Written response.
27.7
Final Notice of Assessment.
27.8
Judicial review.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321, 333.

# Source:
62 FR 42213, Aug. 6, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 27.1
Purpose.
(a) The regulations in this part implement the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 333(c), which authorizes the Secretary
of the Treasury to assess a civil penalty against any person who has misused the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges of the Department of the Treasury or any subdivision thereof in violation of 31 U.S.C. 333(a), in accordance with that section and this part.
(b) The regulations in this part do not apply to the extent that the Secretary or his/her designee has specifically authorized the person to manufacture, produce, sell, possess, or use the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges by written contract, agreement, or letter.
§ 27.2
Definitions.
(a) The term “assessing official” means:
(1) The head of a bureau or other subdivision of the Department of the Treasury who has been delegated the authority to assess civil penalties under 31 U.S.C. 333(c); or
(2) An officer or employee of a bureau or subdivision at the grade of GS-15 or above to whom such authority has been redelegated by the head of such bureau or subdivision.
(b) The term “broadcast” or “telecast” mean widespread dissemination by electronic transmission or method, whether audio and/or visual.
(c) The term “civil penalty” means:
(1) A civil monetary penalty; and
(2) Any other civil or equitable remedy deemed necessary to rectify the potential for a continued misuse or harm from an activity found to have been in violation of 31 U.S.C. 333 or this part.
(d) The term “date of offense” means the later of—
(1) The date that the misuse occurred;
(2) The date that the misuse had the effect of conveying the false impression that the activity was associated with or approved, endorsed, sponsored or authorized by the Department or any of its subdivisions or officers or employees; or
(3) If the violation is a continuing one, the date on which the misuse of the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges protected by this part last occurred.
(e) The term “days” means calendar days, unless otherwise stated.
(f) The term “person” means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, company, business, firm, manufacturer, or any other organization or institution.
§ 27.3
Assessment of civil penalties.
(a)
General rule.
An assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person—
(1) Who uses in connection with, or as a part of, any advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product, whether alone or with other words, letters, symbols, or emblems;
(i) The words “Department of the Treasury,” “Internal Revenue Service,” “Bureau of the Fiscal Service,” “Bureau of Engraving and Printing,” “Comptroller of the Currency,” “Financial Crimes Enforcement Network,” “United States Mint,” “Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau,” or the name of any other service, bureau, office, or subdivision of the Department of the Treasury;
(ii) The titles “Secretary of the Treasury,” “Treasurer of the United States,” “Commissioner of Internal Revenue,” “Commissioner of the Bureau of the Fiscal Service,” “Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing,” “Comptroller of the Currency,” “Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network,” “Director of the United States Mint,” “Administrator of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau,” or the title of any other officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury or subdivision thereof;
(iii) The abbreviations or initials of any entity or title referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, including but not limited to “IRS,” “BFS,” “TTB,” and “FINCEN” or “FinCEN”;
(iv) The words “United States Savings Bond,” including any variation thereof, or the name of any other security, obligation, or financial instrument issued by the Department of the Treasury or any subdivision thereof;
(v) Any symbol, emblem, seal, or badge of an entity referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section (including the design of any envelope, stationery,
or identification card used by such an entity); or
(vi) Any colorable imitation of any such words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbol, emblem, seal, or badge; and
(2) Where such use is in a manner that could reasonably be interpreted or construed as conveying the false impression that such advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product is in any manner approved, endorsed, sponsored, or authorized by, or associated with the Department of the Treasury or any entity referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, or any officer, or employee thereof.
(b)
Disclaimers.
Any determination of whether a person has violated the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be made without regard to any use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government or any particular agency or instrumentality thereof.
(c)
Civil penalty.
An assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of a civil monetary penalty shall not exceed $9,956 (2025) for each and every use of any material in violation of paragraph (a), except that such penalty shall not exceed $49,772 for each and every use if such use is in a broadcast or telecast.
(d)
Time limitations.
(1) Civil penalties imposed under this part must be assessed before the end of the three year period beginning on the date of offense charged.
(2) An assessing official may commence a civil action to recover or enforce any civil penalty imposed in a Final Notice of Assessment issued pursuant to § 27.7 at any time before the end of the two year period beginning on the date of the Final Notice of Assessment. If judicial review of the Final Notice of Assessment is sought, the two year period begins to run from the date that a final and unappealable court order is issued.
(e)
Criminal proceeding.
No civil penalty may be imposed under this part with respect to any violation of paragraph (a) of this section after a criminal proceeding on the same violation has been commenced by indictment or information under 31 U.S.C. 333(d).
[62 FR 42213, Aug. 6, 1997, as amended at 84 FR 3106, Feb. 11, 2019; 84 FR 15956, Apr. 17, 2019; 85 FR 10064, Feb. 21, 2020; 86 FR 12539, Mar. 4, 2021; 88 FR 16886, Mar. 21, 2023; 89 FR 4819, Jan. 25, 2024; 90 FR 25484, June 17, 2025]
§ 27.4
Factors to be considered.
The assessing official will consider relevant factors when determining whether to assess or impose a civil penalty under this part, and the amount of a civil monetary penalty. Those factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) The scope of the misuse;
(b) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;
(c) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;
(d) The circumstances of the misuse; and
(e) The benefit intended to be derived from the misuse.
§ 27.5
Initial Notice of Assessment.
The assessing official shall serve an Initial Notice of Assessment by United States mail or other means upon any person believed to be in violation of § 27.3 and otherwise subject to a civil penalty. The notice shall provide the name and telephone number of an agency officer or employee who can provide information concerning the notice and the provisions of this part, and shall include the following:
(a) A specific reference to the provisions of § 27.3 violated;
(b) A concise statement of the facts that support the conclusion that such a violation occurred;
(c) The amount of the penalty proposed, and/or any other proposed civil or equitable remedy;
(d) A notice informing the person alleged to be in violation of § 27.3 that he/she:
(1) May, within 30 days of the date of the notice, pay the proposed civil monetary penalty and consent to each proposed civil or equitable remedy, thereby waiving the right to make a written response under § 27.6 and to seek judicial review under § 27.8:
(i) By electronic funds transfer (EFT) in accordance with instructions provided in the notice, or
(ii) By means other than EFT only with the written approval of the assessing official;
(2) May make a written response within 30 days of the date of the notice asserting, as appropriate:
(i) Why a civil monetary penalty and/or other civil or equitable remedy should not be imposed;
(ii) Why a civil monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed; and
(iii) Why the terms of a proposed civil or equitable remedy should be modified;
(3) May be represented by an attorney or other representative, provided that a designation of representative signed by the person alleged to be in violation is received by the assessing official; and
(4) May request, within 20 days of the date of the notice, a copy of or opportunity to review any documents and/or other evidence compiled and relied on by the agency in determining to issue the notice (the assessing official reserves the right to assert privileges available under law and may decline to disclose certain documents and/or other evidence); and
(e) The Initial Notice of Assessment shall also inform the person that:
(1) If no written response is received within the time allowed in § 27.6(b), a Final Notice of Assessment may be issued without a presentation by the person;
(2) If a written response has been made and it is deemed necessary, the assessing official may request, orally or in writing, additional information from the respondent;
(3) A Final Notice of Assessment may be issued in accordance with § 27.7 requiring that the civil monetary penalty be paid and compliance with the terms of any other civil or equitable remedy;
(4) A Final Notice of Assessment is subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.;
and
(5) All submissions sent in response to the Initial
Notice of Assessment must be transmitted to the address specified in the notice and include the name, address, and telephone number of the respondent.
§ 27.6
Written response.
(a)(1) A person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment may make a written response explaining why the civil penalty should not be imposed, explaining why a civil monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed and/or explaining why the terms of a proposed civil or equitable remedy should be modified. The written response must provide:
(i) A reference to and specifically identify the Initial Notice of Assessment involved;
(ii) The full name of the person charged;
(iii) If not a natural person, the name and title of the head of the organization charged; and
(iv) If a representative of the person charged is filing the written response, a copy of the duly executed designation as representative.
(2) The written response must admit or deny each violation of § 27.3 charged in the Initial Notice of Assessment. Any charge not specifically denied will be presumed to be admitted. Where a charge is denied, the respondent shall specifically set forth the legal or factual basis upon which the charge is denied. If the basis of the written response is that the person charged is not the person responsible for the misuse(s) charged, the written response must set forth sufficient information to allow the agency to determine the truth of such an assertion. The written response should include any and all documents and/or other information that the respondent believes should be a part of the administrative record on the matter.
(b)
Time.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this paragraph must be received not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment.
(2) If a request for documents or other evidence is made pursuant to § 27.5(d)(4), the written response must be received not later than 20 days after the date of the Department's response to the request.
(3)(i) In computing the number of days allowed for filing a written response under this paragraph, the first day counted is the day after the date of
the Initial Notice of Assessment. If the last date on which the response is required to be filed by this paragraph is a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the response will be due on the next weekday after that date.
(ii) If a response is transmitted by United States mail, it will be deemed timely filed if postmarked on or before the due date.
(4) The assessing official may extend the period for making a written response under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) for good cause shown. Generally, failure to obtain representation in a timely manner will not be considered good cause.
(c)
Filing.
A written response will be considered filed on the date received at the address specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment. The response may be sent by personal delivery, United States mail or commercial delivery. At the discretion of the assessing official, filing may be accomplished by facsimile or any other method deemed appropriate.
(d) The assessing official will fully consider the facts and arguments submitted by the respondent in the written response and any other documents filed pursuant to this paragraph in determining whether to issue a Final Notice of Assessment under § 27.7, the appropriate amount of the civil monetary penalty imposed and the terms of any other appropriate civil or equitable remedy.
§ 27.7
Final Notice of Assessment.
(a) In making a final determination whether to impose a penalty, the assessing official shall take into consideration all available information in the administrative record on the matter, including all information provided in or with a written response timely filed by the respondent and any additional information provided pursuant to § 27.5(e)(2). The assessing official will determine whether:
(1) The facts warrant a conclusion that no violation has occurred; or
(2) The facts warrant a conclusion that one or more violations have occurred; and
(3) The facts and violations found justify the conclusion that a civil penalty should be imposed.
(b) If the assessing official determines that no violation has occurred, the official shall promptly send a letter indicating that determination to the person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment and to any designated representative of such person.
(c)(1) If it has been determined that a violation has occurred, the assessing official shall issue a Final Notice of Assessment to the person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment and to any designated representative of such person.
(2) The assessing official may, in his/her discretion:
(i) Impose a civil monetary penalty and/or any civil or equitable remedy deemed necessary to rectify the potential for a continued misuse or harm from the violation(s);
(ii) Not impose a civil monetary penalty and/or civil or equitable remedy; or
(iii) Impose a civil monetary penalty and/or civil or equitable remedy and condition payment of the civil monetary penalty on the violator's future compliance with 31 U.S.C. 333, this part and any civil or equitable remedy contained in the Final Notice of Assessment. If a civil monetary penalty is imposed, the assessing official shall determine the appropriate amount of the penalty in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 333(c)(2).
(3) The Final Notice of Assessment shall:
(i) Include:
(A) A specific reference to the provisions of § 27.3 found to have been violated;
(B) A concise statement of the facts warranting a conclusion that a violations has occurred;
(C) An analysis of how the facts and violation(s) justify the conclusion that a civil monetary penalty and/or civil or equitable remedy should be imposed; and
(D) The amount of each civil monetary penalty imposed, a statement as to how the amount of each penalty was determined, and the terms of any civil or equitable remedy deemed necessary to rectify the potential for a continued misuse or harm from the violation(s); and
(ii) Inform the person that:
(A) Payment of a civil monetary penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment must be made within 30 days of the date of the notice, and that any civil or equitable remedy imposed must be complied with as provided in the Final Notice of Assessment;
(B) Payment of a civil monetary penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment shall be by EFT in accordance with instructions provided in the notice, unless the assessing official has given written approval to have payment made by other means;
(C) payment of a civil monetary penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment constitutes consent by the person to comply with the terms of any civil or equitable remedy contained in the notice;
(D) If payment of a civil monetary penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment has been waived on the condition that the person comply with the terms of any civil or equitable remedy contained in the notice or comply in the future with 31 U.S.C. 333 and this part, failure by the person to so comply will make the civil monetary penalty payable on demand;
(E) If a civil monetary penalty is not paid within 30 days of the date of the Final Notice of Assessment (or on demand under paragraph (C)(3)(ii)(D) of this sectiion), or if a civil or equitable remedy is not complied with in accordance with the terms of the notice, a civil action to collect the penalty or enforce compliance may be commenced at any time within two years of the date of the Final Notice of Assessment; and
(F) Any civil monetary penalty and civil or equitable remedy imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment may be subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
[62 FR 42213, Aug. 6, 1997; 62 FR 44036, Aug. 18, 1997]
§ 27.8
Judicial review.
A final Notice of Assessment issued under this party may be subject to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
Pt. 28

# PART 28—NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF SEX IN EDUCATION PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

# Subpart A—Introduction
Sec.
28.100
Purpose and effective date.
28.105
Definitions.
28.110
Remedial and affirmative action and self-evaluation.
28.115
Assurance required.
28.120
Transfers of property.
28.125
Effect of other requirements.
28.130
Effect of employment opportunities.
28.135
Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.
28.140
Dissemination of policy.

# Subpart B—Coverage
28.200
Application.
28.205
Educational institutions and other entities controlled by religious organizations.
28.210
Military and merchant marine educational institutions.
28.215
Membership practices of certain organizations.
28.220
Admissions.
28.225
Educational institutions eligible to submit transition plans.
28.230
Transition plans.
28.235
Statutory amendments.

# Subpart C—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Admission and Recruitment Prohibited
28.300
Admission.
28.305
Preference in admission.
28.310
Recruitment.

# Subpart D—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited
28.400
Education programs or activities.
28.405
Housing.
28.410
Comparable facilities.
28.415
Access to course offerings.
28.420
Access to schools operated by LEAs.
28.425
Counseling and use of appraisal and counseling materials.
28.430
Financial assistance.
28.435
Employment assistance to students.
28.440
Health and insurance benefits and services.
28.445
Marital or parental status.
28.450
Athletics.
28.455
Textbooks and curricular material.

# Subpart E—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Employment in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited
28.500
Employment.
28.505
Employment criteria.
28.510
Recruitment.
28.515
Compensation.
28.520
Job classification and structure.
28.525
Fringe benefits.
28.530
Marital or parental status.
28.535
Effect of state or local law or other requirements.
28.540
Advertising.
28.545
Pre-employment inquiries.
28.550
Sex as a bona fide occupational qualification.

# Subpart F—Procedures
28.600
Notice of covered programs.
28.605
Compliance information.
28.610
Conduct of investigations.
28.615
Procedure for effecting compliance.
28.620
Hearings.
28.625
Decisions and notices.
28.630
Judicial review.
28.635
Forms and instructions; coordination.

# Authority:
20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688.

# Source:
65 FR 52865, 52881, Aug. 30, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction
§ 28.100
Purpose and effective date.
The purpose of these Title IX regulations is to effectuate Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (except sections 904 and 906 of those Amendments) (20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688), which is designed to eliminate (with certain exceptions) discrimination on the basis of sex in any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, whether or not such program or activity is offered or sponsored by an educational institution as defined in these Title IX regulations. The effective date of these Title IX regulations shall be September 29, 2000.
§ 28.105
Definitions.
As used in these Title IX regulations, the term:
Administratively separate unit
means a school, department, or college of an educational institution (other than a local educational agency) admission to which is independent of admission to any other component of such institution.
Admission
means selection for part-time, full-time, special, associate, transfer, exchange, or any other enrollment, membership, or matriculation in or at an education program or activity operated by a recipient.
Applicant
means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by an official of the Federal agency that awards Federal financial assistance, or by a recipient, as a condition to becoming a recipient.
Department
means Department of the Treasury.
Designated agency official
means Assistant Secretary for Management and Chief Financial Officer.
Educational institution
means a local educational agency (LEA) as defined by 20 U.S.C. 8801(18), a preschool, a private elementary or secondary school, or an applicant or recipient that is an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education, as defined in this section.
Federal financial assistance
means any of the following, when authorized or extended under a law administered by the Federal agency that awards such assistance:
(1) A grant or loan of Federal financial assistance, including funds made available for:
(i) The acquisition, construction, renovation, restoration, or repair of a building or facility or any portion thereof; and
(ii) Scholarships, loans, grants, wages, or other funds extended to any entity for payment to or on behalf of students admitted to that entity, or extended directly to such students for payment to that entity.
(2) A grant of Federal real or personal property or any interest therein, including surplus property, and the proceeds of the sale or transfer of such property, if the Federal share of the fair market value of the property is not, upon such sale or transfer, properly accounted for to the Federal Government.
(3) Provision of the services of Federal personnel.
(4) Sale or lease of Federal property or any interest therein at nominal consideration, or at consideration reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient or in recognition of public interest to be served thereby, or permission to use Federal property or any interest therein without consideration.
(5) Any other contract, agreement, or arrangement that has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance to any education program or activity, except a contract of insurance or guaranty.
Institution of graduate higher education
means an institution that:
(1) Offers academic study beyond the bachelor of arts or bachelor of science degree, whether or not leading to a certificate of any higher degree in the liberal arts and sciences;
(2) Awards any degree in a professional field beyond the first professional degree (regardless of whether the first professional degree in such field is awarded by an institution of undergraduate higher education or professional education); or
(3) Awards no degree and offers no further academic study, but operates ordinarily for the purpose of facilitating research by persons who have received the highest graduate degree in any field of study.
Institution of professional education
means an institution (except any institution of undergraduate higher education) that offers a program of academic study that leads to a first professional degree in a field for which there is a national specialized accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of Education.
Institution of undergraduate higher education
means:
(1) An institution offering at least two but less than four years of college-level study beyond the high school level, leading to a diploma or an associate degree, or wholly or principally creditable toward a baccalaureate degree; or
(2) An institution offering academic study leading to a baccalaureate degree; or
(3) An agency or body that certifies credentials or offers degrees, but that may or may not offer academic study.
Institution of vocational education
means a school or institution (except an institution of professional or graduate or undergraduate higher education) that has as its primary purpose preparation of students to pursue a technical, skilled, or semiskilled occupation or trade, or to pursue study in a technical field, whether or not the school or institution offers certificates, diplomas, or degrees and whether or not it offers full-time study.
Recipient
means any State or political subdivision thereof, or any instrumentality of a State or political subdivision thereof, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any person, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended directly or through another recipient and that operates an education program or activity that receives such assistance, including any subunit, successor, assignee, or transferee thereof.
Reviewing authority
means that component of the Department delegated authority to review the decisions of hearing officers in cases arising under these Title IX regulations.
Secretary
means Secretary of the Treasury.
Student
means a person who has gained admission.
Title IX
means Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-318, 86 Stat. 235, 373 (codified as amended at 20 U.S.C. 1681-1688) (except sections 904 and 906 thereof), as amended by section 3 of Public Law 93-568, 88 Stat. 1855, by section 412 of the Education Amendments of 1976, Public Law 94-482, 90 Stat. 2234, and by Section 3 of Public Law 100-259, 102 Stat. 28, 28-29 (20 U.S.C. 1681, 1682, 1683, 1685, 1686, 1687, 1688).
Title IX regulations
means the provisions set forth at §§ 28.100 through 28.635.
Transition plan
means a plan subject to the approval of the Secretary of Education pursuant to section 901(a)(2) of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. 1681(a)(2), under which an educational institution operates in making the transition from being an educational institution that admits only students of one sex to being one that admits students of both sexes without discrimination.
[65 FR 52865, 52881, 52882, Aug. 30, 2000]
§ 28.110
Remedial and affirmative action and self-evaluation.
(a)
Remedial action.
If the designated agency official finds that a recipient has discriminated against persons on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, such recipient shall take such remedial action as the designated agency official deems necessary to overcome the effects of such discrimination.
(b)
Affirmative action.
In the absence of a finding of discrimination on the basis of sex in an education program or activity, a recipient may take affirmative action consistent with law to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation therein by persons of a particular sex. Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be interpreted to alter any affirmative action obligations that a recipient may have under Executive Order 11246, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339; as amended by Executive Order 11375, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; as amended by Executive Order 11478, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 803; as amended by Executive Order 12086, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230; as amended by Executive Order 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264.
(c)
Self-evaluation.
Each recipient education institution shall, within one year of September 29, 2000:
(1) Evaluate, in terms of the requirements of these Title IX regulations, its current policies and practices and the effects thereof concerning admission of students, treatment of students, and employment of both academic and non-academic personnel working in connection with the recipient's education program or activity;
(2) Modify any of these policies and practices that do not or may not meet the requirements of these Title IX regulations; and
(3) Take appropriate remedial steps to eliminate the effects of any discrimination that resulted or may have resulted from adherence to these policies and practices.
(d)
Availability of self-evaluation and related materials.
Recipients shall maintain on file for at least three years following completion of the evaluation required under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall provide to the designated agency official upon request, a description of any modifications made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section and of any remedial steps taken pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
§ 28.115
Assurance required.
(a)
General.
Either at the application stage or the award stage, Federal agencies must ensure that applications for Federal financial assistance or awards of Federal financial assistance contain, be accompanied by, or be covered by a specifically identified assurance from the applicant or recipient, satisfactory to the designated agency official, that each education program or activity operated by the applicant or recipient and to which these Title IX regulations apply will be operated in compliance with these Title IX regulations. An assurance of compliance with these Title IX regulations shall not be satisfactory to the designated agency official if the applicant or recipient to whom such assurance applies fails to commit itself to take whatever remedial action is necessary in accordance with § 28.110(a) to eliminate existing discrimination on the basis of sex or to eliminate the effects of past discrimination whether occurring prior to or subsequent to the submission to the designated agency official of such assurance.
(b)
Duration of obligation.
(1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide real property or structures thereon, such assurance shall obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used to provide an education program or activity.
(2) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide personal property, such assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which it retains ownership or possession of the property.
(3) In all other cases such assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended.
(c)
Form.
(1) The assurances required by paragraph (a) of this section, which may be included as part of a document
that addresses other assurances or obligations, shall include that the applicant or recipient will comply with all applicable Federal statutes relating to nondiscrimination. These include but are not limited to: Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1681-1683, 1685-1688).
(2) The designated agency official will specify the extent to which such assurances will be required of the applicant's or recipient's subgrantees, contractors, subcontractors, transferees, or successors in interest.
§ 28.120
Transfers of property.
If a recipient sells or otherwise transfers property financed in whole or in part with Federal financial assistance to a transferee that operates any education program or activity, and the Federal share of the fair market value of the property is not upon such sale or transfer properly accounted for to the Federal Government, both the transferor and the transferee shall be deemed to be recipients, subject to the provisions of §§ 28.205 through 28.235(a).
§ 28.125
Effect of other requirements.
(a)
Effect of other Federal provisions.
The obligations imposed by these Title IX regulations are independent of, and do not alter, obligations not to discriminate on the basis of sex imposed by Executive Order 11246, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339; as amended by Executive Order 11375, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 684; as amended by Executive Order 11478, 3 CFR, 1966-1970 Comp., p. 803; as amended by Executive Order 12087, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 230; as amended by Executive Order 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264; sections 704 and 855 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 295m, 298b-2); Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e
et seq.
); the Equal Pay Act of 1963 (29 U.S.C. 206); and any other Act of Congress or Federal regulation.
(b)
Effect of State or local law or other requirements.
The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated by any State or local law or other requirement that would render any applicant or student ineligible, or limit the eligibility of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, to practice any occupation or profession.
(c)
Effect of rules or regulations of private organizations.
The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated by any rule or regulation of any organization, club, athletic or other league, or association that would render any applicant or student ineligible to participate or limit the eligibility or participation of any applicant or student, on the basis of sex, in any education program or activity operated by a recipient and that receives Federal financial assistance.
§ 28.130
Effect of employment opportunities.
The obligation to comply with these Title IX regulations is not obviated or alleviated because employment opportunities in any occupation or profession are or may be more limited for members of one sex than for members of the other sex.
§ 28.135
Designation of responsible employee and adoption of grievance procedures.
(a)
Designation of responsible employee.
Each recipient shall designate at least one employee to coordinate its efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under these Title IX regulations, including any investigation of any complaint communicated to such recipient alleging its noncompliance with these Title IX regulations or alleging any actions that would be prohibited by these Title IX regulations. The recipient shall notify all its students and employees of the name, office address, and telephone number of the employee or employees appointed pursuant to this paragraph.
(b)
Complaint procedure of recipient.
A recipient shall adopt and publish grievance procedures providing for prompt and equitable resolution of student and employee complaints alleging any action that would be prohibited by these Title IX regulations.
§ 28.140
Dissemination of policy.
(a)
Notification of policy.
(1) Each recipient shall implement specific and continuing steps to notify applicants
for admission and employment, students and parents of elementary and secondary school students, employees, sources of referral of applicants for admission and employment, and all unions or professional organizations holding collective bargaining or professional agreements with the recipient, that it does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the educational programs or activities that it operates, and that it is required by Title IX and these Title IX regulations not to discriminate in such a manner. Such notification shall contain such information, and be made in such manner, as the designated agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title IX and these Title IX regulations, but shall state at least that the requirement not to discriminate in education programs or activities extends to employment therein, and to admission thereto unless §§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply to the recipient, and that inquiries concerning the application of Title IX and these Title IX regulations to such recipient may be referred to the employee designated pursuant to § 28.135, or to the designated agency official.
(2) Each recipient shall make the initial notification required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section within 90 days of September 29, 2000 or of the date these Title IX regulations first apply to such recipient, whichever comes later, which notification shall include publication in:
(i) Newspapers and magazines operated by such recipient or by student, alumnae, or alumni groups for or in connection with such recipient; and
(ii) Memoranda or other written communications distributed to every student and employee of such recipient.
(b)
Publications.
(1) Each recipient shall prominently include a statement of the policy described in paragraph (a) of this section in each announcement, bulletin, catalog, or application form that it makes available to any person of a type, described in paragraph (a) of this section, or which is otherwise used in connection with the recruitment of students or employees.
(2) A recipient shall not use or distribute a publication of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that suggests, by text or illustration, that such recipient treats applicants, students, or employees differently on the basis of sex except as such treatment is permitted by these Title IX regulations.
(c)
Distribution.
Each recipient shall distribute without discrimination on the basis of sex each publication described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and shall apprise each of its admission and employment recruitment representatives of the policy of nondiscrimination described in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall require such representatives to adhere to such policy.

# Subpart B—Coverage
§ 28.200
Application.
Except as provided in §§ 28.205 through 28.235(a), these Title IX regulations apply to every recipient and to each education program or activity operated by such recipient that receives Federal financial assistance.
§ 28.205
Educational institutions and other entities controlled by religious organizations.
(a)
Exemption.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to any operation of an educational institution or other entity that is controlled by a religious organization to the extent that application of these Title IX regulations would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
(b)
Exemption claims.
An educational institution or other entity that wishes to claim the exemption set forth in paragraph (a) of this section shall do so by submitting in writing to the designated agency official a statement by the highest-ranking official of the institution, identifying the provisions of these Title IX regulations that conflict with a specific tenet of the religious organization.
§ 28.210
Military and merchant marine educational institutions.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to an educational institution whose primary purpose is the training of individuals for a military service of
the United States or for the merchant marine.
§ 28.215
Membership practices of certain organizations.
(a)
Social fraternities and sororities.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of social fraternities and sororities that are exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. 501(a), the active membership of which consists primarily of students in attendance at institutions of higher education.
(b)
YMCA, YWCA, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), the Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts, and Camp Fire Girls.
(c)
Voluntary youth service organizations.
These Title IX regulations do not apply to the membership practices of a voluntary youth service organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. 501(a), and the membership of which has been traditionally limited to members of one sex and principally to persons of less than nineteen years of age.
§ 28.220
Admissions.
(a) Admissions to educational institutions prior to June 24, 1973, are not covered by these Title IX regulations.
(b)
Administratively separate units.
For the purposes only of this section, §§ 28.225 and 28.230, and §§ 28.300 through 28.310, each administratively separate unit shall be deemed to be an educational institution.
(c)
Application of §§ 28.300 through .310.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply to each recipient. A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.
(d)
Educational institutions.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section as to recipients that are educational institutions, §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply only to institutions of vocational education, professional education, graduate higher education, and public institutions of undergraduate higher education.
(e)
Public institutions of undergraduate higher education.
§§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply to any public institution of undergraduate higher education that traditionally and continually from its establishment has had a policy of admitting students of only one sex.
§ 28.225
Educational institutions eligible to submit transition plans.
(a)
Application.
This section applies to each educational institution to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply that:
(1) Admitted students of only one sex as regular students as of June 23, 1972; or
(2) Admitted students of only one sex as regular students as of June 23, 1965, but thereafter admitted, as regular students, students of the sex not admitted prior to June 23, 1965.
(b)
Provision for transition plans.
An educational institution to which this section applies shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in admission or recruitment in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.
§ 28.230
Transition plans.
(a)
Submission of plans.
An institution to which § 28.225 applies and that is composed of more than one administratively separate unit may submit either a single transition plan applicable to all such units, or a separate transition plan applicable to each such unit.
(b)
Content of plans.
In order to be approved by the Secretary of Education, a transition plan shall:
(1) State the name, address, and Federal Interagency Committee on Education Code of the educational institution submitting such plan, the administratively separate units to which the plan is applicable, and the name, address, and telephone number of the person to whom questions concerning the plan may be addressed. The person who submits the plan shall be the chief administrator or president of the institution, or another individual legally authorized to bind the institution to all actions set forth in the plan.
(2) State whether the educational institution or administratively separate unit admits students of both sexes as regular students and, if so, when it began to do so.
(3) Identify and describe with respect to the educational institution or administratively separate unit any obstacles to admitting students without discrimination on the basis of sex.
(4) Describe in detail the steps necessary to eliminate as soon as practicable each obstacle so identified and indicate the schedule for taking these steps and the individual directly responsible for their implementation.
(5) Include estimates of the number of students, by sex, expected to apply for, be admitted to, and enter each class during the period covered by the plan.
(c)
Nondiscrimination.
No policy or practice of a recipient to which § 28.225 applies shall result in treatment of applicants to or students of such recipient in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310 unless such treatment is necessitated by an obstacle identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and a schedule for eliminating that obstacle has been provided as required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(d)
Effects of past exclusion.
To overcome the effects of past exclusion of students on the basis of sex, each educational institution to which § 28.225 applies shall include in its transition plan, and shall implement, specific steps designed to encourage individuals of the previously excluded sex to apply for admission to such institution. Such steps shall include instituting recruitment programs that emphasize the institution's commitment to enrolling students of the sex previously excluded.
§ 28.235
Statutory amendments.
(a) This section, which applies to all provisions of these Title IX regulations, addresses statutory amendments to Title IX.
(b) These Title IX regulations shall not apply to or preclude:
(1) Any program or activity of the American Legion undertaken in connection with the organization or operation of any Boys State conference, Boys Nation conference, Girls State conference, or Girls Nation conference;
(2) Any program or activity of a secondary school or educational institution specifically for:
(i) The promotion of any Boys State conference, Boys Nation conference, Girls State conference, or Girls Nation conference; or
(ii) The selection of students to attend any such conference;
(3) Father-son or mother-daughter activities at an educational institution or in an education program or activity, but if such activities are provided for students of one sex, opportunities for reasonably comparable activities shall be provided to students of the other sex;
(4) Any scholarship or other financial assistance awarded by an institution of higher education to an individual because such individual has received such award in a single-sex pageant based upon a combination of factors related to the individual's personal appearance, poise, and talent. The pageant, however, must comply with other nondiscrimination provisions of Federal law.
(c)
Program or activity
or
program
means:
(1) All of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:
(i)(A) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or
(B) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;
(ii)(A) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or
(B) A local educational agency (as defined in section 8801 of title 20), system of vocational education, or other school system;
(iii)(A) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—
(
1
) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or
(
2
) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or
(B) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or
(iv) Any other entity that is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2)(i)
Program or activity
does not include any operation of an entity that is controlled by a religious organization if the application of 20 U.S.C. 1681 to such operation would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.
(ii) For example, all of the operations of a college, university, or other postsecondary institution, including but not limited to traditional educational operations, faculty and student housing, campus shuttle bus service, campus restaurants, the bookstore, and other commercial activities are part of a “program or activity” subject to these Title IX regulations if the college, university, or other institution receives Federal financial assistance.
(d)(1) Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be construed to require or prohibit any person, or public or private entity, to provide or pay for any benefit or service, including the use of facilities, related to an abortion. Medical procedures, benefits, services, and the use of facilities, necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman or to address complications related to an abortion are not subject to this section.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit a penalty to be imposed on any person or individual because such person or individual is seeking or has received any benefit or service related to a legal abortion. Accordingly, subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, no person shall be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, employment, or other educational program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance because such individual has sought or received, or is seeking, a legal abortion, or any benefit or service related to a legal abortion.

# Subpart C—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Admission and Recruitment Prohibited
§ 28.300
Admission.
(a)
General.
No person shall, on the basis of sex, be denied admission, or be subjected to discrimination in admission, by any recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply, except as provided in §§ 28.225 and 28.230.
(b)
Specific prohibitions.
(1) In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not:
(i) Give preference to one person over another on the basis of sex, by ranking applicants separately on such basis, or otherwise;
(ii) Apply numerical limitations upon the number or proportion of persons of either sex who may be admitted; or
(iii) Otherwise treat one individual differently from another on the basis of sex.
(2) A recipient shall not administer or operate any test or other criterion for admission that has a disproportionately adverse effect on persons on the basis of sex unless the use of such test or criterion is shown to predict validly success in the education program or activity in question and alternative tests or criteria that do not have such a disproportionately adverse effect are shown to be unavailable.
(c)
Prohibitions relating to marital or parental status.
In determining whether a person satisfies any policy or criterion for admission, or in making any offer of admission, a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply:
(1) Shall not apply any rule concerning the actual or potential parental, family, or marital status of a student or applicant that treats persons differently on the basis of sex;
(2) Shall not discriminate against or exclude any person on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom, or establish or follow any rule or practice that so discriminates or excludes;
(3) Subject to § 28.235(d), shall treat disabilities related to pregnancy, childbirth, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disability or physical condition; and
(4) Shall not make pre-admission inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for admission, including whether such applicant is “Miss” or “Mrs.” A recipient may make pre-admission inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for admission, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations.
§ 28.305
Preference in admission.
A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not give preference to applicants for admission, on the basis of attendance at any educational institution or other school or entity that admits as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if the giving of such preference has the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.
§ 28.310
Recruitment.
(a)
Nondiscriminatory recruitment.
A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and admission of students. A recipient may be required to undertake additional recruitment efforts for one sex as remedial action pursuant to § 28.110(a), and may choose to undertake such efforts as affirmative action pursuant to § 28.110(b).
(b)
Recruitment at certain institutions.
A recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 apply shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at educational institutions, schools, or entities that admit as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 28.300 through 28.310.

# Subpart D—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited
§ 28.400
Education programs or activities.
(a)
General.
Except as provided elsewhere in these Title IX regulations, no person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any academic, extracurricular, research, occupational training, or other education program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance. Sections 28.400 through 28.455 do not apply to actions of a recipient in connection with admission of its students to an education program or activity of a recipient to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 do not apply, or an entity, not a recipient, to which §§ 28.300 through 28.310 would not apply if the entity were a recipient.
(b)
Specific prohibitions.
Except as provided in §§ 28.400 through 28.455, in providing any aid, benefit, or service to a student, a recipient shall not, on the basis of sex:
(1) Treat one person differently from another in determining whether such person satisfies any requirement or condition for the provision of such aid, benefit, or service;
(2) Provide different aid, benefits, or services or provide aid, benefits, or services in a different manner;
(3) Deny any person any such aid, benefit, or service;
(4) Subject any person to separate or different rules of behavior, sanctions, or other treatment;
(5) Apply any rule concerning the domicile or residence of a student or applicant, including eligibility for in-state fees and tuition;
(6) Aid or perpetuate discrimination against any person by providing significant assistance to any agency, organization, or person that discriminates on the basis of sex in providing any aid, benefit, or service to students or employees;
(7) Otherwise limit any person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity.
(c)
Assistance administered by a recipient educational institution to study at a foreign institution.
A recipient educational institution may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other awards established by foreign or domestic wills, trusts, or similar legal instruments, or by acts of foreign governments and restricted to members of one sex, that are designed to provide opportunities to study abroad, and that are awarded to students who are already matriculating at or who are graduates of the recipient institution;
Provided,
that a recipient educational institution that administers or assists in the administration of such scholarships, fellowships, or other awards that are restricted to members of one sex provides, or otherwise makes available, reasonable opportunities for similar studies for members of the other sex. Such opportunities may be derived from either domestic or foreign sources.
(d)
Aids, benefits or services not provided by recipient.
(1) This paragraph (d) applies to any recipient that requires participation by any applicant, student, or employee in any education program or activity not operated wholly by such recipient, or that facilitates, permits, or considers such participation as part of or equivalent to an education program or activity operated by such recipient, including participation in educational consortia and cooperative employment and student-teaching assignments.
(2) Such recipient:
(i) Shall develop and implement a procedure designed to assure itself that the operator or sponsor of such other education program or activity takes no action affecting any applicant, student, or employee of such recipient that these Title IX regulations would prohibit such recipient from taking; and
(ii) Shall not facilitate, require, permit, or consider such participation if such action occurs.
§ 28.405
Housing.
(a)
Generally.
A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, apply different rules or regulations, impose different fees or requirements, or offer different services or benefits related to housing, except as provided in this section (including housing provided only to married students).
(b)
Housing provided by recipient.
(1) A recipient may provide separate housing on the basis of sex.
(2) Housing provided by a recipient to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, shall be as a whole:
(i) Proportionate in quantity to the number of students of that sex applying for such housing; and
(ii) Comparable in quality and cost to the student.
(c)
Other housing.
(1) A recipient shall not, on the basis of sex, administer different policies or practices concerning occupancy by its students of housing other than that provided by such recipient.
(2)(i) A recipient which, through solicitation, listing, approval of housing, or otherwise, assists any agency, organization, or person in making housing available to any of its students, shall take such reasonable action as may be necessary to assure itself that such housing as is provided to students of one sex, when compared to that provided to students of the other sex, is as a whole:
(A) Proportionate in quantity; and
(B) Comparable in quality and cost to the student.
(ii) A recipient may render such assistance to any agency, organization, or person that provides all or part of such housing to students of only one sex.
§ 28.410
Comparable facilities.
A recipient may provide separate toilet, locker room, and shower facilities on the basis of sex, but such facilities provided for students of one sex shall be comparable to such facilities provided for students of the other sex.
§ 28.415
Access to course offerings.
(a) A recipient shall not provide any course or otherwise carry out any of its education program or activity separately on the basis of sex, or require or refuse participation therein by any of its students on such basis, including
health, physical education, industrial, business, vocational, technical, home economics, music, and adult education courses.
(b)(1) With respect to classes and activities in physical education at the elementary school level, the recipient shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from September 29, 2000. With respect to physical education classes and activities at the secondary and post-secondary levels, the recipient shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from September 29, 2000.
(2) This section does not prohibit grouping of students in physical education classes and activities by ability as assessed by objective standards of individual performance developed and applied without regard to sex.
(3) This section does not prohibit separation of students by sex within physical education classes or activities during participation in wrestling, boxing, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball, and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
(4) Where use of a single standard of measuring skill or progress in a physical education class has an adverse effect on members of one sex, the recipient shall use appropriate standards that do not have such effect.
(5) Portions of classes in elementary and secondary schools, or portions of education programs or activities, that deal exclusively with human sexuality may be conducted in separate sessions for boys and girls.
(6) Recipients may make requirements based on vocal range or quality that may result in a chorus or choruses of one or predominantly one sex.
§ 28.420
Access to schools operated by LEAs.
A recipient that is a local educational agency shall not, on the basis of sex, exclude any person from admission to:
(a) Any institution of vocational education operated by such recipient; or
(b) Any other school or educational unit operated by such recipient, unless such recipient otherwise makes available to such person, pursuant to the same policies and criteria of admission, courses, services, and facilities comparable to each course, service, and facility offered in or through such schools.
§ 28.425
Counseling and use of appraisal and counseling materials.
(a)
Counseling.
A recipient shall not discriminate against any person on the basis of sex in the counseling or guidance of students or applicants for admission.
(b)
Use of appraisal and counseling materials.
A recipient that uses testing or other materials for appraising or counseling students shall not use different materials for students on the basis of their sex or use materials that permit or require different treatment of students on such basis unless such different materials cover the same occupations and interest areas and the use of such different materials is shown to be essential to eliminate sex bias. Recipients shall develop and use internal procedures for ensuring that such materials do not discriminate on the basis of sex. Where the use of a counseling test or other instrument results in a substantially disproportionate number of members of one sex in any particular course of study or classification, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination in the instrument or its application.
(c)
Disproportion in classes.
Where a recipient finds that a particular class contains a substantially disproportionate number of individuals of one sex, the recipient shall take such action as is necessary to assure itself that such disproportion is not the result of discrimination on the basis of sex in counseling or appraisal materials or by counselors.
§ 28.430
Financial assistance.
(a)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, in providing financial assistance to any of its students, a recipient shall not:
(1) On the basis of sex, provide different amounts or types of such assistance, limit eligibility for such assistance that is of any particular type or
source, apply different criteria, or otherwise discriminate;
(2) Through solicitation, listing, approval, provision of facilities, or other services, assist any foundation, trust, agency, organization, or person that provides assistance to any of such recipient's students in a manner that discriminates on the basis of sex; or
(3) Apply any rule or assist in application of any rule concerning eligibility for such assistance that treats persons of one sex differently from persons of the other sex with regard to marital or parental status.
(b)
Financial aid established by certain legal instruments.
(1) A recipient may administer or assist in the administration of scholarships, fellowships, or other forms of financial assistance established pursuant to domestic or foreign wills, trusts, bequests, or similar legal instruments or by acts of a foreign government that require that awards be made to members of a particular sex specified therein;
Provided,
that the overall effect of the award of such sex-restricted scholarships, fellowships, and other forms of financial assistance does not discriminate on the basis of sex.
(2) To ensure nondiscriminatory awards of assistance as required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, recipients shall develop and use procedures under which:
(i) Students are selected for award of financial assistance on the basis of nondiscriminatory criteria and not on the basis of availability of funds restricted to members of a particular sex;
(ii) An appropriate sex-restricted scholarship, fellowship, or other form of financial assistance is allocated to each student selected under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iii) No student is denied the award for which he or she was selected under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section because of the absence of a scholarship, fellowship, or other form of financial assistance designated for a member of that student's sex.
(c)
Athletic scholarships.
(1) To the extent that a recipient awards athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid, it must provide reasonable opportunities for such awards for members of each sex in proportion to the number of students of each sex participating in interscholastic or intercollegiate athletics.
(2) A recipient may provide separate athletic scholarships or grants-in-aid for members of each sex as part of separate athletic teams for members of each sex to the extent consistent with this paragraph (c) and § 28.450.
§ 28.435
Employment assistance to students.
(a)
Assistance by recipient in making available outside employment.
A recipient that assists any agency, organization, or person in making employment available to any of its students:
(1) Shall assure itself that such employment is made available without discrimination on the basis of sex; and
(2) Shall not render such services to any agency, organization, or person that discriminates on the basis of sex in its employment practices.
(b)
Employment of students by recipients.
A recipient that employs any of its students shall not do so in a manner that violates §§ 28.500 through 28.550.
§ 28.440
Health and insurance benefits and services.
Subject to § 28.235(d), in providing a medical, hospital, accident, or life insurance benefit, service, policy, or plan to any of its students, a recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex, or provide such benefit, service, policy, or plan in a manner that would violate §§ 28.500 through 28.550 if it were provided to employees of the recipient. This section shall not prohibit a recipient from providing any benefit or service that may be used by a different proportion of students of one sex than of the other, including family planning services. However, any recipient that provides full coverage health service shall provide gynecological care.
§ 28.445
Marital or parental status.
(a)
Status generally.
A recipient shall not apply any rule concerning a student's actual or potential parental, family, or marital status that treats students differently on the basis of sex.
(b)
Pregnancy and related conditions.
(1) A recipient shall not discriminate against any student, or exclude any student from its education program or
activity, including any class or extracurricular activity, on the basis of such student's pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom, unless the student requests voluntarily to participate in a separate portion of the program or activity of the recipient.
(2) A recipient may require such a student to obtain the certification of a physician that the student is physically and emotionally able to continue participation as long as such a certification is required of all students for other physical or emotional conditions requiring the attention of a physician.
(3) A recipient that operates a portion of its education program or activity separately for pregnant students, admittance to which is completely voluntary on the part of the student as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall ensure that the separate portion is comparable to that offered to non-pregnant students.
(4) Subject to § 28.235(d), a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery therefrom in the same manner and under the same policies as any other temporary disability with respect to any medical or hospital benefit, service, plan, or policy that such recipient administers, operates, offers, or participates in with respect to students admitted to the recipient's educational program or activity.
(5) In the case of a recipient that does not maintain a leave policy for its students, or in the case of a student who does not otherwise qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence for as long a period of time as is deemed medically necessary by the student's physician, at the conclusion of which the student shall be reinstated to the status that she held when the leave began.
§ 28.450
Athletics.
(a)
General.
No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, be treated differently from another person, or otherwise be discriminated against in any interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics offered by a recipient, and no recipient shall provide any such athletics separately on such basis.
(b)
Separate teams.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient may operate or sponsor separate teams for members of each sex where selection for such teams is based upon competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport. However, where a recipient operates or sponsors a team in a particular sport for members of one sex but operates or sponsors no such team for members of the other sex, and athletic opportunities for members of that sex have previously been limited, members of the excluded sex must be allowed to try out for the team offered unless the sport involved is a contact sport. For the purposes of these Title IX regulations, contact sports include boxing, wrestling, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball, and other sports the purpose or major activity of which involves bodily contact.
(c)
Equal opportunity.
(1) A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics shall provide equal athletic opportunity for members of both sexes. In determining whether equal opportunities are available, the designated agency official will consider, among other factors:
(i) Whether the selection of sports and levels of competition effectively accommodate the interests and abilities of members of both sexes;
(ii) The provision of equipment and supplies;
(iii) Scheduling of games and practice time;
(iv) Travel and per diem allowance;
(v) Opportunity to receive coaching and academic tutoring;
(vi) Assignment and compensation of coaches and tutors;
(vii) Provision of locker rooms, practice, and competitive facilities;
(viii) Provision of medical and training facilities and services;
(ix) Provision of housing and dining facilities and services;
(x) Publicity.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unequal aggregate expenditures for members of each sex or unequal expenditures for male and female teams if a recipient operates or sponsors separate teams will not constitute noncompliance with this section, but the designated agency official may consider the failure to provide necessary funds for teams for one sex in assessing equality of opportunity for members of each sex.
(d)
Adjustment period.
A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics at the elementary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from September 29, 2000. A recipient that operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club, or intramural athletics at the secondary or postsecondary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from September 29, 2000.
§ 28.455
Textbooks and curricular material.
Nothing in these Title IX regulations shall be interpreted as requiring or prohibiting or abridging in any way the use of particular textbooks or curricular materials.

# Subpart E—Discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Employment in Education Programs or Activities Prohibited
§ 28.500
Employment.
(a)
General.
(1) No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in employment, or recruitment, consideration, or selection therefor, whether full-time or part-time, under any education program or activity operated by a recipient that receives Federal financial assistance.
(2) A recipient shall make all employment decisions in any education program or activity operated by such recipient in a nondiscriminatory manner and shall not limit, segregate, or classify applicants or employees in any way that could adversely affect any applicant's or employee's employment opportunities or status because of sex.
(3) A recipient shall not enter into any contractual or other relationship which directly or indirectly has the effect of subjecting employees or students to discrimination prohibited by §§ 28.500 through 28.550, including relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions, and with organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient.
(4) A recipient shall not grant preferences to applicants for employment on the basis of attendance at any educational institution or entity that admits as students only or predominantly members of one sex, if the giving of such preferences has the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of these Title IX regulations.
(b)
Application.
The provisions of §§ 28.500 through 28.550 apply to:
(1) Recruitment, advertising, and the process of application for employment;
(2) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, consideration for and award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, application of nepotism policies, right of return from layoff, and rehiring;
(3) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation, and changes in compensation;
(4) Job assignments, classifications, and structure, including position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists;
(5) The terms of any collective bargaining agreement;
(6) Granting and return from leaves of absence, leave for pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, leave for persons of either sex to care for children or dependents, or any other leave;
(7) Fringe benefits available by virtue of employment, whether or not administered by the recipient;
(8) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, selection for tuition assistance, selection for sabbaticals and leaves of absence to pursue training;
(9) Employer-sponsored activities, including social or recreational programs; and
(10) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment.
§ 28.505
Employment criteria.
A recipient shall not administer or operate any test or other criterion for any employment opportunity that has a disproportionately adverse effect on persons on the basis of sex unless:
(a) Use of such test or other criterion is shown to predict validly successful performance in the position in question; and
(b) Alternative tests or criteria for such purpose, which do not have such disproportionately adverse effect, are shown to be unavailable.
§ 28.510
Recruitment.
(a)
Nondiscriminatory recruitment and hiring.
A recipient shall not discriminate on the basis of sex in the recruitment and hiring of employees. Where a recipient has been found to be presently discriminating on the basis of sex in the recruitment or hiring of employees, or has been found to have so discriminated in the past, the recipient shall recruit members of the sex so discriminated against so as to overcome the effects of such past or present discrimination.
(b)
Recruitment patterns.
A recipient shall not recruit primarily or exclusively at entities that furnish as applicants only or predominantly members of one sex if such actions have the effect of discriminating on the basis of sex in violation of §§ 28.500 through 28.550.
§ 28.515
Compensation.
A recipient shall not make or enforce any policy or practice that, on the basis of sex:
(a) Makes distinctions in rates of pay or other compensation;
(b) Results in the payment of wages to employees of one sex at a rate less than that paid to employees of the opposite sex for equal work on jobs the performance of which requires equal skill, effort, and responsibility, and that are performed under similar working conditions.
§ 28.520
Job classification and structure.
A recipient shall not:
(a) Classify a job as being for males or for females;
(b) Maintain or establish separate lines of progression, seniority lists, career ladders, or tenure systems based on sex; or
(c) Maintain or establish separate lines of progression, seniority systems, career ladders, or tenure systems for similar jobs, position descriptions, or job requirements that classify persons on the basis of sex, unless sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for the positions in question as set forth in § 28.550.
§ 28.525
Fringe benefits.
(a)
“Fringe benefits” defined.
For purposes of these Title IX regulations,
fringe benefits
means: Any medical, hospital, accident, life insurance, or retirement benefit, service, policy or plan, any profit-sharing or bonus plan, leave, and any other benefit or service of employment not subject to the provision of § 28.515.
(b)
Prohibitions.
A recipient shall not:
(1) Discriminate on the basis of sex with regard to making fringe benefits available to employees or make fringe benefits available to spouses, families, or dependents of employees differently upon the basis of the employee's sex;
(2) Administer, operate, offer, or participate in a fringe benefit plan that does not provide for equal periodic benefits for members of each sex and for equal contributions to the plan by such recipient for members of each sex; or
(3) Administer, operate, offer, or participate in a pension or retirement plan that establishes different optional or compulsory retirement ages based on sex or that otherwise discriminates in benefits on the basis of sex.
§ 28.530
Marital or parental status.
(a)
General.
A recipient shall not apply any policy or take any employment action:
(1) Concerning the potential marital, parental, or family status of an employee or applicant for employment that treats persons differently on the basis of sex; or
(2) Which is based upon whether an employee or applicant for employment is the head of household or principal wage earner in such employee's or applicant's family unit.
(b)
Pregnancy.
A recipient shall not discriminate against or exclude from employment any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, or recovery therefrom.
(c)
Pregnancy as a temporary disability.
Subject to § 28.235(d), a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, recovery therefrom, and any temporary disability resulting therefrom as any other temporary disability for all job-related purposes, including commencement, duration, and extensions of leave, payment of disability income, accrual of seniority and any other benefit or service, and reinstatement, and under any fringe benefit offered to employees by virtue of employment.
(d)
Pregnancy leave.
In the case of a recipient that does not maintain a leave policy for its employees, or in the case of an employee with insufficient leave or accrued employment time to qualify for leave under such a policy, a recipient shall treat pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom as a justification for a leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time, at the conclusion of which the employee shall be reinstated to the status that she held when the leave began or to a comparable position, without decrease in rate of compensation or loss of promotional opportunities, or any other right or privilege of employment.
§ 28.535
Effect of state or local law or other requirements.
(a)
Prohibitory requirements.
The obligation to comply with §§ 28.500 through 28.550 is not obviated or alleviated by the existence of any State or local law or other requirement that imposes prohibitions or limits upon employment of members of one sex that are not imposed upon members of the other sex.
(b)
Benefits.
A recipient that provides any compensation, service, or benefit to members of one sex pursuant to a State or local law or other requirement shall provide the same compensation, service, or benefit to members of the other sex.
§ 28.540
Advertising.
A recipient shall not in any advertising related to employment indicate preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination based on sex unless sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for the particular job in question.
§ 28.545
Pre-employment inquiries.
(a)
Marital status.
A recipient shall not make pre-employment inquiry as to the marital status of an applicant for employment, including whether such applicant is “Miss” or “Mrs.”
(b)
Sex.
A recipient may make pre-employment inquiry as to the sex of an applicant for employment, but only if such inquiry is made equally of such applicants of both sexes and if the results of such inquiry are not used in connection with discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations.
§ 28.550
Sex as a bona fide occupational qualification.
A recipient may take action otherwise prohibited by §§ 28.500 through 28.550 provided it is shown that sex is a bona fide occupational qualification for that action, such that consideration of sex with regard to such action is essential to successful operation of the employment function concerned. A recipient shall not take action pursuant to this section that is based upon alleged comparative employment characteristics or stereotyped characterizations of one or the other sex, or upon preference based on sex of the recipient, employees, students, or other persons, but nothing contained in this section shall prevent a recipient from considering an employee's sex in relation to employment in a locker room or toilet facility used only by members of one sex.

# Subpart F—Procedures
§ 28.600
Notice of covered programs.
Within 60 days of September 29, 2000, each Federal agency that awards Federal financial assistance shall publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of
the programs covered by these Title IX regulations. Each such Federal agency shall periodically republish the notice of covered programs to reflect changes in covered programs. Copies of this notice also shall be made available upon request to the Federal agency's office that enforces Title IX.
§ 28.605
Compliance information.
(a)
Cooperation and assistance.
The designated agency official shall to the fullest extent practicable seek the cooperation of recipients in obtaining compliance with these Title IX regulations and shall provide assistance and guidance to recipients to help them comply voluntarily with these Title IX regulations.
(b)
Compliance reports.
Each recipient shall keep such records and submit to the designated agency official (or designee) timely, complete, and accurate compliance reports at such times, and in such form and containing such information, as the designated agency official (or designee) may determine to be necessary to enable the official to ascertain whether the recipient has complied or is complying with these Title IX regulations. In the case of any program under which a primary recipient extends Federal financial assistance to any other recipient, such other recipient shall also submit such compliance reports to the primary recipient as may be necessary to enable the primary recipient to carry out its obligations under these Title IX regulations.
(c)
Access to sources of information.
Each recipient shall permit access by the designated agency official (or designee) during normal business hours to such of its books, records, accounts, and other sources of information, and its facilities as may be pertinent to ascertain compliance with these Title IX regulations. Where any information required of a recipient is in the exclusive possession of any other agency, institution or person and this agency, institution or person shall fail or refuse to furnish this information the recipient shall so certify in its report and shall set forth what efforts it has made to obtain the information. Asserted considerations of privacy or confidentiality may not operate to bar the Department from evaluating or seeking to enforce compliance with these Title IX regulations. Information of a confidential nature obtained in connection with compliance evaluation or enforcement shall not be disclosed except where necessary in formal enforcement proceedings or where otherwise required by law.
(d)
Information to beneficiaries and participants.
Each recipient shall make available to participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of these Title IX regulations and their applicability to the program for which the recipient receives Federal financial assistance, and make such information available to them in such manner, as the designated agency official finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by Title IX and these Title IX regulations.
[65 FR 52882, Aug. 30, 2000]
§ 28.610
Conduct of investigations.
(a)
Periodic compliance reviews.
The designated agency official (or designee) shall from time to time review the practices of recipients to determine whether they are complying with these Title IX regulations.
(b)
Complaints.
Any person who believes himself or herself or any specific class of individuals to be subjected to discrimination prohibited by these Title IX regulations may by himself or herself or by a representative file with the designated agency official (or designee) a written complaint. A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated agency official (or designee).
(c)
Investigations.
The designated agency official (or designee) will make a prompt investigation whenever a compliance review, report, complaint, or any other information indicates a possible failure to comply with these Title IX regulations. The investigation should include, where appropriate, a review of the pertinent practices and policies of the recipient, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with these Title IX regulations occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to
whether the recipient has failed to comply with these Title IX regulations.
(d)
Resolution of matters.
(1) If an investigation pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section indicates a failure to comply with these Title IX regulations, the designated agency official (or designee) will so inform the recipient and the matter will be resolved by informal means whenever possible. If it has been determined that the matter cannot be resolved by informal means, action will be taken as provided for in § 28.615.
(2) If an investigation does not warrant action pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section the designated agency official (or designee) will so inform the recipient and the complainant, if any, in writing.
(e)
Intimidatory or retaliatory acts prohibited.
No recipient or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by Title IX or these Title IX regulations, or because he or she has made a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under these Title IX regulations. The identity of complainants shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of these Title IX regulations, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding arising under these Title IX regulations.
[65 FR 52882, Aug. 30, 2000]
§ 28.615
Procedure for effecting compliance.
(a)
General.
If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with these Title IX regulations, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with these Title IX regulations may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance or by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not limited to:
(1) A reference to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States, or any assurance or other contractual undertaking; and
(2) Any applicable proceeding under State or local law.
(b)
Noncompliance with § 28.115.
If an applicant fails or refuses to furnish an assurance or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to § 28.115, Federal financial assistance may be refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. The Department shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under paragraph (c) of this section except that the Department shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance is due and payable pursuant to an application therefor approved prior to September 29, 2000.
(c)
Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance.
(1) No order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance shall become effective until:
(i) The designated agency official has advised the applicant or recipient of its failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;
(ii) There has been an express finding on the record, after opportunity for hearing, of a failure by the applicant or recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to these Title IX regulations; and
(iii) The expiration of 30 days after the Secretary has filed with the committee of the House, and the committee of the Senate having legislative jurisdiction over the program involved, a full written report of the circumstances and the grounds for such action.
(2) Any action to suspend or terminate or to refuse to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance shall be limited to the particular political entity, or part thereof, or other applicant or recipient as to whom such a finding has been made and shall be limited in its effect to the particular program, or part thereof, in which such noncompliance has been so found.
(d)
Other means authorized by law.
(1) No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until:
(i) The designated agency official has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means;
(ii) The recipient has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance; and
(iii) The expiration of at least 10 days from the mailing of such notice to the recipient.
(2) During this period of at least 10 days additional efforts shall be made to persuade the recipient to comply with these Title IX regulations and to take such corrective action as may be appropriate.
[65 FR 52883, Aug. 30, 2000]
§ 28.620
Hearings.
(a)
Opportunity for hearing.
Whenever an opportunity for a hearing is required by § 28.615(c), reasonable notice shall be given by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the affected applicant or recipient. This notice shall advise the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken, the specific provision under which the proposed action against it is to be taken, and the matters of fact or law asserted as the basis for this action, and either:
(1) Fix a date not less than 20 days after the date of such notice within which the applicant or recipient may request of the designated agency official that the matter be scheduled for hearing; or
(2) Advise the applicant or recipient that the matter in question has been set down for hearing at a stated place and time. The time and place so fixed shall be reasonable and shall be subject to change for cause. The complainant, if any, shall be advised of the time and place of the hearing. An applicant or recipient may waive a hearing and submit written information and argument for the record. The failure of an applicant or recipient to request a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to a hearing under 20 U.S.C. 1682 and § 28.615(c) and consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as may be filed as the record.
(b)
Time and place of hearing.
Hearings shall be held at the offices of the Department in Washington, DC, at a time fixed by the designated agency official unless the official determines that the convenience of the applicant or recipient or of the Department requires that another place be selected. Hearings shall be held before a hearing officer designated in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 556(b).
(c)
Right to counsel.
In all proceedings under this section, the applicant or recipient and the Department shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
(d)
Procedures, evidence, and record.
(1) The hearing, decision, and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in conformity with 5 U.S.C. 554-557 (sections 5-8 of the Administrative Procedure Act), and in accordance with such rules of procedure as are proper (and not inconsistent with this section) relating to the conduct of the hearing, giving of notices subsequent to those provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, taking of testimony, exhibits, arguments and briefs, requests for findings, and other related matters. Both the Department and the applicant or recipient shall be entitled to introduce all relevant evidence on the issues as stated in the notice for hearing or as determined by the hearing officer at the outset of or during the hearing. Any person (other than a Government employee considered to be on official business) who, having been invited or requested to appear and testify as a witness on the Government's behalf, attends at a time and place scheduled for a hearing provided for by these Title IX regulations, may be reimbursed for his or her travel and actual expenses of attendance in an amount not to exceed the amount payable under the standardized travel regulations to a Government employee traveling on official business.
(2) Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to these Title IX regulations, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination
shall be applied where reasonably necessary by the hearing officer. The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record. All decisions shall be based upon the hearing record and written findings shall be made.
(e)
Consolidated or Joint Hearings.
In cases in which the same or related facts are asserted to constitute noncompliance with these Title IX regulations with respect to two or more programs to which these Title IX regulations apply, or noncompliance with these Title IX regulations and the regulations of one or more other Federal departments or agencies issued under Title IX, the designated agency official may, by agreement with such other departments or agencies where applicable, provide for the conduct of consolidated or joint hearings, and for the application to such hearings of rules of procedures not inconsistent with these Title IX regulations. Final decisions in such cases, insofar as these Title IX regulations are concerned, shall be made in accordance with § 28.625.
[65 FR 52883, Aug. 30, 2000]
§ 28.625
Decisions and notices.
(a)
Decisions by hearing officers.
After a hearing is held by a hearing officer such hearing officer shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including recommended findings and proposed decision to the reviewing authority for a final decision, and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any. Where the initial decision referred to in this paragraph or in paragraph (c) of this section is made by the hearing officer, the applicant or recipient or the counsel for the Department may, within the period provided for in the rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official, file with the reviewing authority exceptions to the initial decision, with the reasons therefor. Upon the filing of such exceptions the reviewing authority shall review the initial decision and issue its own decision thereof including the reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions the initial decision shall constitute the final decision, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.
(b)
Decisions on record or review by the reviewing authority.
Whenever a record is certified to the reviewing authority for decision or it reviews the decision of a hearing officer pursuant to paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with it briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a copy of the final decision of the reviewing authority shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.
(c)
Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.
Whenever a hearing is waived pursuant to § 28.620, the reviewing authority shall make its final decision on the record or refer the matter to a hearing officer for an initial decision to be made on the record. A copy of such decision shall be given in writing to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.
(d)
Rulings required.
Each decision of a hearing officer or reviewing authority shall set forth a ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to these Title IX regulations with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.
(e)
Review in certain cases by the Secretary of the Treasury.
If the Secretary has not personally made the final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section, a recipient or applicant or the counsel for the Department may request the Secretary to review a decision of the reviewing authority in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. Such review is not a matter of right and shall be granted only where the Secretary determines there are special and important reasons therefor. The Secretary may grant or deny such
request, in whole or in part. The Secretary also may review such a decision upon his own motion in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. In the absence of a review under this paragraph (e), a final decision referred to in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section shall become the final decision of the Department when the Secretary transmits it as such to congressional committees with the report required under 20 U.S.C. 1682. Failure of an applicant or recipient to file an exception with the reviewing authority or to request review under this paragraph (e) shall not be deemed a failure to exhaust administrative remedies for the purpose of obtaining judicial review.
(f)
Content of orders.
The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue Federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which these Title IX regulations apply, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of Title IX and these Title IX regulations, including provisions designed to assure that no Federal financial assistance to which these Title IX regulations apply will thereafter be extended under such law or laws to the applicant or recipient determined by such decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it pursuant to these Title IX regulations, or to have otherwise failed to comply with these Title IX regulations unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the designated agency official that it will fully comply with these Title IX regulations.
(g)
Post-termination proceedings.
(1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with these Title IX regulations and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with these Title IX regulations. An elementary or secondary school or school system that is unable to file an assurance of compliance shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it files a court order or a plan for desegregation that meets the applicable requirements and provides reasonable assurance that it will comply with the court order or plan.
(2) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the designated agency official to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the designated agency official determines that those requirements have been satisfied, the official shall restore such eligibility.
(3) If the designated agency official denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes such official to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure issued by the designated agency official. The applicant or recipient will be restored to such eligibility if it proves at such hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph (g) are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.
[65 FR 52884, Aug. 30, 2000]
§ 28.630
Judicial review.
Action taken pursuant to 20 U.S.C. 1682 is subject to judicial review as provided in 20 U.S.C. 1683.
[65 FR 52885, Aug. 30, 2000]
§ 28.635
Forms and instructions; coordination.
(a)
Forms and instructions.
The designated agency official shall issue and promptly make available to interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating these Title IX regulations.
(b)
Supervision and coordination.
The designated agency official may from time to time assign to officials of the
Department, or to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of such departments or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of Title IX and these Title IX regulations (other than responsibility for review as provided in § 28.625(e)), including the achievements of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within the Department and within the Executive Branch of the Government in the application of Title IX and these Title IX regulations to similar programs and in similar situations. Any action taken, determination made, or requirement imposed by an official of another department or agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this section shall have the same effect as though such action had been taken by the designated official of this Department.
[65 FR 52885, Aug. 30, 2000]
Pt. 29

# PART 29—FEDERAL BENEFIT PAYMENTS UNDER CERTAIN DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA RETIREMENT PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
29.101
Purpose and scope.
29.102
Related regulations.
29.103
Definitions.
29.104
Schedule for Federal Benefit Payments.
29.105
Computation of time.
29.106
Representative payees.

# Subpart B—Coordination With the District Government
29.201
Purpose and scope.
29.202
Definitions. [Reserved]
29.203
Service of Process.
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 29—Addresses for Service of Process Under § 29.203

# Subpart C—Split Benefits
29.301
Purpose and scope.
29.302
Definitions.

# General Principles for Determining Service Credit To Calculate Federal Benefit Payments
29.311
Credit only for service performed on or before June 30, 1997.
29.312
All requirements for credit must be satisfied by June 30, 1997.
29.313
Federal Benefit Payments are computed based on retirement eligibility as of the separation date and service creditable as of June 30, 1997.

# Service Performed After June 30, 1997
29.321
General principle.
29.322
Disability benefits.

# All Requirements for Credit Must Be Satisfied by June 30, 1997
29.331
General principle.
29.332
Unused sick leave.
29.333
Military service.
29.334
Deposit service.
29.335
Refunded service.

# Calculation of the Amount of Federal Benefit Payments
29.341
General principle.
29.342
Computed annuity exceeds the statutory maximum.
29.343
Disability benefits.
29.344
Survivor benefits.
29.345
Cost-of-living adjustments.
29.346
Reduction for survivor benefits.

# Calculation of the Split of Refunds of Employee Contributions and Deposits
29.351
General principle.
29.352
Refunded contributions.
29.353
Refunded deposits.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 29—Examples

# Subpart D—Claims and Appeals Procedures
29.401
Purpose.
29.402
Definitions.
29.403
Applications filed with the Benefits Administrator.
29.404
Initial benefit determinations and reconsideration by the Benefits Administrator.
29.405
Appeals to the Department.
29.406
Judicial review.
29.407
Competing claimants.

# Subpart E—Debt Collection and Waivers of Collection
29.501
Purpose; incorporation by reference; scope.
29.502
Definitions.
29.503
Prohibition against collection of debts.
29.504
Status of debts.
29.505
Compromise of claims; termination and suspension of collection actions.
29.506
Recovery of other debts owed to the United States.

# Collection of Overpayments
29.511
Demand letters.
29.512
Reconsideration by the Benefits Administrator.
29.513
Appeals to the Department.
29.514
Requests for waiver and/or compromise.
29.515
Judicial review.
29.516
Collection of overpayments.
29.517
Collection by offset.
29.518
Reporting delinquent debts to credit bureaus.
29.519
Referral to a collection agency.
29.520
Referral for litigation.

# Standards for Waiver of Overpayments
29.521
Conditions for waiver and other adjustments.
29.522
Fault.
29.523
Equity and good conscience.
29.524
Financial hardship.
29.525
Ordinary and necessary living expenses.
29.526
Waiver precluded.

# Authority:
Subtitle A and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Pub. L. 105-33, 111 Stat. 712-731 and 786-787; as amended.

# Source:
65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 29.101
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part contains the Department's regulations implementing Subtitle A, Subchapter B of Chapter 4 of Subtitle C, and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, 756-759, enacted August 5, 1997, as amended.
(b) This subpart contains general information to assist in the use of this part including—
(1) Information about related regulations (§ 29.102),
(2) Definitions of terms used in more than one subpart of this part (§ 29.103), and
(3) The Department's general rules and procedures, applicable to the retirement plans for District of Columbia teachers, police and fire fighters, and judges that concern the administration of Federal Benefit Payments (§§ 29.104-29.106).
(c) This part applies to Federal Benefit Payments.
(d) This part does not apply to the program of annuities, other retirement benefits, or medical benefits for members and officers, retired members and officers, and survivors thereof, of the United States Park Police force, the United States Secret Service, or the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division.
(e) This part does not apply to the District of Columbia replacement plan, which covers payments based on service accrued after June 30, 1997, pursuant to section 11042 of the Act.
[65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 60004, Oct. 14, 2005]
§ 29.102
Related regulations.
(a) This part contains the following subparts:
(1) General Provisions (Subpart A);
(2) Coordination with the District Government (Subpart B);
(3) Split Benefits (Subpart C);
1
1
The effective date for section 29.102(a)(3) and Subpart C, originally scheduled for March 31, 2001, has been postponed indefinitely.
(4) Claims and Appeals Procedures (Subpart D); and
(5) Debt Collection and Waivers of Collection (Subpart E).
(b) Part 581 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contains information about garnishment of certain Federal payments to enforce awards of alimony or child support.
(c) Part 831 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contains information about benefits under the Civil Service Retirement System.
(d) Part 870 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contains information about benefits under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program.
(e) Part 890 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contains information about benefits under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
(f) Parts 835 and 845 and subparts M, N, and R of part 831 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, contain information about debt collection and waiver of collection under the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees Retirement System.
[65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000; 66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001]
§ 29.103
Definitions.
(a) In this part—
Act
means Subtitle A, Subchapter B of Chapter 4 of Subtitle C, and Chapter 3 of Subtitle H, of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, 756-759, as amended.
Benefits Administrator
means:
(1) For the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan under section 11041(a) of the Act:
(i) During the interim benefits administration period, the District of Columbia government; or
(ii) After the end of the interim benefits administration period:
(A) The Trustee selected by the Department under sections 11035(a) or 11085(a) of the Act;
(B) The Department, if a determination is made under sections 11035(d) or 11085(d) of the Act that, in the interest of economy and efficiency, the function of the Trustee shall be performed by the Department rather than the Trustee; or
(C) Any other agent of the Department designated to make initial benefit determinations and/or to recover or recoup or waive recovery or recoupment of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments, or to recover or recoup debts owed to the Federal Government by annuitants; or
(2) For the Judges Plan under section 11252(b) of the Act:
(i) During the interim benefits administration period, the District of Columbia government; or
(ii) After the end of the interim benefits administration period for the Judges Plan:
(A) The Trustee selected by the Department under section 11251(a) of the Act;
(B) The Department, if a determination is made under section 11251(a) of the Act that, in the interest of economy and efficiency, the function of the Trustee shall be performed by the Department rather than the Trustee; or
(C) Any other agent of the Department designated to make initial benefit determinations and/or to recover or recoup or waive recovery or recoupment of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments, or to recover or recoup debts owed to the Federal Government by annuitants.
District government
means the government of the District of Columbia.
Department
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Federal Benefit Payment
means a payment for which the Department is responsible under the Act, to which an individual is entitled under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan, in such amount and under such terms and conditions as may apply under such plans, including payments made under these plans before, on, or after the October 1, 1997, effective date of the Act. Service after June 30, 1997, shall not be credited for purposes of determining the amount of any Federal Benefit Payment under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan.
Freeze date
means June 30, 1997.
Judges Plan
means the retirement program (under subchapter III of chapter 15 of title 11 of the D.C. Code) for judges of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals or Superior Court or with judicial service with the former Juvenile Court of the District of Columbia, District of Columbia Tax Court, police court, municipal court, Municipal Court of Appeals, or District of Columbia Court of General Sessions.
OPM
means the United States Office of Personnel Management.
Police and Firefighters Plan
means any of the retirement programs (under chapter 6 of title 4 of the D.C. Code) for members of the Metropolitan Police Force and Fire Department in effect on June 29, 1997.
Reconsideration
means the process of reexamining an individual's entitlement to benefits or liability for a debt to determine whether—
(1) The law and regulations were properly applied; and/or
(2) The mathematical computation of the benefit or liability is correct.
Retirement Funds
means the District of Columbia Teachers, Police Officers, and Firefighters Federal Pension Fund established under section 11081 of the Act, the District of Columbia Judicial Retirement and Survivors Annuity Fund established under section 11252 of the Act, and their predecessor funds.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury or his or her designee.
Teachers Plan
means any of the retirement programs for teachers (under chapter 12 of title 31 of the D.C. Code) in effect on June 29, 1997.
(b) In this subpart—
Legal process
means—
(1) Any document that qualifies as legal process as defined in § 581.103 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; or
(2) Any court order that Federal or District of Columbia law permits to cause all or any portion of a payment under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan to be made to a former spouse under chapter 30 of title 1 of the D.C. Code (1997).
Representative payee
means a fiduciary to whom a payment under the Judges Plan, the Police and Firefighters Plan, or the Teachers Plan is made for the benefit of a plan participant or a survivor.
[65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001; 70 FR 60004, Oct. 14, 2005]
§ 29.104
Schedule for Federal Benefit Payments.
Federal Benefit Payments are payable on the first business day of the month following the month in which the benefit accrues. (See § 29.105(b).)
§ 29.105
Computation of time.
(a)
For filing documents.
In computing the number of days allowed for filing a document, the first day counted is the day after the action or event from which the period begins to run. If the date that ordinarily would be the last day for filing falls on a Saturday, a Sunday, a Federal holiday, or a District holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal or a District holiday.
(b)
For benefit accrual.
(1) Annuity accrues on a daily basis; one-thirtieth of the monthly rate constitutes the daily rate.
(2) Annuity does not accrue on the 31st day of any month except that annuity accrues on the 31st day of the initial month if the employee's annuity commences on the 31st day of a 31-day month.
(3) For accrual purposes the last day of a 28-day month counts as 3 days and the last day of a 29-day month counts as 2 days.
(c)
For counting unused sick leave.
(1) For annuity computation purposes—
(i) The service of a participant under the Police and Firefighters Plan who retires on an immediate annuity is increased by the number of days of unused sick leave to the participant's credit under a formal leave system; and
(ii) The service of a participant under the Teachers Plan who retires on an immediate annuity or dies leaving a survivor entitled to an annuity is increased by the number of days of unused sick leave to the participant's credit under a formal leave system.
(2) In general, 8 hours of unused sick leave increases total service by 1 day. In cases where more or less than 8 hours of sick leave would be charged for a day's absence, total service is increased by the number of days in the period between the date of separation and the date that the unused sick leave would have expired had the employee used it (except that holidays falling within the period are treated as work days, and no additional leave credit is earned for that period).
(3) If an employee's tour of duty changes from part time to full time or full time to part time within 180 days before retirement, the credit for unused sick leave is computed as though no change had occurred.
(d)
For counting leave without pay (LWOP) that is creditable service.
(1) Under the Police and Firefighters Plan, credit is allowed for no more than 6 months of LWOP in each calendar year.
(2)(i) Under the Teachers Plan, credit is allowed for no more than 6 months of LWOP in each fiscal year.
(ii)(A) For years prior to fiscal year 1976, each fiscal year started on July 1 and ended on the following June 30.
(B) Fiscal year 1976 started on July 1, 1975, and ended on September 30, 1976.
(C) For years starting in fiscal year 1977, each fiscal year starts on October 1 and ends on the following September 30.
§ 29.106
Representative payees.
For Federal Benefit Payments, representative payees will be authorized to the same extent and under the same circumstances as each plan permits for non-Federal Benefit Payments under the plan. (See e.g., section 4-629(b) of the D.C. Code (1997) (applicable to the Police and Firefighters Plan).)

# Subpart B—Coordination With the District Government
§ 29.201
Purpose and scope.
This subpart contains information concerning the relationship between the Department and the District government in the administration of the Act and the functions of each in the administration of that Act.
[70 FR 60005, Oct. 14, 2005]
§ 29.202
Definitions. [Reserved]
§ 29.203
Service of Process.
To affect Federal Benefit Payments—
(a) Service must be made upon the Department at the address provided in appendix A to this subpart for—
(1) Legal process under section 659 of title 42, United States Code, and part 581 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or
(2) Any request for or notice of appointment of a custodian, guardian, or other fiduciary to receive Federal Benefit Payments as representative payees under § 29.106;
(b) All other process regarding Federal Benefit Payments (including requests for judicial review under § 29.406) must be served upon the United States in accordance with applicable law.
(c) All other process regarding Federal Benefit Payments must be served upon the United States in accordance with applicable law.
Pt. 29, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 29—Addresses for Service Under § 29.203
1. The mailing address for delivery of documents described in § 29.203(a) by the United States Postal Service is: Office of DC Pensions, Department of the Treasury, Metropolitan Square Building, Room 6250, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
2. The address for delivery of documents described in § 29.203(a) by process servers, express carriers, or other forms of handcarried delivery is: Office of DC Pensions, Department of the Treasury, Metropolitan Square Building, Room 6250, 655 15th Street (F Street side), NW., Washington, DC.
[65 FR 77501, Dec. 12, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000]

# Subpart C—Split Benefits

# Source:
77 FR 64225, Oct. 19, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 29.301
Purpose and scope.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to addresses the legal and policy issues that affect the calculation of the Federal and District of Columbia portions of benefits under subtitle A of Title XI of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33, 111 Stat. 251, 712-731, and 786-787 enacted August 5, 1997, as amended.
(1) This subpart states general principles for the calculation of Federal Benefit Payments in cases in which the Department and the District government are both responsible for paying a portion of an employee's total retirement benefits under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.
(2) This subpart provides illustrative examples of sample computations to show the application of the general principles to specific problems.
(b)(1) This subpart applies only to benefits under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan for individuals who have performed service creditable under these programs on or before June 30, 1997.
(2) This subpart addresses only those issues that affect the split of fiscal responsibility for retirement benefits (that is, the calculation of Federal Benefit Payments).
(3) Issues relating to determination and review of eligibility and payments, and financial management, are beyond the scope of this subpart.
(c) This subpart does not apply to benefit calculations under the Judges Plan.
§ 29.302
Definitions.
In this subpart (including appendix A of this subpart)—
Deferred retirement
means retirement under section 4-623 of the D.C. Code
(1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1231(a) of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan).
Deferred retirement age
means the age at which a deferred annuity begins to accrue, that is, age 55 under the Police and Firefighters Plan and age 62 under the Teachers Plan.
Department service
or
departmental service
means any period of employment in a position covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan or Teachers Plan. Department service or departmental service may include certain periods of military service that interrupt a period of employment under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.
Disability retirement
means retirement under section 4-615 or section 4-616 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1225 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan), regardless of whether the disability was incurred in the line of duty.
Enter on duty
means commencement of employment in a position covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan.
Excess leave without pay
or
excess LWOP
means a period of time in a non-pay status that in any year is greater than the amount creditable as service under § 29.105(d).
Hire date
means the date the employee entered on duty.
Military service
means-
(1) For the Police and Firefighters Plan, military service as defined in section 4-607 of the D.C. Code (1997) that is creditable as other service under section 4-602 or section 4-610 of the D.C. Code (1997); and
(2) For the Teachers Plan, military service as described in section 31-1230(a)(4) of the D.C. Code (1997).
Optional retirement
means regular longevity retirement under section 4-618 of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Police and Firefighters Plan) or section 31-1224(a) of the D.C. Code (1997) (under the Teachers Plan).
Other service
means any period of creditable service other than departmental service or unused sick leave. Other service includes service that becomes creditable upon payment of a deposit, such as service in another school system (under section 31-1208 of the D.C. Code (1997)) (under the Teachers Plan) or prior governmental service (under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan); and service that is creditable without payment of a deposit, such as military service occurring prior to employment (under the Teachers Plan and the Police and Firefighters Plan).
Pre-80 hire
means an individual whose annuity is computed using the formula under the Police and Firefighters Plan applicable to individuals hired before February 15, 1980.
Pre-96 hire
means an individual whose annuity is computed using the formula under the Teachers Plan applicable to individuals hired before November 1, 1996.
Sick leave
means unused sick leave, which is creditable in a retirement computation, as calculated under § 29.105(c).

# General Principles for Determining Service Credit To Calculate Federal Benefit Payments
§ 29.311
Credit only for service performed on or before June 30, 1997.
Only service performed on or before June 30, 1997, is credited toward Federal Benefit Payments.
§ 29.312
All requirements for credit must be satisfied by June 30, 1997.
Service is counted toward Federal Benefit Payments only if all requirements for the service to be creditable are satisfied as of June 30, 1997.
§ 29.313
Federal Benefit Payments are computed based on retirement eligibility as of the separation date and service creditable as of June 30, 1997.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the amount of Federal Benefit Payments is computed based on retirement eligibility as of the separation date and service creditable as of June 30, 1997.

# Service Performed After June 30, 1997
§ 29.321
General principle.
Any service performed after June 30, 1997, may never be credited toward Federal Benefit Payments.
§ 29.322
Disability benefits.
If an employee separates for disability retirement after June 30, 1997, and, on the date of separation, the employee—
(a) Satisfies the age and service requirements for optional retirement, the Federal Benefit Payment commences immediately, that is, the Federal Benefit Payment is calculated as though the employee retired under optional retirement rules using only service through June 30, 1997 (See examples 7A and 7B of appendix A of this subpart); or
(b) Does not satisfy the age and service requirements for optional retirement, the Federal Benefit Payment begins when the disability retiree reaches deferred retirement age. (See § 29.343.)

# All Requirements for Credit Must Be Satisfied by June 30, 1997
§ 29.331
General principle.
To determine whether service is creditable for the computation of Federal Benefit Payments under this subpart, the controlling factor is whether all requirements for the service to be creditable under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan were satisfied as of June 30, 1997.
§ 29.332
Unused sick leave.
(a) For employees separated for retirement as of June 30, 1997, Federal Benefit Payments include credit for any unused sick leave that is creditable under the applicable plan.
(b) For employees separated for retirement after June 30, 1997, no unused sick leave is creditable toward Federal Benefit Payments.
§ 29.333
Military service.
(a) For employees who entered on duty on or before June 30, 1997, and whose military service was performed prior to that date, credit for military service is included in Federal Benefit Payments under the terms and conditions applicable to each plan.
(b) For employees who enter on duty after June 30, 1997, military service is not creditable toward Federal Benefit Payments, even if performed as of June 30, 1997.
(c) For employees who entered on duty on or before June 30, 1997, but who perform military service after that date, the credit for military service is not included in Federal Benefit Payments.
§ 29.334
Deposit service.
(a)
Teachers Plan.
(1) Periods of civilian service that were not subject to retirement deductions at the time they were performed are creditable for Federal Benefit Payments under the Teachers Plan if the deposit for the service was paid in full to the Teachers Plan as of June 30, 1997.
(2) No credit is allowed for Federal Benefit Payments under the Teachers Plan for any period of civilian service that was not subject to retirement deductions at the time it was performed if the deposit for the service was not paid in full as of June 30, 1997.
(3) If the deposit for the service was paid in installments, but was not paid in full as of June 30, 1997, Treasury shall transfer to the District an amount equal to the portion of the deposit completed prior to June 30, 1997.
(b)
Police and Firefighters Plan.
No credit is allowed for Federal Benefit Payments under the Police and Firefighters Plan for any period of civilian service that was not subject to retirement deductions at the time that the service was performed. (See definition of “governmental service” at D.C. Code section 4-607(15) (1997).)
§ 29.335
Refunded service.
(a) Periods of civilian service that were subject to retirement deductions but for which the deductions were refunded to the employee are creditable for Federal Benefit Payments if the redeposit for the service was paid in full to the District government as of June 30, 1997.
(b) No credit is allowed for Federal Benefit Payments for any period of civilian service that was subject to retirement deductions but for which the
deductions were refunded to the employee if the redeposit for the service was not paid in full to the District government as of June 30, 1997.
(c) If the redeposit for the service was paid in installments, but was not paid in full as of June 30, 1997, Treasury shall transfer to the District an amount equal to the portion of the redeposit completed prior to June 30, 1997.

# Calculation of the Amount of Federal Benefit Payments
§ 29.341
General principle.
(a) Where service is creditable both before and after June 30, 1997, Federal Benefit Payments are computed under the rules of the applicable plan as though—
(1) The employee were eligible to retire effective July 1, 1997, under the same conditions as the actual retirement (that is, using the annuity computation formula that applies under the plan in effect on June 29, 1997, and the retirement age, including any applicable age reduction, based on the age at actual retirement);
(2) The service that became creditable after June 30, 1997, did not exist; and
(3) The average salary is the average salary at separation.
(b) Exceptions to the general principle apply where:
(1) Congress amends the terms of the District Retirement Program in effect on June 29, 1997. For example, see section 11012(e)
(f) of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, as amended by Public Laws 106-554, 107-290, and 108-133 (codified at D.C. Code section 1-803.02(e) and (f));
(2) The retirement is based on disability after June 30, 1997 (see 29.343); or
(3) The benefit is based on the death of an employee after June 30, 1997 and the survivor benefit is not based on years of service (see 29.344).

# Note to § 29.341:
See examples 7B, 9, and 13 of appendix A of this subpart.
§ 29.342
Computed annuity exceeds the statutory maximum.
(a) In cases in which the total computed annuity exceeds the statutory maximum:
(1) Federal Benefit Payments may equal total benefits even if the employee had service after June 30, 1997.
(2) If the employee had sufficient service as of June 30, 1997, to qualify for the maximum annuity under the plan, the Federal Benefit Payment is the maximum annuity under the plan. This will be the entire benefit except for any amount in excess of the normal maximum due to unused sick leave, which is the responsibility of the District. (See example 3, of appendix A of this subpart.)
(b) If the employee did not perform sufficient service as of June 30, 1997, to reach the statutory maximum benefit, but has sufficient service at actual retirement to exceed the statutory maximum, the Federal Benefit Payment is the amount earned through June 30, 1997. The District benefit payment is the amount by which the total benefit payable exceeds the Federal Benefit Payment.
§ 29.343
Disability benefits.
(a) The general rule that Federal Benefit Payments are calculated under the applicable retirement plan as though the employee were eligible for optional retirement and separated on June 30, 1997, does not apply to disability benefits prior to optional retirement age.
(b) In cases involving disability benefits prior to optional retirement age, no Federal Benefit Payment is payable until the retiree reaches the age of eligibility to receive a deferred annuity (age 55 under the Police and Firefighters Plan and age 62 under the Teachers Plan). When the age for deferred annuity is reached, the Federal Benefit Payment is paid using creditable service accrued as of June 30, 1997, and average salary (computed under the rules for the applicable plan) as of the date of separation. (See examples 6 and 7 of appendix A of this subpart.)
(c) In no case will the amount of the Federal Benefit Payment exceed the amount of the total disability annuity.
§ 29.344
Survivor benefits.
(a) The general rule that Federal Benefit Payments are calculated under the applicable retirement plan as though the employee were eligible for optional retirement and separated on June 30, 1997, applies to death benefits that are determined by length of service. In these cases, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated by multiplying the survivor's total benefit by the ratio of the deceased retiree or employee's Federal Benefit Payment to the deceased retiree or employee's total annuity. (See examples 13A and B of appendix A of this subpart.)
(b) The general rule that Federal Benefit Payments are calculated under the applicable retirement plan as though the employee were eligible for optional retirement and separated on June 30, 1997, does not apply to death benefits that are not determined by length of service. In these cases, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated by multiplying the survivor's total benefit by the deceased retiree or employee's number of full months of service through June 30, 1997, and then dividing by the retiree or employee's number of months of total service at retirement. (See examples 13C-F of appendix A of this subpart.)
(c) In cases involving a disability or early voluntary retiree who dies before reaching the age at which a Federal Benefit Payment is payable, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated as though the employee had not retired from service, but had separated from service with eligibility to receive a deferred annuity. (See examples 13G and 13H of appendix A of this subpart.)
§ 29.345
Annuity adjustments.
(a) In cases in which the total annuity and the Federal Benefit Payment are equally impacted by a cost-of-living adjustment, the new Federal Benefit Payment is determined by applying the federal percentage of the total annuity to the new total annuity. (See examples 14A-G of appendix A of this subpart.)
(b) In cases in which the total annuity and the Federal Benefit Payment are not equally impacted by a change, such as a new plan provision or service-based adjustment, the Federal Benefit Payment is recalculated where applicable, and the federal percentage of the total annuity used to determine subsequent Federal Benefit Payments is recalculated. (See example 14H of appendix A of this subpart.)
§ 29.346
Reduction for survivor benefits.
If a retiree elects a reduction for a survivor annuity, the ratio of the unreduced Federal Benefit Payment to the unreduced total annuity is multiplied by the reduced total annuity to determine the reduced Federal Benefit Payment. (See example 10 of appendix A of this subpart.)

# Calculation of the Split of Refunds of Employee Contributions and Deposits
§ 29.351
General principle.
Treasury will fund refunds of employee contributions and purchase of service deposits paid by or on behalf of a covered employee to the District of Columbia Police Officers' and Firefighters' Retirement Fund or District of Columbia Teachers' Retirement Fund on or before June 30, 1997.
§ 29.352
Refunded contributions.
For any given pay period, employee contributions are considered to have been made before the freeze date if the pay date was on or before June 30, 1997. As a result, for calendar year 1997, Treasury will fund refunds of employee contributions made by teachers through pay period 12 and fund refunds of employee contributions made by police officers and firefighters through pay period 13. If pay period records are unavailable for calendar year 1997, and the participant separated on or before June 30, 1997, Treasury will fund 100 percent of the refund of retirement contributions. If pay period records are unavailable for calendar year 1997, and the participant was hired before January 1, 1997, and separated after December 31, 1997, Treasury will fund 50 percent of the refund of retirement contributions made to teachers in calendar year 1997, and 48 percent of the retirement contributions made to police officers or firefighters in calendar year
1997. Otherwise, if the participant separated after June 30, 1997, the percent of contributions made in calendar year 1997 funded by Treasury is assumed to be the ratio where the numerator is the number of days before July 1 the participant was employed in calendar year 1997 and the denominator is the number of days the participant was employed in calendar year 1997.
§ 29.353
Refunded deposits.
Treasury will fund refunds of purchase of service deposits made by employees by lump sum payment or by installment payments on or before June 30, 1997.
Pt. 29, Subpt. C, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 29—Examples
This appendix contains sample calculations of Federal Benefit Payments in a variety of situations.

# Optional Retirement Examples

# Example 1: No Unused Sick Leave
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 retires in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 51 with 20 years and 3 days of departmental service plus 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of military service that preceded the departmental service. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 19 years, 8 months, and 22 days of departmental service and 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of military service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 23 years and 1 month of service, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 23 years and 4 months of service, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate.
Example 1A—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/46
Hire date: 10/09/77
Separation date: 10/11/97
Department service: 20/00/03
Other service: 03/04/21
Sick leave:
.025 service: 23.333333
.03 service:
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $26,647.12
Total/month: $2,221.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 9/10/46
Hire date: 10/09/77
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 19/08/22
Other service: 03/04/21
Sick leave:
.025 service: 23.083333
.03 service:
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $26,361.61
Total/month: $2,197.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.989194
B. In this example, the individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan was hired earlier than in example 1A and thus performed more service as of both June 30, 1997, and retirement in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 51 with 21 years, 11 months and 29 days of departmental service plus 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of military service that preceded the departmental service. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 21 years, 8 months, and 18 days of departmental service and 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of military service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 25 years and 1 month of service, 1 year and 8 months at the 3.0 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 5 months at the 2.5 percent accrual rate (including 1 month consisting of 18 days of departmental service and 21 days of other service). The total annuity is based on 25 years and 4 months of service, 1 year and 11 months at the 3.0 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 5 months at the 2.5 percent accrual rate (including 1 month consisting of 29 days of departmental service and 21 days of other service).
Example 1B—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/46
Hire date: 10/13/75
Separation date: 10/11/97
Department service: 21/11/29
Other service: 03/04/21
Sick leave:
.025 service: 23.416667
.03 service: 1.916667
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $29,368.96
Total/month $2,447.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/10/46
Hire date: 10/13/75
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 21/08/18
Other service: 03/04/21
Sick leave:
.025 service: 23.416667
.03 service: 1.666667
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $29,026.36
Total/month: $2,419.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.988557

# Example 2: Unused Sick Leave Credit
In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan and hired before 1980 retires in March 1998. At retirement, she is age 48 with 24 years, 8 months, and 6 days of departmental service plus 6 months and 4 days of other service (deposit paid before June 30, 1997) and 11 months and 11 days of unused sick leave. For a police officer (or a non-firefighting division firefighter) such an amount of sick leave would be 1968 hours (246 days, based on a 260-day year, times 8 hours per day). For a firefighting division firefighter, such an amount would be 2,069 hours (341 days divided by 360 days per year times 2,184 hours per year). The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 23 years, 11 months, and 23 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997, and 6 months and 4 days of other service. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 20 years departmental and 6 months of other service at the 2.5 percent accrual rate and 3 years and 11 months of service at the 3.0 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 20 years and 6 months of service at the 2.5 percent accrual rate and 5 years and 7 months of service at the 3 percent accrual rate.
Example 2—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 05/01/49
Hire date: 07/08/73
Separation date: 03/13/98
Department service: 24/08/06
Other service: 00/06/04
Sick leave: 00/11/11
.025 service: 20.5
.03 service: 5.583333
Average salary: $61,264.24
Total: $41,659.68
Total/month: $3,472.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 05/01/49
Hire date: 07/08/73
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 23/11/23
Other service: 00/06/04
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20.5
.03 service: 3.916667
Average salary: $61,264.24
Total: $38,596.47
Total/month: $3,216.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.926267

# Example 3: Calculated Benefit Exceeds Statutory Maximum
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 retires in March 1998. At retirement, he is age 55 with 32 years and 17 days of departmental service. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 31 years, 3 months, and 17 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 20 years of service at the 2.5 percent accrual rate and 11 years and 3 months of service at the 3.0 percent accrual rate. However, the annuity is limited to 80 percent of the average salary at time of retirement. (This limitation does not apply to the unused sick leave credit.) The annuity computed as of June 30, 1997, equals the full benefit payable; therefore, the Federal Benefit Payment is the total benefit.
Example 3A—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 06/12/42
Hire date: 03/14/66
Separation date: 03/30/98
Department service: 32/00/17
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 12
Average salary: $75,328.30
Total: $64,782.34
Total/month: $5,399.00
Maximum: $60,262.64
Maximum/month: $5,022.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 06/12/42
Hire date: 03/14/66
Freeze date: 03/30/97
Department service: 31/03/17
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 11.25
Average salary: $75,328.30
Total: $63,087.45
Total/month: $5,257.00
Maximum: $60,262.64
Maximum/month: $5,022.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 1.0
B. In this example, the individual in example 3A also has 6 months of unused sick leave at retirement. The sick leave credit is not subject to the 80% limitation and does not become creditable service until the date of separation. For a police officer (or a non-firefighting division firefighter) such an amount of sick leave would be 1040 hours (130 days, based on a 260-day year, times 8 hours per day). For a firefighting division firefighter, such an amount would be 1092 hours (180 days divided by 360 days per year times 2184 hours per year). Six months of unused sick leave increases the annual total benefit by 1.5 percent of the average salary, or in the example by $94 per month. The District is responsible for the portion of the annuity attributable to the unused sick leave because it became creditable at retirement, that is, after June 30, 1997.
Example 3B—Police Optional
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 06/12/42
Hire date: 03/14/66
Separation date: 03/30/98
Department service: 32/00/17
Other service:
Sick leave: 00/06/00
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 12
Average salary: $75,328.30
Total wo/sl credit: $64,782.34
Total/month: $5,399.00
Max wo/sl credit: $60,262.64
Max w/sl credit: $61,392.57
Monthly benefit: $5,116.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 06/12/42
Hire date: 03/14/66
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 31/03/17
Other service:
Sick leave: none
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 11.25
Average salary: $75,328.30
Total: $63,087.45
Total/month: $5,257.00
Maximum: $60,262.64
Monthly benefit: $5,022.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.981626

# Example 4: Excess Leave Without Pay
In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires in February 1998. At retirement, she is age 64 with 27 years of departmental service and 6 years, 7 months, and 28 days of other service (creditable before June 30, 1997). However, only 6 months of leave in a fiscal year without pay may be credited toward retirement under the Teachers Plan. She had 3 months and 18 days of excess leave without pay as of June 30, 1997. Since the excess leave without pay occurred before June 30, 1997, the time attributable to the excess leave without pay is subtracted from the service used in both the Federal Benefit Payment and the total benefit computations. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 32 years and 8 months of service (32 years, 11 months, and 28 days minus 3 months and 18 days and the partial month dropped); 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 22 years and 8 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 33 years and 4 months of service (33 years, 7 months and 28 days minus 3 months and 18 days and the partial month dropped) 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 4 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.

# Note:
For the Teachers Plan, section 1230(a) of title 31 of the D.C. Code (1997) allows for 6 months leave without pay in any fiscal year. For the Police and Firefighters Plan, section 610(d) of title 4 of the D.C. Code
(1997) allows for 6 months leave without pay in any calendar year.
Example 4—Teachers Optional
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/04/33
Hire date: 03/01/71
Separation date: 02/28/98
Department service: 27/00/00
Other service: 06/07/28
Excess LWOP: 00/03/18
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $33,421.98
Total/month: $2,785.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/04/33
Hire date: 03/01/71
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 26/04/00
Other service: 06/07/28
Excess LWOP: 00/03/18
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 22.666667
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $32,713.66
Total/month: $2,726.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.978815

# Example 5: Service Credit Deposits
A. An individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 61 with 30 years and 3 days of departmental service plus 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of other service that preceded the departmental service for which the deposit was fully paid on or before June 30, 1997. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 29 years, 8 months, and 22 days of departmental service and 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 33 years and 1 month of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 23 years and 1 month of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 33 years and 4 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 4 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Example 5A—Teachers Optional
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Separation date: 10/11/97
Department Service: 30/00/03
Other service: 03/04/21
Deposit paid before freeze date:
Other service credit allowed:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $28,740.85
Total/month: $2,395.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 29/08/22
Other service: 03/04/21
Deposit paid before freeze date:
Other service credit allowed:
Sick Leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.08333; 13 days
dropped
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $28,512.45
Total/month: $2,376.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.992067
B. In this example, the employee in example 5A did not pay any of the deposit to obtain credit for the 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of other service as of June 30, 1997. Thus, none of the other service is used in the computation of the Federal Benefit Payment. An individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 61 with 30 years and 3 days of departmental service plus 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of other service that preceded the departmental service for which the deposit was paid in full in October 1997 (at retirement). The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on only the 29 years, 8 months, and 22 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 19 years and 8 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 33 years
and 4 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 23 years and 4 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Example 5B—Teachers Optional
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Separation date: 10/11/97
$0.00
Department service: 30/00/03
Other service: 03/04/21
Total deposit paid after 6/30/97:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $28,740.85
Total/month: $2,395.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 29/08/22
Other service: none
Total deposit paid after 6/30/97:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 19.666667; 22 days dropped
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $25,390.90
Total/month: $2,116.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.883507
C. In this example, the employee in examples 5A and B began installment payments on the deposit to obtain credit for the 3 years, 4 months, and 21 days of other service as of June 30, 1997, but did not complete the deposit until October 1997 (at retirement). The other service is not used in the computation of the Federal Benefit Payment because the payment was not completed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the result is the same as in example 5B.
Example 5C—Teachers Optional
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Separation date: 10/11/97
Department service: 30/00/03
Other service: 03/04/21
Partial deposit paid as of 6/30/97:
Deposit completed after 6/30/97:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $28,740.85
Total/month: $2,395.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/10/36
Hire date: 10/09/67
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 29/08/22
Other service: none
Partial deposit paid as of 6/30/97:
Deposit completed after 6/30/97:
Sick leave:
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 19.666667; 22 days dropped
Average salary: $45,680.80
Total: $25,390.90
Total/month: $2,116.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.883507

# Disability Retirement Examples

# Example 6: Disability Occurs Before Eligibility for Optional Retirement
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 retires based on a disability in the line of duty in October 1997. At retirement, he is age 45 with 18 years, 5 months, and 11 days of departmental service. Since he had performed less than 20 years of service and had not reached the age of eligibility for an optional retirement, the Federal Benefit Payment does not begin at retirement. When the disability annuitant reaches age 55, he satisfies the age and service requirements for deferred retirement. At that time (August 20, 2007), the Federal Benefit Payment begins. It is based on the 18 years, 1 month, and 17 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate.
Example 6A—Police Disability in Line of Duty, Age 45
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 08/20/52
Hire date: 05/14/79
Separation date: 10/24/97
Department service: 18/05/11
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 18.416667
.03 service:
Average salary: $47,788.64
Final salary: $50,938.00
Total: $22,002.70
Total/month: $1,834.00
2/3 of average pay: $31,859.11
Monthly: $2,655.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 08/20/52
Hire date: 05/14/79
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 18/01/17
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 18.083333
.03 service:
Average salary: $47,788.64
Final salary: $50,938.00
Total: $21,604.43
Total/month: $1,800.00; deferred
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.0 (at time of retirement)
B. In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires based on a disability in December 1997. At retirement, she is age 49 with 27 years and 4 months of departmental service which includes 3 years, 3 months and 14 days of excess leave without pay (prior to June 30, 1997). Since she does not qualify for optional retirement at separation, the Federal Benefit Payment does not begin at separation. When the disability annuitant reaches age 62, she will satisfy the age and service requirements for deferred retirement. At that time (March 9, 2010), the Federal Benefit Payment begins. The time attributable to the excess leave without pay is subtracted from the service used to compute the Federal Benefit Payment. Since the excess leave without pay occurred before June 30, 1997, the deferred Federal Benefit Payment is based on the 23 years and 6 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 13 and 6 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Example 6B—Teachers Disability Age 49
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 03/09/48
Hire date: 09/01/70
Separation date: 12/31/97
Department service: 27/04/00
Other service:
Excess LWOP: 03/03/14
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 14
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $23,506.04
Total/month: $1,959.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 03/09/48
Hire date: 09/01/70
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 26/10/00
Other service:
Excess LWOP: 03/03/14
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 13.5
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $22,974.83
Total/month: $1,915.00; deferred
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.0 (at time of retirement)

# Example 7: Disability Occurs After Eligibility for Optional Retirement
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 retires based on a disability in the line of duty in October 1997. At retirement, she is age 55 with 24 years, 5 months, and 11 days of departmental service. Since she was also eligible for optional retirement at the time of separation, the Federal Benefit Payment commences at retirement. It is based on the 24 years, 1 month, and 17 days of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997. Thus, the Federal Benefit Payment is based on 20 years of service at the 2.5 percent accrual rate and 4 years and 1 month of service at the 3 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on the disability formula and is equal to two-thirds of average pay because that amount is higher than the 63.25 percent payable based on total service.
Example 7A—Police Disability in Line of Duty Age 55
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 10/01/42
Hire date: 05/14/73
Separation date: 10/24/97
Department service: 24/05/11
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 4.416667
Average salary: $47,788.64
Final salary: $50,938.00
Total: $30,226.31
Total/month: $2,519.00
2/3 of average pay: $31,859.11
Monthly: $2,655.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 10/01/42
Hire date: 05/14/73
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 24/01/17
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 20
.03 service: 4.083333
Average salary: $47,788.64
Final salary: $50,938.00
Total: $29,748.43
Total/month: $2,479.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.984121
B. In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires based on a disability in December 1997. At retirement, he is age 60 with 27 years and 4 months of departmental service which includes 3 years, 3 months and 14 days of excess leave without pay (prior to June 30, 1997). Since he qualifies for optional retirement at separation, the Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. Since the excess leave without pay occurred before June 30, 1997, and the total annuity is based on actual service (that is, exceeds the guaranteed disability minimum), the time attributable to the excess leave without pay is subtracted from the service used to compute the Federal Benefit Payment and total benefit. The Federal Benefit Payment is based on 23 years and 6 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 13 years and 6 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity payable is based on 24 years of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 14 years of service at the 2 percent accrual rate.
Example 7B—Teachers Disability Age 60
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 03/09/37
Hire date: 09/01/70
Separation date: 12/31/97
Department service: 27/04/00
Other service:
Excess LWOP: 03/03/14
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 14
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $23,506.04
Total/month: $1,959.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 03/09/37
Hire date: 09/01/70
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 26/10/00
Other service:
Excess LWOP: 03/03/14
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 13.5
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $22,974.83
Total/month: $1,915.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.977540

# Deferred Retirement Examples

# Example 8: All Service Before June 30, 1997
In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 separated in March 1986 with title to a deferred annuity. In November 1997, he reaches age 55 and becomes eligible for the deferred annuity based on his 15 years, 9 months, and 8 days of departmental service, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on the same 15 years, 9 months, and 8 days of service all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate. Since all the service is creditable as of June 30, 1997, the Federal Benefit Payment equals the total annuity.
Example 8—Police Deferred
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/20/42
Hire date: 06/01/70
Separation date: 03/08/86
Department service: 15/09/08
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 15.75
.03 service: 0
Average salary: $30,427.14
Final salary: $45,415.00
Total: $11,980.69; deferred
Total/month: $998.00; deferred
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/20/42
Hire date: 06/01/70
Freeze date: 03/08/86
Department service: 15/09/08
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 15.75
.03 service: 0
Average salary: $30,427.14
Final salary: $45,415.00
Total: $11,980.69; deferred
Total/month: $998.00; deferred
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 1.0; deferred

# Example 9: Service Straddles June 30, 1997
In this example, an individual covered by the Police and Firefighters Plan hired before 1980 separated in December 1997 with title to a deferred annuity. In November 2007, he will reach age 55 and becomes eligible to receive a deferred annuity. At that time, the Federal Benefit Payment begins. It is based on the 18 years and 1 month of departmental service performed as of June 30, 1997, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate. The total annuity begins at the same time, based on his 18 years, 6 months, and 8 days of departmental service, all at the 2.5 percent accrual rate.
Example 9—Police Deferred
[Pre-80 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/20/52
Hire date: 06/01/79
Separation date: 12/08/97
Department service: 18/06/08
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 18.5
.03 service: 0
Average salary: $30,427.14
Final salary: $45,415.00
Total: $14,072.55; deferred
Total/month: $1,173.00; deferred
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/20/52
Hire date: 06/01/79
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 18/01/00
Other service:
Sick leave:
.025 service: 18.083333
.03 service: 0
Average salary: $30,427.14
Final salary: $45,415.00
Total: $13,755.60; deferred
Total/month: $1,146.00; deferred
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.976982; deferred

# Reduction To Provide a Survivor Annuity Examples

# Example 10: Survivor Reduction Calculations
Both of the following examples involve a former teacher who elected a reduced annuity to provide a survivor benefit:
A. In this example, the employee elects to provide full survivor benefits of 55% of the employee's unreduced annuity. The total annuity is reduced by 2
1/2
percent of the first $3600 and 10 percent of the balance. The reduced Federal Benefit Payment is determined by multiplying the reduced total annuity (rounded) by the ratio of the unreduced Federal Benefit Payment to the unreduced total annuity. Military service occurred prior to June 30, 1997 and purchase of other service was completed prior to June 30, 1997.
Example 10A—Teachers Optional W/Survivor Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Separation date: 12/31/97
Department service: 29/02/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.666667
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total unreduced: $42,464.13
Total unreduced/month: $3,539.00
Reduction: $3,976.41
Total: $38,487.72
Total/month: $3,207.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 28/08/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.166667
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total federal unreduced: $41,796.28
Total federal unreduced/month: $3,483.00
Total federal unreduced/month ÷ total unreduced/month: 0.984176
Total federal/month: $3,156.00
B. In this example, the employee elects to provide a partial survivor annuity of 26% of the employee's unreduced annuity. The total annuity is reduced by 2
1/2
percent of the first $3,600 of $20,073.95 and 10 percent of the balance. The reduced Federal Benefit Payment is determined by multiplying the reduced total annuity (rounded) by the ratio of the unreduced Federal Benefit Payment to the unreduced total annuity.
Example 10B—Teachers Optional W/Survivor Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Separation date: 12/31/97
Department service: 29/02/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.666667
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total unreduced: $42,464.13
Total unreduced/month: $3,539.00
Reduction: $1,737.40
Total reduced: $40,726.73
Total reduced/month: $3,394.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire Date: 11/01/68
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 28/08/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.166667
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total federal unreduced: $41,796.28
Total federal unreduced/month: $3,483.00
Total federal unreduced/month ÷ total unreduced/month: 0.984176
Total federal reduced/month: $3,340.00

# Early Optional or Involuntary Retirement Examples

# Example 11: Early Optional With Age Reduction
In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires voluntarily in February 1998, under a special program that allows early retirement with at least 20 years of service at age 50 older, or at least 25 years of service at any age. At retirement, she is 6 full months short of age 55. She has 25 years and 5 months of departmental service; 6 years, 2 months, and 19 days of other service (creditable before June 30, 1997); and 2 months and 9 days of unused sick leave. Since she is not eligible for optional retirement and she is eligible to retire voluntarily only because of the District-approved special program, the Federal Benefit Payment is calculated similar to a disability retirement. It does not begin until she becomes eligible for a deferred annuity at age 62. When it commences the Federal Benefit Payment will be based on the service creditable as of June 30, 1997: 30 years and 11 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 20 years and 11 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 21 years and 9 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate (including
the unused sick leave). Because the Federal Benefit Payment is based on the deferred annuity, rather than the early voluntary retirement, it is not reduced by the age reduction factor used to compute the total benefit.
Example 11—Teachers Early Out W/Age Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/20/43
Hire date: 10/01/72
Separation date: 02/28/98
Department service: 25/05/00
Other service: 06/02/19
Sick leave: 00/02/09
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 21.75
Average salary: $69,281.14
Total unreduced: $41,395.48
Age reduction factor: 0.990000
Total reduced: $40,981.53
Total/month: $3,415.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/20/43
Hire date: 10/01/72
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 24/09/00
Other service: 06/02/19
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 20.916667
Average salary: $69,281.14
Total unreduced: $40,240.80; deferred
Reduction factor: 1.000000 no reduction
Total reduced: $40,240.80; deferred
Total/month: $3,353.00 deferred
Total federal unreduced/month ÷ Total unreduced/month: 0.0 (at time of retirement)

# Example 12: Involuntary With Age Reduction
In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan hired before 1996 retires involuntarily in February 1998. At retirement, she is 6 full months short of age 55. She has 25 years and 5 months of departmental service; 6 years, 2 months, and 19 days of other service (creditable before June 30, 1997); and 2 months and 9 days of unused sick leave. The Federal Benefit Payment begins at retirement. It is based on the 30 years and 11 months of service; 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate, and 20 years and 11 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate. The total annuity is based on 5 years of service at the 1.5 percent accrual rate, 5 years of service at the 1.75 percent accrual rate and 21 years and 9 months of service at the 2 percent accrual rate (including the unused sick leave). Both the Federal Benefit Payment and the total benefit are reduced by the age reduction factor.
Example 12—Teachers Involuntary W/Age Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 09/20/43
Hire date: 10/01/72
Separation date: 02/28/98
Department service: 25/05/00
Other service: 06/02/19
Sick leave: 00/02/09
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 21.75
Average salary: $69,281.14
Total unreduced: $41,395.48
Age reduction factor: 0.990000
Total reduced: $40,981.53
Total/month: $3,415.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 09/20/43
Hire date: 10/01/72
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 24/09/00
Other service: 06/02/19
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 20.916667
Average salary: $69,281.14
Total unreduced: $40,240.80
Age reduction factor: 0.990000
Total reduced: $39,838.39
Total/month: $3,320.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.972182

# Death Benefits Example

# Example 13: Death Benefits Calculation
Examples A and B involve service-based death benefits calculations. Examples C-F involve non-service-based death benefits calculations. Examples G and H involve disability death benefit calculations.
A. In this example, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan retires in December 1997 and elects to provide a full survivor annuity. He dies in June 1998. The survivor's
Federal Benefit Payment is 98.4 percent ($3,483 ÷ $3,539) of the total survivor benefit.
Example 13A—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Separation date: 12/31/97
Death date: 06/24/98
Department service: 29/02/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total unreduced/month (retiree): $3,539.00
Total/month (survivor): $1,946.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 06/24/98
Department service: 28/08/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
Average salary: $66,785.00
Total federal unreduced/month (retiree): $3,483.00
Total federal unreduced/month (retiree) ÷ total unreduced/month (retiree): 0.984176
Total federal/month (survivor): $1,915.00
B. In this example, a teacher dies in service on June 30, 1998 after 31 years of departmental service. Since the survivor annuity is based on actual service, the Federal Benefit Payment is 96.5 percent ($1,818 ÷ $1,883) of the total survivor benefit.
Example 13B—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 07/01/39
Hire date: 07/01/67
Separation date: 06/30/98
Death date: 06/30/98
Department service: 31/00/00
Average salary: $38,787.88
Total (retiree): $22,593.94
Total/month (retiree): $1,883.00
Total/month (survivor): $1,036.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 07/01/39
Hire date: 07/01/67
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 06/30/98
Department service: 30/00/00
Average salary: $38,787.88
Total federal (retiree): $21,818.18
Total federal/month (retiree): $1,818.00
Total federal/month (retiree) ÷ total/month (retiree): 0.965481
Total federal/month (survivor): $1,000.00
C. In this example, as in Example A, an individual covered by the Teachers Plan retires in December 1997 but elects to provide a survivor annuity of $12,000. He dies in June 1998. Because the amount of the survivor annuity is not service-based, the Federal Benefit Payment is a prorated portion of the total benefit. Since the teacher had 398 months of service as of the freeze date and 404 months of service, at retirement, the Federal Benefit Payment equals 398/404ths of the total benefit.
Example 13C—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Separation date: 12/31/97
Death date: 06/24/98
Department service: 29/02/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
Months of service: 404
Total: $12,000.00
Total/month: $1,000.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 11/01/68
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 06/24/98
Department service: 28/08/00
Other service: 03/09/18
Military: 00/09/11
Months of service: 398
Federal service ÷ total service: 0.985149
Total: $11,820.00
Total/month: $985.00
D. In this example, a teacher dies in service on April 1, 1998 after 14 years and 6 months of departmental service. Because the
survivor annuity is based on the guaranteed minimum, the Federal Benefit Payment is a prorated portion of the total benefit. Since the teacher had 165 months of service as of the freeze date and 180 months of service, including unused sick leave, at death, the Federal Benefit Payment equals 165/180ths of the total benefit.
Example 13D—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 04/01/61
Hire date: 10/01/83
Separation date: 04/01/98
Death date: 04/01/98
Department service: 14/06/01
Unused Sick Leave: 00/06/00
Average salary: $36,000.00
Months of service: 180
Total: $7,920.00
Total/month: $660.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 04/01/61
Hire date: 04/01/83
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 04/01/98
Department Service: 13/09/00
Average salary: $36,000.00
Months of service: 165
Federal service ÷ total service: 0.916667
Total: $7,260.00
Total/month: $605.00
E. In this example, as in the prior example, a teacher dies in service on April 1, 1998 after 15 years of departmental service. However, in this example, the teacher was age 40 on the hire date. The amount of service used in the survivor annuity calculation equals the amount of service that the teacher would have had if the teacher continued covered employment until age 60. Because the survivor annuity is based on projected service, a form of the guaranteed minimum, the Federal Benefit Payment is a prorated portion of the total benefit. Since the teacher had 171 months of service as of the freeze date and 180 months of service at death, the Federal Benefit Payment equals 171/180ths of the total benefit.
Example 13E—Teachers Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 04/01/43
Hire date: 04/01/83
Separation date: 04/01/98
Death date: 04/01/98
Department service: 15/00/01
Departmental Service projected to age 60: 20/00/01
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 10
Average salary: $36,000.00
Months of service: 180
Total: $7,177.50
Total/month: $598.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 04/01/43
Hire date: 04/01/83
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 04/01/98
Department service: 14/03/00
Average salary: $36,000.00
Months of service: 171
Federal service ÷ total service: 0.950000
Total: $6,818.63
Total/month: $568.00
F. In this example, a police officer dies in the line of duty on July 31, 2001 after 18 years of departmental service. The survivor annuity is equal to 100 percent of the officer's pay at the time of death, as provided by District legislation effective October 1, 2000. However, the Federal Benefit Payment is calculated based on plan provisions in effect on June 29, 1997, which provided for a survivor annuity equal to 40 percent of the officer's pay at the time of death. Because the Federal Benefit Payment is not service-based and the officer had 167 months of service as of the freeze date and 216 months of service, including unused sick leave, at death, the Federal Benefit Payment equals 167/216ths of the total benefit calculated according to plan provisions in effect on July 1, 1997. The difference between the total benefit paid and the Federal Benefit Payment calculated according to plan provisions in effect on June 29, 1997 is the responsibility of the District government.
Example 13F—Police Death Benefits
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 07/13/62
Hire date: 08/01/83
Death date: 07/31/2001
Department service: 18/00/00
Average salary: $54,000.00
Final salary: $56,000.00
Months of service: 216
Total: $56,004.00
Total/month: $4,667.00
Total based on July 1, 1997 provisions: $21,600.00
Total/month based on July 1, 1997 provisions: $1,800.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 07/13/62
Hire date: 08/01/83
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 07/31/2001
Department service: 13/11/00
Months of service: 167
Federal service ÷ total service: 0.773148
Total: $16,704.00
Total/month: $1,392.00
G. In this example, a firefighter dies on July 1, 1999 at age 47 after retiring based on a disability in the line of duty in November 1997. At separation, the firefighter was not eligible for optional retirement but was eligible to receive a deferred retirement annuity at age 55. Therefore, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated based on the plan rules for deferred retirees. Under the Police and Firefighters Plan, if a separated police officer or firefighter eligible for deferred retirement dies before reaching age 55, the survivor is eligible to receive an annuity. The survivor annuity is based on the firefighter's adjusted average pay. Therefore, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is a prorated portion of the survivor annuity. Since the firefighter had 217 months of service as of the freeze date and 222 months of service at retirement, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment equals 217/222nds of the total survivor benefit.
Example 13G—Firefighters Disability/Early Voluntary Death Benefits
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 08/20/52
Hire date: 05/14/79
Separation date: 11/28/97
Death date: 07/01/99
Department service: 18/06/15
Adjusted average salary: $45,987.00
Months of service: 222
Total: $18,396.00
Total/month: $1,533.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 08/20/52
Hire date: 05/14/79
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Death date: 07/01/99
Department service: 18/01/17
Adjusted average salary: $45,987.00
Months of service: 217
Federal service ÷ total service: .977477
Total: $17,976.00
Total/month: $1,498.00
H. In this example, a teacher dies on August 3, 1999 at age 58 after retiring based on a disability in April 1998. At separation, the teacher was not eligible for optional retirement but was eligible to receive a deferred retirement annuity at age 62. Therefore, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is calculated based on the plan rules for deferred retirees. Under the Teachers Plan, if a separated teacher eligible for deferred retirement dies before reaching age 62, the survivor is not eligible to receive an annuity. Therefore, the survivor's Federal Benefit Payment is zero and the survivor annuity is the full responsibility of the District.
Example 13H—Teachers Disability/Early Voluntary Death Benefits
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 08/01/41
Hire date: 07/01/76
Separation date: 04/30/98
Death date: 08/03/99
Total: $21,888.00
Total/month: $1,824.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 08/01/41
Hire date: 07/01/76
Separation date: 04/30/98
Death date: 08/03/99
Total: $0.00
Total/month: $0.00
Total federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.0

# Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) Examples

# Example 14: Application of Cost of Living Adjustments
In cases in which the District plan applies the same cost of living adjustment that is provided for the Federal Benefit Payment, the federal percentage is applied to the new total benefit after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
A. In this example, a teacher retiree receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. The federal percentage for the retiree is applied to the new total benefit after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14A—Teachers COLA—Retiree W/Survivor Reduction
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at retirement)
Total unreduced: $42,464.13
Total unreduced/month: $3,539.00
Total/month: $3,207.00
Federal unreduced: $41,796.28
Federal unreduced/month: $3,483.00
Federal percentage = federal unreduced/month ÷ total unreduced/month: 0.984176
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 5%:
Total COLA: $160.00
New total/month: $3,367.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $3,314.00
B. In this example, a survivor of a deceased teacher retiree receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor benefit is service related, the federal percentage for the retiree is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14B—Teachers COLA—Survivor of Retiree
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at death of retiree whose annuity was based on service—percentage survivor election)
Total/month: $2,043.00
Federal percentage (retiree): 0.984176
Federal/month: $2,011.00
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 4.5%:
Total COLA: $92.00
New total/month: $2,135.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $2,101.00
C. In this example, a survivor of a deceased teacher retiree receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is non-service related, the federal percentage for the survivor is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14C—Teachers COLA—Survivor of Retiree
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at death of retiree—flat amount survivor election)
Total months of service: 404
Federal months of service: 398
Total/month: $1,000.00
Federal percentage = federal service ÷ total service: 0.985149
Federal/month: $985.00
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 4.5%:
Total COLA: $45.00
New total/month: $1,045.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $1,029.00
Note:
This method also applies to a percentage survivor election by a retiree whose annuity was based on a guaranteed minimum.
D. In this example, a survivor of a deceased teacher receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District
portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is service related, the federal percentage based on the deceased teacher's service is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14D—Teachers COLA—Survivor of Employee
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at death—based on service)
Total/month: $1,036.00
Federal/month: $1,000.00
Federal percentage = federal/month ÷ total/month: 0.965251
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate: 5%
Total COLA: $52.00
New total benefit/month: $1,088.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $1,050.00
E. In this example, a survivor of a deceased teacher receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is non-service related, the federal percentage for the survivor is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14E—Teachers COLA—Survivor of Employee
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at death—guaranteed minimum)
Total months of service: 180
Federal months of service: 171
Total/month: $598.00
Federal percentage = federal service ÷ total service: 0.950000
Federal/month: $568.00
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 5%:
Total COLA: $30.00
New total/month: $628.00
New federal benefit/month: = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $597.00
F. In this example, a survivor of a deceased retired police officer receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is non-service related, the federal percentage for the survivor is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14F—Police COLA—Survivor of Retiree
Benefit Computation (at death of retiree)
Total months of service: 240
Federal months of service: 236
Total/month: $1,614.00
Federal percentage = federal service ÷ total service: 0.983333
Federal/month: $1,587.00
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 5%:
Total COLA: $81.00
New total/month: $1,695.00
New federal benefit/month = new total benefit/month × federal percentage = $1,667.00
G. In this example, a survivor of a deceased firefighter receives a cost of living adjustment that is the same for the federal and District portions of the total benefit. Since the survivor annuity is non-service related, the federal percentage for the survivor is applied to the new total benefit of the survivor after the adjustment to determine the new Federal Benefit Payment after the adjustment.
Example 14G—Firefighter COLA—Survivor of Employee
Benefit Computation (at death of employee in the line of duty)
Total/month: $4,667.00
Federal/month: $1,867.00
Federal percentage = federal/month
÷ Total/month: 0.400043
COLA Computation
District and Federal COLA rate 4.5%:
Total COLA: $210.00
New total benefit/month: $4,877.00
New federal benefit/month = New total benefit/month × federal percentage = $1,951.00
H. In this example, a new District plan provision applies a different cost of living adjustment than is provided for the Federal Benefit Payment. In Variation 1, the federal cost of living adjustment is applied to the Federal Benefit Payment and the District cost of living adjustment is applied to the total benefit. In Variation 2, the federal cost of living adjustment is applied to the Federal Benefit Payment and the District cost of living adjustment is applied to the District benefit payment. A new federal percentage equal to the ratio of the Federal Benefit Payment to the total benefit is established after the adjustments.
Example 14H—Teachers COLA
[Pre-96 hire]
Benefit Computation (at retirement)
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/04/48
Hire date: 03/01/86
Separation date: 02/28/2013
Department service: 27/00/00
Other service paid in 1995: 06/07/28
Excess LWOP in 1990: 00/03/18
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 23.333333
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $33,421.96
Total/month: $2,785.00
Benefit Computation (at retirement)
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/04/48
Hire date: 03/01/86
Freeze date: 06/30/1997
Department service: 11/04/00
Other service paid in 1995: 06/07/28
Excess LWOP in 1990: 00/03/18
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 7.666667
Average salary: $53,121.00
Total: $16,777.38
Total/month: $1,398.00
Federal percentage: 0.501975
COLA Computation Variations Variation 1
District COLA rate 5% applied to total benefit:
Total COLA: $139.00
New total benefit/month: $2,924.00
Federal COLA rate 4%
Federal COLA: $56.00
New federal benefit/month: $1,454.00
New federal percentage: 0.497264
Variation 2
District COLA rate 5% applied to District benefit:
Old District benefit/month: $1,387.00
District COLA: $69.00
New District benefit/month: $1,456.00
Federal COLA rate 4%:
Federal COLA: $56.00
New federal benefit/month: $1,454.00
New total benefit/month: $2,910.00
New federal percentage: 0.499656

# Retroactive Payment of Accrued Annuity Example

# Example 15: Accrual of Federal Benefit Payment
The Federal Benefit Payment begins to accrue on the annuity commencing date, regardless of whether the employee is added to the annuity roll in time for the regular payment cycle. If the employee is due a retroactive payment of accrued annuity, the portion of the retroactive payment that would have been a Federal Benefit Payment (if it were made in the regular payment cycle) is still a Federal Benefit Payment. In this example, a teacher retired effective September 11, 1998. She was added to the retirement rolls on the pay date November 1, 1998 (October 1 to October 31 accrual cycle). Her Federal Benefit Payment is $3000 per month and her total benefit payment is $3120 per month. Her initial check is $5200 because it includes a prorated payment for 20 days (September 11 to September 30). The Federal Benefit Payment is $5000 of the initial check ($3000 for the October cycle and $2000 for the September cycle).
Example 15—Teachers Accrued Benefit
[Pre-96 hire]
Total Annuity Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 09/01/66
Separation date: 09/10/98
Department service: 32/00/10
.015 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 22
Average salary: $62,150.00
Total: $37,445.38
Total/month: $3,120.00
Sept 11-30: $2,080.00
Oct 1-31: $3,120.00
Nov 1-30: $3,120.00
Federal Benefit Payment Computation
Birth date: 11/01/42
Hire date: 09/01/66
Freeze date: 06/30/97
Department service: 30/10/00
.15 service: 5
.0175 service: 5
.02 service: 20.833333
Average salary: $62,150.00
Total: $35,995.21
Total/month: $3,000.00
Sept 11-30: $2,000.00
Oct 1-31: $3,000.00
Nov 1-30: $3,000.00

# Subpart D—Claims and Appeals Procedures

# Source:
65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 29.401
Purpose.
(a) This subpart explains—
(1) The procedures that participants and beneficiaries in the Judges Plan, Police and Firefighters Plan, and the Teachers Plan must follow in applying for Federal Benefit Payments;
(2) The procedures for determining an individual's eligibility for a Federal Benefit Payment and the amount and form of an individual's Federal Benefit Payment as required by sections 11021 and 11251(a) (codified at DC Official Code section 11-1570(c)(2)(a)) of the Act;
(3) The appeal rights available under section 11022(a) of the Act and section 3 of the 2004 Act (codified at DC Official Code section 11-1570(c)(3)) to claimants whose claim for Federal Benefit Payments is denied in whole or in part; and
(4) The special rules for processing competing claimant cases.
(b) This subpart does not apply to processing collection of debts due to the United States.
(c) This part does not apply to claims and appeals filed before October 1, 1997. Such claims must be pursued with the District of Columbia.
[65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 60005, Oct. 14, 2005]
§ 29.402
Definitions.
In this subpart—
Beneficiary
means an individual designated by a participant, or by the terms of the Judges Plan, Police and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan, who is or may become entitled to a benefit under those plans.
Claimant
means any person seeking a benefit for themselves or another under the Judges Plan, Police and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan.
Department
means the Secretary of the Treasury or a designee authorized to exercise the Secretary's authority with respect to Federal Benefit Payments under the Act.
Participant
means an individual who is or may become eligible to receive a benefit under the Police and Firefighters Plan or the Teachers Plan based on credit for service accrued as of June 30, 1997, or under the Judges Plan, or whose beneficiaries may be eligible to receive any such benefit.
[65 FR 80753, Dec. 22, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 60005, Oct. 14, 2005]
§ 29.403
Applications filed with the Benefits Administrator.
All claimants for Federal Benefit Payments must file applications for benefits (including applications for retirement, refunds of contributions, and death benefits) with the Benefits Administrator.
§ 29.404
Initial benefit determinations and reconsideration by the Benefits Administrator.
(a)
Initial benefit determinations.
The Benefits Administrator will process applications for Federal Benefit Payments and determine the eligibility for and the amount and form of Federal Benefit Payments. All initial benefit determination decisions which may
reasonably be construed as a denial (in whole or part) of a claim for Federal Benefit Payments must be in writing, must advise claimants of their right to request reconsideration under paragraph (b), of this section and must state the time limits applicable to such a request.
(b)
Claimant's right to reconsideration of benefit denials.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, claimants who disagree with the amount or form of a Federal Benefit Payment determination and wish to contest the determination must first request the Benefits Administrator to reconsider its determination.
(2) A decision to collect a debt is not a denial of a benefit claim under this section.
(c)
Form and timing of requests for reconsideration.
(1) A request for reconsideration must be in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth and claim number, if applicable, and must state the basis for the request.
(2) A request for reconsideration must be received by the Benefits Administrator within 30 calendar days from the date of the written notice of the initial benefit determination.
(d)
Reconsideration decisions.
A reconsideration decision by the Benefits Administrator denying (in whole or part) a claim for a Federal Benefit Payment must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Provide adequate notice of such denial, setting forth the specific reason for the denial in a manner calculated to be understood by the average participant; and
(3) Provide notice of the right to appeal the Benefit Administrator's decision to the Department, the address to which such an appeal must be submitted, and the time limits applicable to such an appeal.
(e)
Appeal of reconsideration decisions.
The Department will review an appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.405.
§ 29.405
Appeals to the Department.
(a)
Who may file.
Any claimant whose claim for a Federal Benefit Payment has been denied (in whole or part) by the Benefits Administrator in a reconsideration decision under § 29.404(d) may appeal that decision to the Department.
(b)
Form of appeal.
An appeal must be in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth and claim number, if applicable, and must state the basis for the appeal.
(c)
Time limits on Appeals.
(1) An appeal must be received by the Department within 30 calendar days from the date of the reconsideration decision under § 29.404(d).
(2) The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the claimant shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason.
(d)
Final decision.
After consideration of the appeal, the Department will issue a final decision. The Department's decision must be in writing, must fully set forth the Department's findings and conclusions on the appeal, and must contain notice of the right to judicial review provided in § 29.406. Copies of the final decision must be sent to the claimant seeking appeal, to any competing claimants (
see
§ 29.407) and to the Benefits Administrator.
§ 29.406
Judicial review.
An individual whose claim for a Federal Benefit Payment has been denied (in whole or part) in a final decision by the Department under § 29.405 may, within 180 days of the date of the final decision, file a civil action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Any such civil action must be filed in accordance with the rules of that court.
§ 29.407
Competing claimants.
(a)
Competing claimants
are applicants for survivor benefits based on the service of a participant when—
(1) A benefit is payable based on the service of the participant;
(2) Two or more claimants have applied for benefits based on the service of the participant; and
(3) A decision in favor of one claimant will adversely affect another claimant(s).
(b)(1) When a competing claimant files a request for reconsideration under this section, the other competing claimants shall be notified of the request and given an opportunity to submit written substantiation of their claim.
(2) When the Benefits Administrator receives an application from a competing claimant(s) before any payments are made based upon the service of the participant, and an initial determination of benefits in favor of one claimant adversely affects another claimant, all known claimants concerned will be notified in writing of that decision and those adversely affected will be given an opportunity to request reconsideration under the procedures and time limitations set forth in § 29.404(c). The Benefits Administrator must not execute its decision until the time limit for filing a request for reconsideration has expired, or, if a reconsideration decision is made, until the time limit for filing an appeal to the Department has expired or the Department has issued a final decision on a timely appeal, whichever is later.
(3) When the Benefits Administrator does not receive an application from a competing claimant(s) until after another person has begun to receive payments based upon the service of the participant, the payments will continue until the time limit for filing a request for reconsideration has expired, or, if a reconsideration decision is made, until the time limit for filing an appeal to the Department has expired or the Department has issued a final decision on a timely appeal, whichever is later.

# Subpart E—Debt Collection and Waivers of Collection

# Source:
66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 29.501
Purpose; incorporation by reference; scope.
(a) This subpart regulates—
(1) The recovery of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments;
(2) The standards for waiver of recovery of overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments; and
(3) The use of Federal Benefit Payments to recover certain other debts due the United States.
(b) The regulations of this subpart incorporate by this reference all provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) (parts 900-904 of Title 31, Code of Federal Regulations), and supplement those regulations by the prescription of procedures and directives necessary and appropriate for the operation and administration of the Retirement Funds. To the extent they are not inconsistent with the regulations contained in this subpart, the regulations in part 5 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, also apply to the collection of debts under this subpart.
(c)(1)
Debts based on fraud, misrepresentation, or the presentation of a false claim.
This subpart does not apply to any overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments which arose, in whole or in part, due to fraud, misrepresentation, or the presentation of a false claim by the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim. Such debts should be referred by the Benefits Administrator immediately to the U.S. Justice Department for action pursuant to 31 CFR 900.3.
(2)
Tax debts.
This subpart does not apply to tax debts.
(d)(1) Sections 29.501 through 29.506 state the rules of general applicability to this subpart.
(2) Sections 29.511 through 29.520 prescribe procedures to be followed by the Benefits Administrator which are consistent with the FCCS in the collection of debts owed to the Retirement Funds.
(3) Sections 29.521 through 29.526 prescribe the standards that the Department will apply in decisions to waive recoupment or recovery of overpayments from the Retirement Funds under sections 11021(3) and 11251(c)(2)(B) of the Act.
(e) This part does not apply to debt collection claims asserted and requests for waivers of collection initiated before October 1, 1997. Such debt collection claims must be pursued by the District of Columbia and such requests for waivers of collection must be pursued with the District of Columbia.
[66 FR 36705, July 13, 2001, as amended at 70 FR 60005, Oct. 14, 2005]
§ 29.502
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart—
Additional charges
means interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs owed on a debt.
Administrative offset,
as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the United States.
Agency
means:
(1) An Executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, including the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission;
(2) A military department, as defined in section 102 of title 5, United States Code;
(3) An agency or court in the judicial branch, including a court as defined in section 610 of title 28, United States Code, the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation;
(4) An agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives; and
(5) Other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government.
Annuitant
means a retired participant, former spouse, spouse, widow(er), child or other beneficiary receiving recurring Federal Benefit Payments.
Annuity
means the monthly benefit (including a retirement salary under the Judges Plan) of indefinite duration payable to an annuitant.
Anticipated expenses
means expenditures which are expected to occur and for which the debtor can provide documentation of the estimated cost.
Beneficiary
means an individual designated by a participant, or by the terms of the Judges Plan, Police Officers and Firefighters Plan, or Teachers Plan, who is or may become entitled to a benefit under those plans.
Change of position for the worse
means an individual would be left in a worse financial position after recovery of the overpayment than prior to the receipt of the overpayment because the individual reasonably relied on the amount of the overpayment to his or her detriment. For example, an individual has “changed position for the worse” if he or she made expenditures or assumed new liabilities that he or she would not have otherwise done, and he or she is unable to withdraw from the commitment without incurring significant financial loss.
Compromise
means accepting less than payment in full in satisfaction of a debt.
Consent
means the debtor has agreed in writing to administrative offset of one or more Federal Benefit Payments after receiving notice of the available rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and this subpart; to Federal salary offset after receiving notice of the available rights under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 CFR part 5; and to judgment offset under section 124 of Public Law 97-276, 96 Stat. 1195-1196.
Credit bureau
has the same meaning as the definition of “consumer reporting agency” provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3).
Creditor agency
means the agency to which a debt is owed.
Debt
has the same meaning as the definition of “debt” provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(b)(1), and includes an overpayment of Federal Benefit Payments.
Debtor
means a person who owes a debt or from whom a debt is to be recovered, including an annuitant.
Delinquent
means delinquent as defined in 31 CFR 900.2(b).
Department
means the Secretary of the Treasury or a designee authorized to exercise the Secretary's authority with respect to Federal Benefit Payments under the Act.
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards (parts 900-904 of Title 31, Code of Federal Regulations).
Liquid asset
means cash or other property readily convertible into cash with little or no loss of value.
Lump-sum credit
means:
(1) Under the Judges Plan, the Police Officers and Firefighters Plan, and the Teachers Plan, the unrefunded amount consisting of—
(i) Retirement contributions from the basic salary of a participant;
(ii) Amounts deposited covering earlier creditable service; and
(iii) Such interest as authorized by statute to be included in the payment of refunds of retirement contributions; and
(2) Under the Judges Plan, “lump-sum credit for survivor annuity” is defined in section 11-1561(10) of the D.C. Code.
Offset
means to withhold the amount of a debt, or a portion of that amount, from one or more payments due the debtor. Offset also means the amount withheld in this manner.
Ordinary and necessary living expenses
means such expenses as rent, mortgage payments, utilities, maintenance, food (including expenses for dining out), clothing, insurance (life, health, and accident), taxes, installment payments, medical expenses, reasonable expenses for recreation and vacations, expenses for support of a dependent when the debtor holds primary or joint legal responsibility for such support, and other miscellaneous expenses that the debtor can establish as being ordinary and necessary.
Overpayment
or
overpayment debt
means a payment of one or more Federal Benefit Payments to an individual in the absence of entitlement or in excess of the amount to which an individual is properly entitled.
Participant
means an individual who is or may become eligible to receive a benefit under the Police Officers and Firefighters Plan or Teachers Plan based on credit for service accrued as of June 30, 1997, or under the Judges Plan, or whose beneficiaries may be eligible to receive any such benefit.
Refund
means the payment of a lump-sum credit to an individual who meets all requirements for payment and files an application for it.
Relinquish a valuable right
means the individual has relinquished a valuable privilege, claim, entitlement, or benefit having monetary worth because of the overpayment or because of notice that such a payment would be made.
Repayment schedule
means the amount of each payment and the number of payments to be made to liquidate the debt as determined by the Department or the Benefits Administrator.
Salary offset
means any offset authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716.
Substantially all,
as used in § 29.524, means that a debtor's income is less than or equal to his or her ordinary and necessary expenses plus a reasonable monthly allowance for unexpected or emergency expenses and does not allow for the deduction of a reasonable monthly installment payment to recover the debt.
Voluntary repayment agreement
means an agreement wherein the debtor makes installment payments to repay an overpayment debt in accordance with a repayment schedule agreed to by the Benefits Administrator or the Department.
Waiver
means a decision not to recover all or part of an overpayment debt owed to the Retirement Funds under authority of sections 11021(3) or 11251(c)(2)(B) of the Act.
§ 29.503
Prohibition against collection of debts.
(a) Debts may be collected from Federal Benefit Payments only to the extent expressly authorized by Federal debt collection statutes and any other applicable Federal law.
(b) When collection of a debt from Federal Benefit Payments is authorized under paragraph (a) of this section, the collection will be made in accordance with this subpart and other applicable federal law.
§ 29.504
Status of debts.
A payment of a Federal Benefit Payment to a debtor because of an error on the part of the Department or Benefits Administrator, or the failure of the creditor agency to properly and/or timely submit a debt claim, does not erase the debt or affect the validity of the claim by the creditor agency.
§ 29.505
Compromise of debts; termination and suspension of collection actions.
The procedures for compromise of a claim for an overpayment or the termination or suspension of a collection action seeking to recover an overpayment, other than waiver of an overpayment under §§ 29.521 through 29.526, are controlled exclusively by the FCCS and 31 CFR part 5.
§ 29.506
Recovery of other debts owed to the United States.
(a)
Procedures for Creditor Agencies.
Agencies seeking to recover a debt by offset of Federal Benefit Payments
payable to the debtor must comply with the offset procedures set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS. A creditor agency may seek to collect a debt through offset of Federal Benefit Payments pursuant to the Department's procedures for administrative offset set forth in 31 CFR part 5.
(b)
Offset by the Benefits Administrator.
As required by 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), the Benefits Administrator must compare payment records of the Retirement Funds with records of debts submitted to the Financial Management Service for collection by administrative offset, and must offset payments to satisfy, in whole or in part, debts owed by any annuitant.

# Collection of Overpayments
§ 29.511
Demand letters.
Except as provided in § 29.516(e), before starting collection action to recover an overpayment, the Benefits Administrator must send a demand letter that informs the debtor in writing—
(a) That an overpayment has occurred, the amount of the overpayment, and the facts giving rise to the overpayment;
(b) The date by which payment of the debt should be made to avoid additional charges (
i.e.
, interest, penalties and administrative costs) permitted by the FCCS and enforced collection;
(c) The requirement that any overpayment debt delinquent for more than 180 days be transferred to the Department of the Treasury's Financial Management Service for collection;
(d) The name, address, and phone number of the appropriate person or office the debtor may contact about the debt;
(e) The remedies which may be used to enforce payment of the debt, including assessment of interest, administrative costs and penalties; administrative wage garnishment; the use of collection agencies; Federal salary offset; tax refund offset; administrative offset; and litigation.
(f) Whether offset is available and, if so, the types of payment(s) to be offset or eligible for offset, the repayment schedule (if any), the right to request an adjustment in the repayment schedule, and the right to request a voluntary repayment agreement in lieu of offset;
(g) An explanation of the Department's policy on interest, penalties, and administrative costs as set forth in 31 CFR part 5, the FCCS, and 31 U.S.C. 3717, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the FCCS;
(h) The debtor's opportunity to request repayment in installments if the debtor can show an inability to repay the debt in one lump sum;
(i) The debtor's opportunity to inspect and/or receive a copy of the records relating to the overpayment;
(j) The method and time period (60 calendar days) for requesting reconsideration, waiver, and/or compromise of the overpayment;
(k) That all requests for waiver or compromise must be accompanied by a disclosure of the debtor's financial condition and ability to pay the debt;
(l) The standards used by the Department in deciding requests for waiver (set forth in §§ 29.521 through 29.526) and compromise (set forth in 31 CFR 902.2); and
(m) The fact that a timely filing of a request for reconsideration, waiver and/or compromise, or a subsequent timely appeal of a reconsideration decision, will stop collection proceedings, unless—
(1) Failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice the Federal Government's ability to collect the debt; and
(2) The time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of these procedures.
§ 29.512
Reconsideration by the Benefits Administrator.
(a)
Right to reconsideration of overpayment determinations.
Individuals who receive a demand letter and who wish to contest the existence or amount of the overpayment may ask the Benefits Administrator to reconsider the determination.
(b)
Requests for waiver or compromise.
Individuals who wish to seek waiver or compromise of the overpayment may file such requests with the Department under § 29.514. An individual may file a request for reconsideration in addition to a request for waiver or compromise.
(c)
Form and timing of requests for reconsideration.
(1) A request for reconsideration must be in writing and must state the basis for the request. Individuals requesting reconsideration will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position and should, to the extent possible, include such information and documentation in their request.
(2) A request for reconsideration must be received by the Benefits Administrator within 60 calendar days of the date of the demand letter. The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason.
(3) When a request for reconsideration covered by this subpart is properly filed before the death of the debtor, it will be processed to completion unless the relief sought is nullified by the debtor's death.
(d)
Reconsideration decisions.
(1) The Benefits Administrator's decision on a request for reconsideration will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information.
(2) A reconsideration decision by the Benefits Administrator must—
(i) Be in writing;
(ii) Provide notice of the extent of the individual's liability for the overpayment, if any;
(iii) If the individual is determined to be liable for all or a portion of the overpayment, reaffirm or modify the conditions for the collection of the overpayment previously proposed in the demand letter;
(iv) Provide notice of the right to appeal the Benefits Administrator's decision to the Department, the address to which such an appeal must be submitted, and the time limits applicable to such an appeal; and
(v) State that a timely appeal of the Benefits Administrator's decision to the Department will suspend action to collect the debt.
(e)
Appeal of reconsideration decisions.
The Department will review an appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.513.
§ 29.513
Appeals to the Department.
(a)
Form of appeal.
An appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.512 must be in writing and must state the basis for the appeal.
(b)
Time limits on appeals.
(1) An appeal must be received by the Department within 60 calendar days from the date of the reconsideration decision.
(2) The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason.
(c)
Final decision.
After consideration of the appeal, the Department will issue a final decision. The Department's decision will be in writing, will fully set forth the Department's findings and conclusions on the appeal, and will contain notice of the right to judicial review provided in § 29.515. If the Department determines that the individual is liable for all or a portion of the overpayment, the decision also will contain the conditions for the collection of the overpayment. Copies of the final decision will be sent to the individual seeking appeal and to the Benefits Administrator.
§ 29.514
Requests for waiver and/or compromise.
(a)
Right to request waiver and/or compromise.
Individuals who receive a demand letter regarding an overpayment may ask the Department to waive and/or compromise, in whole or part, the amount of the overpayment.
(b)
Requests for reconsideration.
Individuals who have filed a request for reconsideration under § 29.512 may also request a waiver and/or compromise under this section.
(c)
Form and timing of requests for waiver and/or compromise.
(1) A request for waiver and/or compromise must be in writing and must state the basis for the request. Individuals making such
requests will be given a full opportunity to present any pertinent information and documentation supporting their position and should, to the extent possible, include such information and documentation in their request. Individuals seeking waiver or compromise of an overpayment must also submit required financial information identified in the demand letter.
(2) A request for waiver or compromise must be filed with the Department. If the request is sent by mail, it must be postmarked within 60 calendar days of the date of the demand letter. If the request is hand delivered or delivered electronically, it must be received within 60 calendar days of the date of the demand letter. The Department may extend the time limit for filing when the individual shows that he or she was not notified of the time limit and was not otherwise aware of it, or that he or she was prevented by circumstances beyond his or her control from making the request within the time limit, or for other good and sufficient reason.
(3) When a request for waiver and/or compromise under this section is properly filed before the death of the debtor, it will be processed to completion unless the relief sought is nullified by the debtor's death.
(d)
Waiver and/or compromise decisions.
(1) The Department's decision on a request for waiver and/or compromise will be based upon the individual's written submissions, evidence of record, and other pertinent available information. An individual's request for waiver will be evaluated by the standards set forth in §§ 29.521 through 29.526. An individual's request for compromise will be evaluated by the standards set forth in the FCCS in 31 CFR part 902.
(2) A waiver or compromise decision by the Department will—
(i) Be in writing;
(ii) Provide notice of whether the overpayment will be waived or compromised, and the extent to which the individual is still liable for the overpayment, if at all;
(iii) If the individual is determined to be liable for all or a portion of the overpayment, reaffirm or modify the conditions for the collection of the overpayment previously proposed in the demand letter; and
(iv) Be issued within 120 calendar days from the Department's receipt of a timely request for waiver and/or compromise. This time limit does not apply to requests for compromise that are referred to the Department of Justice for consideration pursuant to 31 CFR 902.1(b).
§ 29.515
Judicial review.
An individual whose request for reconsideration has been denied (in whole or part) in a final decision by the Department under § 29.513 may, within 180 days of the date of the final decision, file a civil action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Any such civil action must be filed in accordance with the rules of that court.
§ 29.516
Collection of overpayments.
(a)
Means of collection.
Collection of an overpayment may be made by means of offset under § 29.517, or under any statutory provision providing for offset of money due the debtor from the Federal Government including, but not limited to, Federal Benefit Payments. Collection may also be effected by referral to the Justice Department for litigation, as provided in § 29.520, or referral to a collection agency as provided in § 29.519, or by other means authorized by federal law.
(b)
Additional charges.
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be assessed on the overpayment in accordance with standards established in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and 31 CFR 901.9. Additional charges will be waived when required by the FCCS. The Department will waive the collection of interest on the overpayment pending the Benefits Administrator's consideration of a request for reconsideration and the Department's consideration of a request for waiver and/or compromise or the appeal of a reconsideration decision. In addition, such charges may be waived when the Department determines—
(1) Collection of those charges would be against equity and good conscience under the standards prescribed in §§ 29.523 through 29.525; or
(2) Waiver of those charges would be in the best interest of the United States.
(c)
Collection in installments.
(1) Whenever feasible, overpayments will be collected in one lump sum.
(2) However, installment payments may be effected when—
(i) The debtor establishes that he or she is financially unable to pay in one lump sum; or
(ii)(A) The benefit payable is insufficient to make collection in one lump sum;
(B) The debtor fails to respond to a demand for full payment; and
(C) Offset is available.
(d)
Offset Amount.
(1) The amount offset from a monthly Federal Benefit Payment will be the lesser of:
(i) The amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties and administrative costs;
(ii) An amount equal to 15 percent of the monthly Federal Benefit Payment; or
(iii) The amount, if any, by which the monthly Federal Benefit Payment exceeds $750.
(2) For purposes of this subsection, the “monthly Federal Benefit Payment” is the amount of the gross monthly benefit after any reductions or deductions required under law, including reductions made to recover overpayments of Federal Benefit Payments.
(e)
Commencement of collection.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, collection will begin after the time limits for requesting further rights stated in §§ 29.512 through 29.514 expire and no such requests have been made, or after the Benefits Administrator and/or the Department have issued decisions on all timely requests for or appeals of those rights, unless failure to make an offset would substantially prejudice the Department's ability to collect the overpayment and the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of the proceedings in §§ 29.511 through 29.514 or litigation. When offset begins without completion of the administrative review process, these procedures will be completed promptly, and amounts recovered by offset but later found not owed will be refunded promptly.
(2) The procedures identified in §§ 29.511 through 29.514 will not be applied when the overpayment is caused by—
(i) A retroactive adjustment in the periodic rate of annuity or any deduction taken from annuity when the adjustment is a result of the annuitant's election of different entitlements under law, if the adjustment is made within 120 days of the effective date of the election; or
(ii) interim estimated payments made before the formal determination of entitlement to annuity, if the amount is recouped from the total annuity payable on the first day of the month following the later of—
(A) The last interim payment or
(B) The date the formal determination is made.
(f)
Collection of delinquent debts
—(1)
Debts delinquent over 180 days.
The Benefits Administrator must refer all overpayment debts that are over 180 days delinquent to the Secretary for collection pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 3716, and 31 CFR part 901.
(2)
Debts delinquent less than 180 days.
Once an overpayment debt becomes delinquent, the Benefits Administrator should refer it to the Secretary for collection by centralized administrative offset pursuant to 31 CFR 901.3, unless collection of the debt by some other means is likely to occur in a more timely and efficient manner.
(3) Once a debt is referred under this subsection, the Benefits Administrator has no further obligation to collect the debt.
§ 29.517
Collection by offset.
(a)
Offset from retirement payments.
An overpayment may be collected in whole or in part from any refund payment or recurring Federal Benefit Payments.
(b)
Offset from other payments
—(1)
Administrative offset.
When offset under subsection (a) is not available, an overpayment may be offset from other Federal payments due the debtor from other agencies under the procedures set forth in 31 CFR part 5 and 31 CFR 901.3(c).
(2)
Salary offset.
When the debtor is an employee of the Federal Government, the Department may effect collection of an overpayment by offset of the debtor's pay in accordance with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 (see 5 CFR part 550, subpart K; 31 CFR 285.7; and 31 CFR part 5). Due process described in the federal salary offset regulations of 31 CFR part 5 will apply. When the debtor did not receive a hearing under those regulations and requests such a hearing, one will be conducted in accordance with 5 CFR part 550, subpart K and 31 CFR part 5.
(3)
Tax refund offset.
The Department may effect collection of an overpayment by offset of the debtor's tax refund in accordance with the Department's tax refund offset regulations found at 31 CFR part 5.
§ 29.518
Reporting delinquent debts to credit bureaus.
(a)
Notice.
If a debtor's response to the demand letter does not result in payment in full, payment by offset, or payment in accordance with a voluntary repayment agreement or other repayment schedule acceptable to the Benefits Administrator, and the debtor's rights under §§ 29.512 through 29.514 have been exhausted, the Benefits Administrator must report the debtor to a credit bureau. In addition, a debtor's failure to make subsequent payments in accordance with a repayment schedule must result in a report to a credit bureau. Before making a report to a credit bureau, the Benefits Administrator must notify the debtor in writing that—
(1) The payment is overdue;
(2) The Benefits Administrator intends, after 60 days, to make a report as described in paragraph (b) of this section to a credit bureau;
(3) The debtor's right to dispute the liability has been exhausted under §§ 29.512 through 29.514; and
(4) The debtor may avoid having the Benefits Administrator report the debtor to a credit bureau by paying the debt in one lump sum or making payments current under a repayment schedule.
(b)
Report.
If, after being sent the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section, the debtor does not pay the overpayment debt or make payments current under a repayment schedule or fails to respond to the notice, and 60 days have elapsed since the notice was mailed, the Benefits Administrator will report to a credit bureau that the debtor is responsible for an unpaid debt and provide the following information:
(1) The debtor's name, address, taxpayer identification number, and any other information necessary to establish the identity of the individual;
(2) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and
(3) The fact that the debt arose in connection with the administration of Federal Benefit Payments under a District Retirement Fund.
(c)
Subsequent reports.
The Benefits Administrator must update its report to the credit bureau whenever it has knowledge of events that substantially change the status or the amount of the liability.
(d)
Other reporting of delinquent debts.
Pursuant to 31 CFR 901.4, delinquent overpayment debts should be reported to the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS).
(e)
Privacy Act considerations.
A delinquent debt may not be reported under this section unless a notice issued pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4), authorizes the disclosure of information about the debtor to a credit bureau or CAIVRS.
§ 29.519
Referral to a collection agency.
(a) The Department retains the responsibility for resolving disputes, compromising debts, referring overpayment debts for litigation, and suspending or terminating collection action.
(b) The Department may not refer overpayment debts to commercial collection agencies until all procedures required by or requested under §§ 29.511 through 29.514 have been completed.
§ 29.520
Referral for litigation.
The Department may refer to the Justice Department for litigation overpayment debts which cannot be compromised or waived, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, and which the Department has been unable to recover pursuant to the collection activity described in §§ 29.511 through 29.519. (See 31 CFR part 904.) Such debts should be referred to the Justice Department as early as possible, but at least within 1 year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of overpayments arising from fraud, misrepresentation, or the presentation of a false claim, referral should be made to the Justice Department immediately. (See 31 CFR 900.3(a).) Referral of a debt to the Justice Department will suspend processing under §§ 29.511 through 29.519 of this subpart.

# Standards for Waiver of Overpayments
§ 29.521
Conditions for waiver and other adjustments.
(a)
General.
Overpayments made from the Retirement Funds will be recovered unless there is substantial evidence that the individual from whom recovery is to be made is eligible for waiver.
(b)
Waiver.
The Department may waive an overpayment from the Retirement Funds (provided there is no indication of fraud, misrepresentation, or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor) under sections 11021(3) or 11251(c)(2)(B) of the Act when it is established by substantial evidence that the individual from whom recovery is to be made—
(1) Is not at fault in causing or contributing to the overpayment, and
(2) Recovery would be against equity and good conscience.
(c)
Adjustment in the installment schedule.
(1)(i) An overpayment will not be waived because of financial hardship if a reasonable installment schedule can be established for repayment of the debt by adjusting the installment schedule originally established.
(ii) For example, if the Department finds that the original installment schedule—24 installments at $125 each—causes the debtor financial hardship, but that repayment in 60 installments at $50 each does not, it may adjust the installments and recover the debt in full.
(2) Where it has been determined that an individual is ineligible for a waiver, but the individual has shown that collection action pursuant to the original installment schedule would cause him or her financial hardship, the Department may—
(i) Adjust the installment schedule if the individual shows that it would cause him or her financial hardship to make payments at the rate initially scheduled by the Department; or
(ii) Terminate the collection action under 31 CFR 903.3 if the costs of collecting the debt are anticipated to exceed the amount recoverable.
§ 29.522
Fault.
(a)
General rule.
A debtor is considered to be at fault if he or she, or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim, caused or contributed to the accrual of the overpayment. The Department considers a debtor or any other person having an interest in obtaining a waiver of the claim to have caused or contributed to the accrual of an overpayment if—
(1) Payment resulted from the individual's incorrect but not fraudulent statement, which the individual knew or should have known to be incorrect; or
(2) Payment resulted from the individual's failure to disclose facts in his or her possession which the individual knew or should have known were material, when the Department has identified that the individual has a duty to report and has clearly notified the individual of this reporting requirement.
(3) The following factors may affect the decision as to whether the debtor is or is not at fault where the debtor submitted an incorrect statement, or the debtor failed to disclose material facts in his or her possession—
(i) The debtor's age;
(ii) The debtor's physical and/or mental condition; and
(iii) The availability and nature of the information provided to the debtor by the Department.
(b)
Knowledge of an overpayment.
(1) Individuals who are aware that they
are not entitled to a payment or are aware that a payment is higher than the payment to which they are entitled are not considered to have contributed to the overpayment if they promptly contact the Benefits Administrator and question the correctness of the payment and take no further action in reliance of the overpayment.
(2) Any contact made with the Benefits Administrator concerning the overpayment within 60 days of receipt (if the overpayment is a recurring payment, contact must be made within 60 days of the initial payment) will satisfy the prompt notification requirement.
(c)
Reasonable person standard.
The Department will use a reasonable person standard to determine whether an individual should have known that a statement was incorrect or that material facts in the individual's possession should have been disclosed. The reasonable person standard will take into account the objective factors set forth is paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
§ 29.523
Equity and good conscience.
Recovery is against equity and good conscience when there is substantial evidence that—
(a) It would cause financial hardship to the person from whom it is sought no matter what the amount and length of the proposed installment;
(b) The recipient of the overpayment can show (regardless of his or her financial circumstances) that due to the notice that such payment would be made or because of the incorrect payment he or she either has relinquished a valuable right or has changed positions for the worse; or
(c) Recovery would be unconscionable under the circumstances.
§ 29.524
Financial hardship.
Financial hardship may be deemed to exist when the debtor needs substantially all of his or her current and anticipated income and liquid assets to meet current and anticipated ordinary and necessary living expenses during the projected period of collection. Financial hardship will not be found to exist when the debtor merely establishes that the repayment causes a financial burden,
i.e.
, when it is inconvenient to repay the debt. If there are anticipated changes in income or expenses that would allow for the recovery of the overpayment at a later date, the Department may suspend collection action until a future date.
(a)
Considerations.
Pertinent considerations in determining whether recovery would cause financial hardship include the following:
(1) The debtor's financial ability to pay at the time collection is scheduled to be made, and
(2) Income to other family member(s), if such member's ordinary and necessary living expenses are included in expenses reported by the debtor.
§ 29.525
Ordinary and necessary living expenses.
An individual's ordinary and necessary living expenses include rent, mortgage payments, utilities, maintenance, transportation, food, clothing, insurance (life, health, and accident), taxes, installment payments for which the individual is already liable, medical expenses, support expenses for which the individual is legally responsible, and other miscellaneous expenses that the individual can establish as being ordinary and necessary.
§ 29.526
Waiver precluded.
Waivers will not be offered or granted when—
(1) The overpayment was obtained by fraud, misrepresentation, or by improper negotiation of checks or withdrawal of electronic fund transfer payments after the death of the payee; or
(2) The overpayment was made to an estate and a timely demand for repayment is made prior to the final disbursement by the administrator or executor of the estate.
Pt. 31

# PART 31—TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM
Sec.
31.1
General.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Conflicts of Interest
31.200
Purpose and scope.
31.201
Definitions.
31.211-31.216
[RESERVED]
31.217
Confidentiality of information.
31.218
Enforcement.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321; Pub. L. 110-343; 122 Stat. 3765.

# Source:
76 FR 61049, Oct. 3, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 31.1
General.
This part sets forth regulations to implement and administer the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-343; 122 Stat. 3765).
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Conflicts of Interest
§ 31.200
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This regulation sets forth standards to address and manage or to prohibit conflicts of interest that may arise in connection with the administration and execution of the authorities under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), established under sections 101 and 102 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA).
(b)
Scope.
This regulation addresses actual and potential conflicts of interest, or circumstances that give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest, that may arise from contracts and financial agency agreements between private sector entities and the Treasury for services under the TARP, other than administrative services identified by the TARP Chief Compliance Officer.
§ 31.201
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Arrangement
means a contract or financial agency agreement between a private sector entity and the Treasury for services under the TARP, other than administrative services identified by the TARP Chief Compliance Officer.
Dependent child
means a son, daughter, stepson or stepdaughter who is either (a) Unmarried, under age 21, and living in the individual's house, or (b) considered a “dependent” of the individual under the U.S. tax code.
EESA
means the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended.
Key individual
means an individual providing services to a private sector entity who participates personally and substantially, through, for example, decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, or the rendering of advice, in the negotiation or performance of, or monitoring for compliance under, the arrangement with the Treasury. For purposes of the definition of key individual, the words “personally and substantially” shall have the same meaning and interpretation as such words have in 5 CFR 2635.402(b)(4).
Organizational conflict of interest
means a situation in which the retained entity has an interest or relationship that could cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the retained entity's objectivity or judgment to perform under the arrangement, or its ability to represent the Treasury. Without limiting the scope of this definition, organizational conflicts of interest may include the following situations:
(1) A prior or current arrangement between the Treasury and the retained entity that may give the retained entity an unfair competitive advantage in obtaining a new arrangement with Treasury.
(2) The retained entity is, or represents, a party in litigation against the Treasury relating to activities under the EESA.
(3) The retained entity provides services for Treasury relating to the acquisition, valuation, disposition, or management of troubled assets at the same time it provides those services for itself or others.
(4) The retained entity gains, or stands to gain, an unfair competitive advantage in private business arrangements or investments by using information provided under an arrangement or obtained or developed pursuant to an arrangement with Treasury.
(5) The retained entity is a potential candidate for relief under EESA, is currently participating in an EESA program, or has a financial interest that could be affected by its performance of the arrangement.
(6) The retained entity maintains a business or financial relationship with institutions that have received funds from Treasury pursuant to the EESA.
Personal conflict of interest
means a personal, business, or financial interest
of an individual, his or her spouse or any dependent child that could adversely affect the individual's ability to perform under the arrangement, his or her objectivity or judgment in such performance, or his or her ability to represent the interests of the Treasury.
Related entity
means the parent company and subsidiaries of a retained entity, any entity holding a controlling interest in the retained entity, and any entity in which the retained entity holds a controlling interest.
Retained entity
means the individual or entity seeking an arrangement with the Treasury or having such an arrangement with the Treasury, but does not include special government employees. A “retained entity” includes the subcontractors and consultants it hires to perform services under the arrangement.
Special government employee
means an officer or employee serving the Treasury, serving with or without compensation, for a period not to exceed 130 days during any 365-day period on a full-time or intermittent basis.
Treasury
means the United States Department of the Treasury.
Treasury employee
means an officer or employee of the Treasury, including a special government employee, or an employee of any other government agency who is properly acting on behalf of the Treasury.
Troubled assets,
for purposes of this rule, shall have the same meaning as set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5202(9).
§§ 31.211-31.216
[Reserved]
§ 31.217
Confidentiality of information.
(a)
Nonpublic information defined.
Any information that Treasury provides to a retained entity under an arrangement, or that the retained entity obtains or develops pursuant to the arrangement, shall be deemed nonpublic until the Treasury determines otherwise in writing, or the information becomes part of the body of public information from a source other than the retained entity.
(b)
Prohibitions.
The retained entity shall not:
(1) Disclose nonpublic information to anyone except as required to perform the retained entity's obligations pursuant to the arrangement, or pursuant to a lawful court order or valid subpoena after giving prior notice to Treasury.
(2) Use or allow the use of any nonpublic information to further any private interest other than as contemplated by the arrangement.
(c)
Retained entity's responsibility.
A retained entity shall take appropriate measures to ensure the confidentiality of nonpublic information and to prevent its inappropriate use. The retained entity shall document these measures in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance, and shall maintain this documentation for three years after the arrangement has terminated. The retained entity shall notify the TARP Chief Compliance Officer in writing within five business days of detecting a violation of the prohibitions in paragraph (b), above. The security measures required by this paragraph shall include:
(1) Security measures to prevent unauthorized access to facilities and storage containers where nonpublic information is stored.
(2) Security measures to detect and prevent unauthorized access to computer equipment and data storage devices that store or transmit nonpublic information.
(3) Periodic training to ensure that persons receiving nonpublic information know their obligation to maintain its confidentiality and to use it only for purposes contemplated by the arrangement.
(4) Programs to ensure compliance with federal securities laws, including laws relating to insider trading, when the arrangement relates to the acquisition, valuation, management, or disposition of troubled assets.
(5) A certification from each key individual stating that he or she will comply with the requirements in section 31.217(b). The retained entity shall obtain this certification, in the form of a nondisclosure agreement, before a key individual performs work under the arrangement, and then annually thereafter.
(d)
Certification.
No later than ten business days after the effective date of the arrangement, the retained entity shall certify to the Treasury that it has received a certification form from
each key individual stating that he or she will comply with the requirements in § 31.217(b). In making this certification, the retained entity may rely on the information obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, unless the retained entity knows or should have known that the information provided is false or inaccurate.
§ 31.218
Enforcement.
(a) Compliance with these rules concerning conflicts of interest is of the utmost importance. In the event a retained entity or any individual or entity providing information pursuant to 31 U.S.C. part 31 violates any of these rules, Treasury may impose or pursue one or more of the following sanctions:
(1) Rejection of work tainted by an organizational conflict of interest or a personal conflict of interest and denial of payment for that work.
(2) Termination of the arrangement for default.
(3) Debarment of the retained entity for Federal government contracting and/or disqualification of the retained entity from future financial agency agreements.
(4) Imposition of any other remedy available under the terms of the arrangement or at law.
(5) In the event of violation of a criminal statute, referral to the Department of Justice for prosecution of the retained entity and/or its officers or employees. In such cases, the Department of Justice may make direct and derivative use of any statements and information provided by any entity, its representatives and employees or any individual, to the extent permitted by law.
(b) To the extent Treasury has discretion in selecting or imposing a remedy, it will give significant consideration to a retained entity's prompt disclosure of any violation of these rules.
Pt. 32

# PART 32—PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDITS

# Authority:
Public Law 111-5.
§ 32.1
Timing of disbursements.
(a) State housing credit agencies that receive funds under section 1602 of Division B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 must make subawards to subawardees to finance the construction or acquisition and rehabilitation of low-income housing no later than December 31, 2010. Any funds that are not used to make subawards by December 31, 2010, must be returned to the Treasury by January 1, 2011.
(b) The requirement in subsection (a) above does not prevent State housing credit agencies from continuing to disburse funds to subawardees after December 31, 2010 provided:
(1) A subaward has been made to the subawardee on or before December 31, 2010;
(2) The subawardee has, by the close of 2010, paid or incurred at least 30 percent of the subawardee's total adjusted basis in land and depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of the low-income housing project; and
(3) Any funds not disbursed to the subawardee by December 31, 2011, must be returned to the Treasury by January 1, 2012.
[74 FR 44752, Aug. 31, 2009]
Pt. 33

# PART 33—WAIVERS FOR STATE INNOVATION
Sec.
33.100
Basis and purpose.
33.102
Coordinated waiver process.
33.104
Definitions.
33.108
Application procedures.
33.112
State public notice requirements.
33.116
Federal public notice and approval process.
33.118
Modification from the normal public notice requirements during an emergent situation.
33.120
Monitoring and compliance.
33.122
Pass-through funding for approved waivers.
33.124
State reporting requirements.
33.128
Periodic evaluation requirements.
33.130
Waiver amendment.
33.132
Waiver extension.

# Authority:
Sec. 1332, Pub. L. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119.

# Source:
77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 33.100
Basis and purpose.
(a)
Statutory basis.
This part implements provisions of section 1332 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Affordable Care Act), Public Law 111-148, relating to Waivers for State Innovation, which the Secretary may authorize for plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2017. Section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act requires the Secretary to issue regulations that provide for all of the following:
(1) A process for public notice and comment at the State level, including public hearings, sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input.
(2) A process for the submission of an application that ensures the disclosure of all of the following:
(i) The provisions of law that the State involved seeks to waive.
(ii) The specific plans of the State to ensure that the waiver will meet all requirements specified in section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act.
(3) A process for the provision of public notice and comment after a waiver application is received by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, that is sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input and that does not impose requirements that are in addition to, or duplicative of, requirements imposed under the Administrative Procedures Act, or requirements that are unreasonable or unnecessarily burdensome with respect to State compliance.
(4) A process for the submission of reports to the Secretary by a State relating to the implementation of a waiver.
(5) A process for the periodic evaluation by the Secretary of programs under waivers.
(b)
Purpose.
This part sets forth certain procedural requirements for Waivers for State Innovation under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act.
§ 33.102
Coordinated waiver process.
(a)
Coordination with applications for waivers under other Federal laws.
A State may submit a single application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for a waiver under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act and a waiver under one or more of the existing waiver processes applicable under titles XVIII, XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, or under any other Federal law relating to the provision of health care items or services, provided that such application is consistent with the procedures described in this part, the procedures for demonstrations under section 1115 of the Social Security Act, if applicable, and the procedures under any other applicable Federal law under which the State seeks a waiver.
(b)
Coordinated process for section 1332 waivers.
A State seeking a section 1332 waiver must submit a waiver application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Any application submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services that requests to waive sections 36B, 4980H, or 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code, in accordance with section 1332(a)(2)(D) of the Affordable Care Act, shall upon receipt be transmitted by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the Secretary to be reviewed in accordance with this part.
§ 33.104
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Complete application
means an application that has been submitted and for which the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made a preliminary determination that it includes all required information and satisfies all requirements that are described in § 33.108(f).
Public notice
means a notice issued by a government agency or legislative body that contains sufficient detail to notify the public at large of a proposed action consistent with § 33.112.
Section 1332 waiver
means a Waiver for State Innovation under section 1332 of the Affordable Care Act.
§ 33.108
Application procedures.
(a)
Acceptable formats for applications.
Applications for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver shall be submitted in electronic format to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b)
Application timing.
Applications for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver must be submitted sufficiently in advance of the requested effective date to allow for an appropriate implementation timeline.
(c)
Preliminary review.
Each application for a section 1332 waiver will be
subject to a preliminary review by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, who will make a preliminary determination that the application is complete. A submitted application will not be deemed received until the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made the preliminary determination that the application is complete.
(1) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will complete the preliminary review of the application within 45 days after it is submitted.
(2) If the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services determine that the application is not complete, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will send the State a written notice of the elements missing from the application.
(3) The preliminary determination that an application is complete does not preclude a finding during the 180-day Federal decision-making period that a necessary element of the application is missing or insufficient.
(d)
Notification of preliminary determination.
Upon making the preliminary determination that an application is complete, as defined in this part, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will send the State a written notice informing the State that the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have made such a preliminary determination. That date will also mark the beginning of the Federal public notice process and the 180-day Federal decision-making period.
(e)
Public notice of completed application.
Upon receipt of a complete application for an initial section 1332 waiver, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will—
(1) Make available to the public the application, and all related State submissions, including all supplemental information received from the State following the receipt of a complete application for a section 1332 waiver.
(2) Indicate the status of the application.
(f)
Criteria for a complete application.
An application for initial approval of a section 1332 waiver will not be considered complete unless the application meets all of the following conditions:
(1) Complies with paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.
(2) Provides written evidence of the State's compliance with the public notice requirements set forth in § 33.112, including a description of the key issues raised during the State public notice and comment period.
(3) Provides all of the following:
(i) A comprehensive description of the State legislation and program to implement a plan meeting the requirements for a waiver under section 1332 of PPACA. In analyzing whether the State has satisfied the requirement under section 1332(b)(2)(A) of PPACA that the State enact a law authorizing a waiver under section 1332 of PPACA, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, may consider existing State legislation combined with duly-enacted State regulation or an executive order so long as the State legislation provides statutory authority to enforce PPACA provisions or the State plan;
(ii) A copy of the enacted State legislation that provides the State with authority to implement the proposed waiver, as required under section 1332(a)(1)(C) of the Affordable Care Act;
(iii) A list of the provisions of law that the State seeks to waive, including a description of the reason for the specific requests; and
(iv) The analyses, actuarial certifications, data, assumptions, targets, and other information set forth in paragraph (f)(4) of this section sufficient to provide the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, with the necessary data to determine that the State's proposed waiver satisfies the general requirements for approval under section 1332(b)(1) of the Affordable Care Act consistent with the provisions of this paragraph (f)(3)(iv):
(A) As required under section 1332(b)(1)(A) of the Affordable Care Act (the comprehensive coverage requirement), will provide coverage that is at least as comprehensive as the coverage defined in section 1302(b) of the Affordable Care Act and offered through Exchanges established under the Affordable Care Act as certified by the Office
of the Actuary of the Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services based on sufficient data from the State and from comparable States about their experience with programs created by the Affordable Care Act and the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that the State seeks to waive. To satisfy the comprehensive coverage requirement, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, must determine that the coverage under the State plan is forecasted to be at least as comprehensive overall for residents of the State as coverage absent the waiver;
(B) As required under section 1332(b)(1)(B) of the Affordable Care Act (the affordability requirement), will provide coverage and cost sharing protections against excessive out-of-pocket spending that are at least as affordable as the provisions of Title I of the Affordable Care Act would provide. To satisfy the affordability requirement, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, must determine that the coverage under the State plan is forecasted to be as affordable overall for State residents as coverage absent the waiver;
(C) As required under section 1332(b)(1)(C) of the Affordable Care Act (the scope of coverage requirement), will provide coverage to at least a comparable number of its residents as the provisions of Title I of the Affordable Care Act would provide. To satisfy the scope of coverage requirement, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Health and Human Services, as applicable, must determine that the State plan will provide coverage to a comparable number of State residents under the waiver as would have coverage absent the waiver; and
(D) As prohibited under section 1332(b)(1)(D) of the Affordable Care Act (the Federal deficit requirement), will not increase the Federal deficit.
(4) Contains the following supporting information:
(i)
Actuarial analyses and actuarial certifications.
Actuarial analyses and actuarial certifications to support the State's estimates that the proposed waiver will comply with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, and the scope of coverage requirement.
(ii)
Economic analyses.
Economic analyses to support the State's estimates that the proposed waiver will comply with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement and the Federal deficit requirement, including:
(A) A detailed 10-year budget plan that is deficit neutral to the Federal government, as prescribed by section 1332(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Affordable Care Act, and includes all costs under the waiver, including administrative costs and other costs to the Federal government, if applicable; and
(B) A detailed analysis regarding the estimated impact of the waiver on health insurance coverage in the State.
(iii)
Data and assumptions.
The data and assumptions used to demonstrate that the State's proposed waiver is in compliance with the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement and the Federal deficit requirement, including:
(A) Information on the age, income, health expenses and current health insurance status of the relevant State population; the number of employers by number of employees and whether the employer offers insurance; cross-tabulations of these variables; and an explanation of data sources and quality; and
(B) An explanation of the key assumptions used to develop the estimates of the effect of the waiver on coverage and the Federal budget, such as individual and employer participation rates, behavioral changes, premium and price effects, and other relevant factors.
(iv)
Implementation timeline.
A detailed draft timeline for the State's implementation of the proposed waiver.
(v)
Additional information.
Additional information supporting the State's proposed waiver, including:
(A) An explanation as to whether the waiver increases or decreases the administrative burden on individuals, insurers, and employers, and if so, how and why;
(B) An explanation of how the waiver will affect the implementation of the
provisions of the Affordable Care Act which the State is not requesting to waive in the State and at the Federal level;
(C) An explanation of how the waiver will affect residents who need to obtain health care services out-of-State, as well as the States in which such residents may seek such services;
(D) If applicable, an explanation as to how the State will provide the Federal government with all information necessary to administer the waiver at the Federal level; and
(E) An explanation of how the State's proposal will address potential individual, employer, insurer, or provider compliance, waste, fraud and abuse within the State or in other States.
(vi)
Reporting targets.
Quarterly, annual, and cumulative targets for the comprehensive coverage requirement, the affordability requirement, the scope of coverage requirement, and the Federal deficit requirement.
(vii)
Other information.
Other information consistent with guidance provided by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(g)
Additional supporting information.
(1) During the Federal review process, the Secretary may request additional supporting information from the State via the Secretary of Health and Human Services as needed to address public comments or to address issues that arise in reviewing the application.
(2) Requests for additional information, and responses to such requests, will be made available to the public in the same manner as information described in § 33.116(b).
[77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 6176, Jan. 19, 2021; 86 FR 53501, Sept. 27, 2021]
§ 33.112
State public notice requirements.
(a)
General.
(1) Prior to submitting an application for a new section 1332 waiver to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for review and consideration, a State must provide a public notice and comment period sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input for the application for a section 1332 waiver.
(2) Such public notice and comment period shall include, for a State with one or more Federally-recognized Indian tribes within its borders, a separate process for meaningful consultation with such tribes.
(b)
Public notice and comment period.
The State shall make available at the beginning of the public notice and comment period, through its Web site or other effective means of communication, and shall update as appropriate, a public notice that includes all of the following:
(1) A comprehensive description of the application for a section 1332 waiver to be submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services including information and assurances related to all statutory requirements and other information consistent with guidance provided by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(2) Information relating to where copies of the application for a section 1332 waiver are available for public review and comment.
(3) Information relating to how and where written comments may be submitted and reviewed by the public, and the timeframe during which comments will be accepted.
(4) The location, date, and time of public hearings that will be convened by the State to seek public input on the application for a section 1332 waiver.
(c)
Public hearings.
(1) After issuing the public notice and prior to submitting an application for a new section 1332 waiver, a State must conduct public hearings regarding the State's application.
(2) Such public hearings shall provide an interested party the opportunity to learn about and comment on the contents of the application for a section 1332 waiver.
(3) Such public hearings shall be conducted in an in-person, virtual (that is, one that uses telephonic, digital, and/or web-based platforms), or hybrid (that is, one that provides for both in-person and virtual attendance) format.
(d)
Submission of initial application.
After the State public notice and comment period has concluded, the State may submit an application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services
for an initial waiver in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 33.108.
[77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 26418, Apr. 15, 2024]
§ 33.116
Federal public notice and approval process.
(a)
General.
The Federal public notice and approval process begins on the first business day after the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services determine that all elements for a complete application were documented and submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b)
Public notice and comment period.
(1) Following a determination that a State's application for a section 1332 waiver is complete, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will provide for a public notice and comment period that is sufficient to ensure a meaningful level of public input and that does not impose requirements that are in addition to, or duplicative of, requirements imposed under the Administrative Procedures Act, or requirements that are unreasonable or unnecessarily burdensome with respect to State compliance.
(2) At the beginning of the Federal notice and comment period, the Secretary of Health and Human Services will make available through its Web site and otherwise, and shall update as appropriate, public notice that includes all of the following:
(i) The complete application for a section 1332 waiver, updates for the status of the State's application, and any supplemental materials received from the State prior to and during the Federal public notice and comment period.
(ii) Information relating to where copies of the application for a section 1332 waiver are available for public review and comment.
(iii) Information relating to how and where written comments may be submitted and reviewed by the public, and the timeframe during which comments will be accepted.
(iv) Any public comments received during the Federal public notice and comment period.
(c)
Approval of a section 1332 waiver application.
The final decision of the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services on a State application for a section 1332 waiver will be issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services no later than 180 days after the determination by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services that a complete application was received in accordance with § 33.108.
§ 33.118
Modification from the normal public notice requirements during an emergent situation.
(a) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services may modify, in part, the State public notice requirements under § 33.112(a)(1), (b), (c), and (d) and the Federal public notice procedures under § 33.116(b) to expedite a decision on a proposed section 1332 waiver request during an emergent situation, when a delay would undermine or compromise the purpose of the proposed waiver request and be contrary to the interests of consumers. These flexibilities are limited to emergent situations, including natural disasters; public health emergencies; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life.
(b) A State must meet all of the following criteria to request a modification under paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) The State must request a modification under paragraph (a) of this section, in the form and manner specified by the Secretaries.
(2) The State must have acted in good faith, and in a diligent, timely, and prudent manner in the preparation of the request for a modification under paragraph (a) of this section, and the waiver application request, as applicable.
(3) The State must, as applicable, detail in its request for a modification from State-level notice procedures under paragraph (a) of this section the justification for the request as it relates to the emergent situation and the alternative public notice procedures it proposes to implement at the State level, including public hearings, that are designed to provide the greatest opportunity and level of meaningful public input from impacted stakeholders
that is practicable given the emergency circumstances underlying the State's request for a modification.
(4) The State must, as applicable, detail in its request for a modification from Federal-level notice procedures under paragraph (a) of this section the justification for the request as it relates to the public health emergency and the alternative public notice procedures it requests to be implemented at the Federal level.
(5) The State must explain in its request for a modification from State-level notice procedures under paragraph (a) of this section how the emergent circumstances underlying its request results from a natural disaster; public health emergency; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life could not reasonably have been foreseen and how a delay would undermine or compromise the purpose of the waiver and be contrary to the interests of consumers.
(c) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will evaluate a State's request for a modification under paragraph (a) of this section and issue their exemption determination within approximately 15 calendar days after the request is received.
(d) The Secretary of Health and Human Services will publish on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) website any modification determinations within 15 calendar days of the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services making such a determination, as well as the approved revised timeline for public comment under the approved alternative State or Federal public notice procedures, as applicable.
(e) The State must publish on its website any modification requests and determinations within 15 calendar days of receipt of the determination, as well as the approved revised timeline for public comment under the alternative State or Federal public notice procedures, as applicable.
(f) The State must, as applicable, implement the alternative public notice procedures at the State level if the State's exemption request is approved and, if required, amend the waiver application request.
(g) The Departments will consider circumstances to be emergent when they could not have been reasonably foreseen. The Departments will assess “reasonable foreseeability” based on the specific issues that a section 1332 waiver proposes to address and other relevant factors, and will not make this assessment based solely on the number of days a State may have been aware of such issues.
[85 FR 71196, Nov. 6, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 53501, Sept. 27, 2021]
§ 33.120
Monitoring and compliance.
(a)
General.
(1) Following the issuance of a final decision to approve a section 1332 waiver by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, a State must comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations, unless expressly waived. A State must, within the timeframes specified in law and regulation come into compliance with any changes in Federal law and regulation affecting section 1332 waivers, unless the provision being changed is expressly waived.
(2) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will examine compliance with Federal and regulatory requirements consistent with § 155.1308(f)(3)(iv) when conducting implementation reviews under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Implementation reviews.
(1) The terms and conditions of an approved section 1332 waiver will provide that the State will perform periodic reviews of the implementation of the section 1332 waiver.
(2) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will review documented complaints that a State is failing to comply with requirements specified in the terms and conditions of any approved section 1332 waiver.
(3) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will promptly share with a State any complaint that the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services has received and will also provide notification of any applicable monitoring and compliance issues.
(c)
Post award.
Within at least 6 months after the implementation date of a section 1332 waiver and annually thereafter, a State must hold a public forum to solicit comments on the progress of a section 1332 waiver. The State must hold the public forum at which members of the public have an opportunity to provide comments and must provide a summary of the forum to the Secretary as part of the quarterly report specified in § 33.124(a) that is associated with the quarter in which the forum was held, as well as in the annual report specified in § 33.124(b) that is associated with the year in which the forum was held. The public forum shall be conducted in an in-person, virtual (that is, one that uses telephonic, digital, and/or web-based platforms), or hybrid (that is, one that provides for both in-person and virtual attendance) format.
(1)
Notification requirements for public forum.
The State must publish the date, time, and location of the public forum in a prominent location on the State's public Web site, at least 30 days prior to the date of the planned public forum.
(2)
Modification from the normal post-award requirements during the public health emergency.
(i) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services may modify, in part, State post award requirements under this paragraph (c)(2) for an approved section 1332 waiver request during an emergent situation, when the application of the post award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers. These flexibilities are limited to emergent situations, including natural disasters; public health emergencies; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life.
(ii) A State must meet all of the following criteria to request a modification under paragraph (c) of this section:
(A) The State must request a modification under this paragraph (c)(2), in the form and manner specified by the Secretaries.
(B) The State must have acted in good faith, and in a diligent, timely, and prudent manner to comply with the monitoring and compliance requirement under the waiver and the terms and conditions of the agreement between the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, and the State to implement a section 1332 waiver and to submit and prepare the request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2).
(C) The State must detail in its request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2) the alternative post award public notice procedures it proposes to implement at the State level, including public hearings, that are designed to provide the greatest opportunity and level of meaningful public input from impacted stakeholders that is practicable given the emergency circumstances underlying the State's request for a modification.
(D) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will evaluate a State's request for a modification under this paragraph (c)(2) and issue their modification determination within approximately 15 calendar days after the request is received.
(E) The State must publish on its website any modification requests and determinations within 15 calendar days of the receipt of the determination as well as information on the approved revised timeline for the state's post award public notice procedures, as applicable.
(F) The State must explain in its request for modification under this paragraph (c)(2) how the emergent circumstances underlying its request results from a natural disaster; public health emergency; or other emergent situations that threaten consumers' access to comprehensive coverage, consumers' access to health care, or human life and could not reasonably have been foreseen and how the application of the post-award public notice requirements would be contrary to the interests of consumers.
(iii) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will consider circumstances to be emergent when they could not have been reasonably foreseen. The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services will assess “reasonable foreseeability” based on the specific
issues that a section 1332 waiver proposes to address and other relevant factors, and will not make this assessment based solely on the number of days a State may have been aware of such issues.
(d)
Terminations and suspensions.
The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services reserve the right to suspend or terminate a section 1332 waiver in whole or in part, at any time before the date of expiration, whenever the Secretaries determine that a State has materially failed to comply with the terms of a section 1332 waiver.
(e)
Closeout costs.
If all or part of a section 1332 waiver is terminated or suspended, or if a portion of a section 1332 waiver is withdrawn, Federal funding is limited to normal closeout costs associated with an orderly termination, suspension, or withdrawal, including service costs during any approved transition period, and administrative costs of disenrolling participants.
(f)
Federal evaluators.
(1) A State must fully cooperate with the Secretary, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or an independent evaluator selected by the Secretary or the Secretary of Health and Human Services to undertake an independent evaluation of any component of a section 1332 waiver.
(2) As part of this required cooperation, a State must submit all requested data and information to the Secretary, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or the independent evaluator.
[77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 71196, Nov. 6, 2020; 86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021; 89 FR 26418, Apr. 15, 2024]
§ 33.122
Pass-through funding for approved waivers.
(a)
Pass-through funding.
With respect to a State's approved section 1332 waiver, under which, due to the structure of the approved State waiver plan, individuals and small employers in the State would not qualify for or would qualify for a reduced amount of premium tax credit under section 36B of the Internal Revenue Code, small business tax credit under section 45R of the Internal Revenue Code, or cost-sharing reductions under ACA part I of subtitle E for which they would otherwise be eligible, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Health and Human Services shall provide for an alternative means by which the aggregate amount of such credits or reductions that would have been paid on behalf of participants in the Exchanges had the State not received such waiver shall be paid to the State for purposes of implementing the approved State waiver plan. Such amount shall be determined annually by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, taking into consideration the experience of other States with respect to participation in an Exchange and credits and reductions provided under such provisions to residents of the other States. This amount can be updated to reflect applicable changes in Federal or State law.
(b) [Reserved]
[86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021]
§ 33.124
State reporting requirements.
(a)
Quarterly reports.
A State must submit quarterly reports to the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the State's section 1332 waiver. These quarterly reports must include, but are not limited to, reports of any ongoing operational challenges and plans for and results of associated corrective actions.
(b)
Annual reports.
A State must submit an annual report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services documenting all of the following:
(1) The progress of the section 1332 waiver.
(2) Data on compliance with section 1332(b)(1)(A) through (D) of the Affordable Care Act.
(3) A summary of the annual post-award public forum, held in accordance with § 33.120(c), including all public comments received at such forum regarding the progress of the section 1332 waiver and action taken in response to such concerns or comments.
(4) Other information consistent with the State's approved terms and conditions.
(c)
Submitting and publishing annual reports.
A State must submit a draft annual report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services no later
than 90 days after the end of each waiver year, or as specified in the waiver's terms and conditions.
(1) Within 60 days of receipt of comments from the Secretary of Health and Human Services, a State must submit to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a final annual report for the waiver year.
(2) The draft and final annual reports are to be published on a State's public Web site within 30 days of submission to and approval by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, respectively.
§ 33.128
Periodic evaluation requirements.
(a) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as applicable, shall periodically evaluate the implementation of a program under a section 1332 waiver consistent with § 33.108(f)(3)(iv) and any terms and conditions governing the section 1332 waiver.
(b) Each periodic evaluation must include a review of the annual report or reports submitted by the State in accordance with § 33.124 that relate to the period of time covered by the evaluation.
[77 FR 11715, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021]
§ 33.130
Waiver amendment.
(a)
Amendment to an approved section 1332 waiver.
A State may request an amendment to an approved section 1332 waiver from the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services. A section 1332 waiver amendment is considered a change to an approved section 1332 waiver plan that is not otherwise allowable under the terms and conditions of an approved waiver, a change that could impact any of the section 1332 statutory guardrails or a change to the program design for an approved waiver. A State is not authorized to implement any aspect of the proposed amendment without prior approval by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b) [Reserved]
[86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021]
§ 33.132
Waiver extension.
(a)
Extension.
A State may request continuation of an approved section 1332 waiver, and such request shall be deemed granted unless the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, within 90 days after the date of submission of a complete waiver extension request to the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, either denies such request in writing or informs the State in writing with respect to any additional information that is needed in order to make a final determination with respect to the request.
(b) [Reserved]
[86 FR 53502, Sept. 27, 2021]
Pt. 34

# PART 34—RESOURCES AND ECOSYSTEMS SUSTAINABILITY, TOURIST OPPORTUNITIES, AND REVIVED ECONOMIES OF THE GULF COAST STATES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
34.1
Purpose.
34.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Trust Fund
34.100
The Trust Fund.
34.101
Investments.
34.102
Interest earned.
34.103
Allocation of funds.
34.104
Expenditures.
34.105
Waiver.

# Subpart C—Eligible Activities for the Section 311(t) Gulf RESTORE Program Components
34.200
General.
34.201
Eligible activities for the Direct Component.
34.202
Eligible activities for the Comprehensive Plan Component.
34.203
Eligible activities for the Spill Impact Component.
34.204
Limitations on administrative costs and administrative expenses.
34.205
Council's audited financial statements and audits.

# Subpart D—Gulf RESTORE Program—Direct Component
34.300
General.
34.301
Responsibility for administration—Direct Component.
34.302
Allocation of funds—Direct Component.
34.303
Application procedure—Direct Component.
34.304
Grant award process—Direct Component.
34.305
Use of funds—Direct Component.
34.306
Reports—Direct Component.
34.307
Recordkeeping—Direct Component.
34.308
Audits—Direct Component.

# Subpart E—Gulf RESTORE Program—Comprehensive Plan Component
34.400
General.
34.401
Responsibility for administration—Comprehensive Plan Component.
34.402
Grant administration—Comprehensive Plan Component.
34.403
Use of funds—Comprehensive Plan Component.
34.404
Reports—Comprehensive Plan Component.
34.405
Recordkeeping—Comprehensive Plan Component.
34.406
Audits—Comprehensive Plan Component.

# Subpart F—Gulf RESTORE Program—Spill Impact Component
34.500
General.
34.501
Responsibility for administration—Spill Impact Component.
34.502
Allocation of funds—Spill Impact Component.
34.503
State Expenditure Plans—Spill Impact Component.
34.504
Grant administration—Spill Impact Component.
34.505
Use of funds—Spill Impact Component.
34.506
Reports—Spill Impact Component.
34.507
Recordkeeping—Spill Impact Component.
34.508
Audits—Spill Impact Component.

# Subpart G—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program
34.600
General.
34.601
Responsibility for administration—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
34.602
Use of funds and eligible activities—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
34.603
Limitations on activities—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
34.604
Limitations on administrative expenses—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
34.605
Reports—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
34.606
Recordkeeping—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
34.607
Audits—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.

# Subpart H—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program
34.700
General.
34.701
Responsibility for administration—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
34.702
Allocation of funds—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
34.703
Application procedure—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
34.704
Use of funds and eligible activities—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
34.705
Ineligible activities—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
34.706
Reports—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
34.707
Recordkeeping—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
34.708
Audits—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.

# Subpart I—Agreements
34.800
General.
34.801
Grant agreements.
34.802
Certifications.
34.803
Conditions.
34.804
Noncompliance.
34.805
Treasury Inspector General.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; 33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.

# Source:
80 FR 77243, Dec. 14, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 34.1
Purpose.
This part describes policies and procedures applicable to the following programs authorized under the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012 (RESTORE Act).
(a) The Gulf RESTORE Program is authorized under section 311(t) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(t)), as amended by the RESTORE Act, and includes the following components:
(1) Direct Component (subpart D of this part), administered by the Department of the Treasury.
(2) Comprehensive Plan Component (subpart E of this part), administered by the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council.
(3) Spill Impact Component (subpart F of this part), administered by the
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council.
(b) NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program (subpart G of this part) is administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and authorized by the RESTORE Act, section 1604, 33 U.S.C. 1321 note.
(c) Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program (subpart H of this part) is administered by the Department of the Treasury, and authorized by the RESTORE Act, section 1605, 33 U.S.C. 1321 note.
§ 34.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
or
RESTORE Act
means the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012.
Activity
means an activity, project, or program, including research and monitoring, eligible for funding under the Act.
Administrative costs
means those indirect costs for administration incurred by the Gulf Coast States, coastal political subdivisions, and coastal zone parishes that are allocable to activities authorized under the Act. Administrative costs do not include indirect costs that are identified specifically with, or readily assignable to, facilities as defined in 2 CFR 200.414.
Administrative expenses
means those expenses incurred for administration by the Council or NOAA, including expenses for general management functions, general ledger accounting, budgeting, human resource services, general procurement services, and general legal services. Administrative expenses do not include expenses that are identified specifically with, or readily assignable to:
(1) Facilities;
(2) Eligible projects, programs, or planning activities;
(3) Activities related to grant applications, awards, audit requirements, or post-award management, including payments and collections;
(4) The Council's development, publication, and implementation of the Comprehensive Plan and any subsequent amendments;
(5) The Council's development and publication of regulations and procedures for implementing the Spill Impact Component, and the review of State Expenditure Plans submitted under the Spill Impact Component;
(6) Preparation of reports required by the Act;
(7) Establishment and operation of advisory committees; or
(8) Collection and consideration of scientific and other research associated with restoration of the Gulf Coast ecosystem.
Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council
means the entity identified in section 311(t)(1)(F)(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the RESTORE Act.
Assignee
means a member of the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council who has been assigned primary authority and responsibility for a project or program included in the Comprehensive Plan through a grant or interagency agreement.
Best available science
means science that maximizes the quality, objectivity, and integrity of information, including statistical information; uses peer-reviewed and publicly available data; and clearly documents and communicates risks and uncertainties in the scientific basis for such projects.
Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program
means the program authorized by section 1605 of the Act.
Coastal political subdivision
means any local political jurisdiction that is immediately below the state level of government, including a county, parish, or borough, with a coastline that is contiguous with any portion of the United States Gulf of Mexico. The term includes any of the disproportionately affected counties and nondisproportionately impacted counties in Florida, as defined below.
Coastal zone parishes
means the parishes of Ascension, Assumption, Calcasieu, Cameron, Iberia, Jefferson, Lafourche, Livingston, Orleans, Plaquemines, St. Bernard, St. Charles, St. James, St. John the Baptist, St. Martin, St. Mary, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrebonne, and Vermilion in the State of Louisiana.
Comprehensive Plan Component
means the component of the Gulf RESTORE
Program authorized by section 311(t)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which funds are provided through the Council, in accordance with a plan developed by the Council, to entities to carry out the purposes of the Act.
Council
means the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council, an independent entity in the Federal Government whose members are the Governors of the Gulf Coast States; the Secretaries of Agriculture, the Army, Commerce, and the Interior; the head of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (or their designees at the level of Assistant Secretary or the equivalent).
Deepwater Horizon oil spill
means the blowout and explosion of the mobile offshore drilling unit
Deepwater Horizon
that occurred on April 20, 2010, and resulting hydrocarbon releases into the environment.
Direct Component
means the component of the Gulf RESTORE Program authorized by section 311(t)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which Gulf Coast States, coastal zone parishes, disproportionately affected counties, and nondisproportionately impacted counties are provided funds directly by Treasury through grants to carry out the purposes of the Act.
Disproportionately affected counties
means the counties of Bay, Escambia, Franklin, Gulf, Okaloosa, Santa Rosa, Wakulla, and Walton in the State of Florida.
Federal Water Pollution Control Act
means 33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
Gulf Coast Region
means:
(1) In the Gulf Coast States, the coastal zones defined under section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 that border the Gulf of Mexico;
(2) Land within the coastal zones described in paragraph (1) of this definition that is held in trust by, or the use of which is by law subject solely to the discretion of, the Federal Government or officers or agents of the Federal Government;
(3) Any adjacent land, water, and watersheds, that are within 25 miles of the coastal zone described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition; and
(4) All Federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico.
Gulf Coast State
means any of the States of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.
Gulf Coast State entity
means a party that carries out the duties of a state for the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program under § 34.702.
Infrastructure
means the public facilities or systems needed to support commerce and economic development. These installations and facilities span a wide range, including highways, airports, roads, buildings, transit systems, port facilities, railways, telecommunications, water and sewer systems, public electric and gas utilities, levees, seawalls, breakwaters, major pumping stations, and flood gates. Infrastructure encompasses new construction, upgrades and repairs to existing facilities or systems, and associated land acquisition and planning.
Multiyear Implementation Plan
means the plan submitted by entities eligible for funding directly from Treasury under the Direct Component, and described at § 34.303.
NOAA
means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program
means the program authorized by section 1604 of the Act.
Nondisproportionately impacted counties
means the counties of Charlotte, Citrus, Collier, Dixie, Hernando, Hillsborough, Jefferson, Lee, Levy, Manatee, Monroe, Pasco, Pinellas, Sarasota, and Taylor in the State of Florida.
Pass-through entity
means a non-Federal entity that provides a subaward to a subrecipient to carry out part of a program under the Act.
Planning assistance
means data gathering, studies, modeling, analysis and other tasks required to prepare plans for eligible activities under § 34.201(a) through (i), including environmental review and compliance tasks and architectural and engineering studies. Planning assistance also means one-time preparations that will allow the recipient to establish systems and processes needed to review grant applications, award grants, monitor grants after
award, and audit compliance with respect to eligible activities under § 34.201 in a Multiyear Implementation Plan or State Expenditure Plan.
Recipient
means a non-Federal entity that receives a Federal award directly from a Federal awarding agency to carry out an activity under the Act. As used in these regulations, a recipient also includes a pass-through entity. The term recipient does not include subrecipients.
Spill Impact Component
means the component of the Gulf RESTORE Program authorized by section 311(t)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which Gulf Coast States are provided funds by the Council according to a formula that the Council establishes by regulation, using criteria listed in the Act.
State Expenditure Plan
means the plan that each Gulf Coast State must submit to the Council for the expenditure of amounts disbursed under the Spill Impact Component, and described at § 34.503.
Subrecipient
means a non-Federal entity that receives a subaward from a recipient to carry out an activity under the Act.
Treasury
means the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Treasury, or his/her designee.
Trust Fund
means the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund.

# Subpart B—Trust Fund
§ 34.100
The Trust Fund.
Treasury will deposit into the Trust Fund an amount equal to 80 percent of all administrative and civil penalties paid after July 6, 2012 by responsible parties in connection with the explosion on, and sinking of, the mobile offshore drilling unit
Deepwater Horizon
pursuant to a court order, negotiated settlement, or other instrument under section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. After these administrative and civil penalties have been deposited into the Trust Fund, the Trust Fund will terminate on the date all amounts owed to the Trust Fund have been returned to the Trust Fund, and all amounts in the Trust Fund have been expended.
§ 34.101
Investments.
The Secretary of the Treasury will invest such amounts in the Trust Fund that are not, in the judgment of the Secretary, required to meet needs for current withdrawals. The Secretary may invest in interest-bearing obligations of the United States, having maturities suitable to the needs of the Trust Fund as determined by the Secretary. These obligations will bear interest at rates described in 31 U.S.C. 9702, unless the Secretary determines that such rates are unavailable for obligations with suitable maturities. In that event, the Secretary will select obligations of the United States bearing interest at rates determined by the Secretary, taking into consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities.
§ 34.102
Interest earned.
Interest earned on Trust Fund investments will be available as described in § 34.103(b).
§ 34.103
Allocation of funds.
The amounts in the Trust Fund are allocated among the programs in § 34.1.
(a) Available funds in the Trust Fund, other than interest, are allocated as follows:
(1) Thirty-five percent in equal shares for the Gulf Coast States to be used for the Direct Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program. Section 34.302 describes the allocation for each Gulf Coast State.
(2) Thirty percent for the Council to be used for the Comprehensive Plan Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program.
(3) Thirty percent for formula distribution to Gulf Coast States to be used for the Spill Impact Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program.
(4) Two and one-half percent to be used for the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
(5) Two and one-half percent in equal shares for the Gulf Coast States to be used for the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
(b) Within ten days of the close of a Federal fiscal year, available funds equal to the interest earned on the
Trust Fund investments will be allocated, as follows:
(1) Twenty-five percent to be used for the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
(2) Twenty-five percent for the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
(3) Fifty percent for the Comprehensive Plan Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program.
§ 34.104
Expenditures.
Subject to limitations in the Act and these regulations, amounts in the Trust Fund will be available for the direct and indirect expenses of eligible activities without fiscal year limitation.
§ 34.105
Waiver.
To the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, Treasury may waive or modify a requirement in the regulations in this part in a single case or class of cases if the Secretary determines, in his or her sole discretion, that the requirement is not necessary for the deposit of amounts into, or the expenditure of amounts from, the Trust Fund. Treasury will provide public notice of any waivers or modifications granted that materially change a regulatory requirement.

# Subpart C—Eligible Activities for the Section 311(t) Gulf RESTORE Program Components
§ 34.200
General.
This subpart describes policies and procedures regarding eligible activities applicable to the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, and Spill Impact Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program. Subparts D, E, F, and I of this part describe additional requirements that must be met before an activity can receive funding.
(a) Trust Fund amounts may be used to carry out an activity in whole or in part only if the following requirements are met:
(1) Costs must comply with administrative requirements and cost principles in applicable Federal laws and policies on grants.
(2) The activity must meet the eligibility requirements of the Gulf RESTORE Program as defined in § 34.201, § 34.202, or § 34.203, according to component.
(3) Activities funded through the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, and Spill Impact Component must not be included in any claim for compensation presented after July 6, 2012, to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund authorized by 26 U.S.C. 9509.
(b) A Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, and coastal zone parish may use funds available under the Direct Component or Spill Impact Component to satisfy the non-Federal cost-share of an activity that is eligible under §§ 34.201 and 34.203 and authorized by Federal law.
§ 34.201
Eligible activities for the Direct Component.
The following activities are eligible for funding under the Direct Component. Activities in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section are eligible for funding to the extent they are carried out in the Gulf Coast Region. Direct Component activities are carried out in the Gulf Coast Region when, in the reasonable judgment of the entity applying to Treasury for a grant, each severable part of the activity is primarily designed to restore or protect that geographic area. Applicants must demonstrate that the activity will be carried out in the Gulf Coast Region when they apply for a grant. Activities designed to protect or restore natural resources must be based on the best available science. All Direct Component activities must be included in and conform to the description in the Multiyear Implementation Plan required by § 34.303.
(a) Restoration and protection of the natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, and coastal wetlands of the Gulf Coast Region.
(b) Mitigation of damage to fish, wildlife, and natural resources.
(c) Implementation of a Federally-approved marine, coastal, or comprehensive conservation management plan, including fisheries monitoring.
(d) Workforce development and job creation.
(e) Improvements to or on state parks located in coastal areas affected by the
Deepwater Horizon
oil spill.
(f) Infrastructure projects benefitting the economy or ecological resources, including port infrastructure.
(g) Coastal flood protection and related infrastructure.
(h) Promotion of tourism in the Gulf Coast Region, including promotion of recreational fishing.
(i) Promotion of the consumption of seafood harvested from the Gulf Coast Region.
(j) Planning assistance. Eligible entities under § 34.302 may apply for planning assistance grants to fund preparation and amendment of the Multiyear Implementation Plan.
(k) Administrative costs.
§ 34.202
Eligible activities for the Comprehensive Plan Component.
The Council may expend funds that are available under the Comprehensive Plan Component for eligible activities under 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2) and (3), including the following:
(a) The Council may expend funds to carry out activities in the Gulf Coast Region that are included in the Comprehensive Plan, as described in 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2). An activity selected by the Council is carried out in the Gulf Coast Region when, in the reasonable judgment of the Council, each severable part of the activity is primarily designed to restore or protect that geographic area. The Council must document the basis for its judgment when it selects the activity.
(b) The Council may expend funds to develop and publish the proposed and initial Comprehensive Plans, and to implement, amend, and update the Comprehensive Plan as required by the Act or as necessary.
(c) The Council may expend funds to prepare annual reports to Congress, and other reports and audits required by the Act, these regulations, and other Federal law.
(d) The Council may expend funds to establish and operate one or more advisory committees as may be necessary to assist the Council.
(e) The Council may expend funds to collect and consider scientific and other research associated with restoration of the Gulf Coast ecosystem, including research, observation, and monitoring.
(f) Administrative expenses.
§ 34.203
Eligible activities for the Spill Impact Component.
Activities eligible for funding under the Spill Impact Component must meet the eligibility criteria in § 34.201(a) through (k), as well as the following:
(a) The activities must be included in and conform to the description in a State Expenditure Plan required in § 34.503 and approved by the Council. State entities may apply for a grant from the total amount allocated to that state under the Spill Impact Component before the Council has approved the State Expenditure Plan to fund eligible activities that are necessary to develop and submit that plan.
(b) The activities included in the State Expenditure Plan must contribute to the overall economic and ecological recovery of the Gulf Coast.
(c) Activities listed in § 34.201(a) through (g) are eligible for funding from the Spill Impact Component to the extent they are carried out in the Gulf Coast Region. For purposes of this component, an activity is carried out in the Gulf Coast Region when, in the reasonable judgment of the entity developing the State Expenditure Plan under § 34.503, each severable part of the activity is primarily designed to restore or protect that geographic area. State Expenditure Plans must include a demonstration that activities in the plan will be carried out in the Gulf Coast Region.
§ 34.204
Limitations on administrative costs and administrative expenses.
(a)(1) Of the amounts received by a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish from Treasury under the Direct Component, or from the Council under the Comprehensive Plan Component or Spill Impact Component, not more than three percent may be used for administrative costs. The three percent limit on administrative costs may be applied to the total amount of funds received by a recipient under each of the three components either on a grant-by-grant basis or on an aggregate basis. For the
latter method, amounts used for administrative costs under each of the three components may not at any time exceed three percent of the aggregate of:
(i) The amounts received under a component by a recipient, beginning with the first grant through the most recent grant, and
(ii) The amounts in the Trust Fund that are allocated to, but not yet received under such component by a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish under § 34.103, consistent with the definition of administrative costs in § 34.2.
(2) The three percent limit does not apply to the administrative costs of subrecipients. All recipient and subrecipient costs are subject to the cost principles in Federal laws and policies on grants.
(3) Treasury will conduct a retrospective analysis of this provision no later than seven years after the date it becomes effective. This review will consider whether the revision ensures that the Gulf Coast States, coastal political subdivisions, and coastal zone parishes have the necessary funding to efficiently and effectively oversee and manage projects and programs for ecological and economic restoration of the Gulf Coast Region while ensuring compliance with the statutory three percent administrative cost cap.
(b) Of the amounts received by the Council under the Comprehensive Plan Component, not more than three percent may be used for administrative expenses. The three percent limit is applied to the amounts it receives under the Comprehensive Plan Component before termination of the Trust Fund. Amounts used for administrative expenses may not at any time exceed three percent of the total of the amounts received by the Council and the amounts in the Trust Fund that are allocated to, but not yet received by, the Council under § 34.103.
[80 FR 77243, Dec. 14, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 66530, Sept. 28, 2016; 84 FR 12932, Apr. 3, 2019]
§ 34.205
Council's audited financial statements and audits.
(a) Not later than December 1, 2014, and each year thereafter, the Council must prepare and submit to the Secretary of the Treasury an audited financial statement for the preceding Federal fiscal year, covering all accounts and associated activities of the Council.
(b) Each audited financial statement under this section must reflect:
(1) The overall financial position of the accounts and activities covered by the statement, including assets and liabilities thereof.
(2) Results of operations of the Council.
(c) The financial statements must be prepared in accordance with the form and content of the financial statements prescribed by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget for executive agencies pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3515, consistent with applicable accounting and financial reporting principles, standards, and requirements.
(d) The Treasury Inspector General may conduct audits and reviews of the Council's accounts and activities as the Inspector General deems appropriate.

# Subpart D—Gulf RESTORE Program—Direct Component
§ 34.300
General.
This subpart describes the policies and procedures applicable to the Direct Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program. The funds made available under this subpart will be in the form of a grant.
§ 34.301
Responsibility for administration—Direct Component.
Treasury is responsible for awarding and administering grants and grant agreements under this subpart. Treasury will develop and apply policies and procedures consistent with the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants. Treasury also will establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its grant agreements.
§ 34.302
Allocation of funds—Direct Component.
The amounts made available in any fiscal year from the Trust Fund and allocated to this component will be available in equal shares for the Gulf Coast States for expenditure on eligible activities. The following entities
are eligible to receive Direct Component grants.
(a) The amounts available to Alabama will be provided directly to the Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council, or such administrative agent as it may designate. All administrative duties of the Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council must be performed by public officials and employees that are subject to the ethics laws of the State of Alabama.
(b) Of the amounts available to Florida, 75 percent of funding will be provided directly to the eight disproportionately affected counties. Each disproportionately affected county's share is as follows: Bay County, 15.101453044%; Escambia County, 25.334760043%; Franklin County, 8.441253238%; Gulf County, 6.743202296%; Okaloosa County, 15.226456794%; Santa Rosa County, 10.497314919%; Wakulla County, 4.943148294%; and Walton County, 13.712411372%.
(c) Of the amounts available to Florida, 25 percent of funding will be provided directly to the nondisproportionately impacted counties. Each nondisproportionately impacted county's share is as follows: Charlotte County, 5.162%; Citrus County, 4.692%; Collier County, 7.019%; Dixie County, 3.484%; Hernando County, 4.982%; Hillsborough County, 13.339%; Jefferson County, 3.834%; Lee County, 8.776%; Levy County, 3.894%; Manatee County, 6.809%; Monroe County, 8.297%; Pasco County, 7.079%; Pinellas County, 11.002%; Sarasota County, 7.248%; and Taylor County, 4.383%.
(d) Of the amounts available to Louisiana, 70 percent will be provided directly to the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority Board of Louisiana, through the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority of Louisiana.
(e) Of the amounts available to Louisiana, 30 percent will be provided directly to the coastal zone parishes. Each coastal zone parish's share is as follows: Ascension, 2.42612%; Assumption, 0.93028%; Calcasieu, 5.07063%; Cameron, 2.10096%; Iberia, 2.55018%; Jefferson, 11.95309%; Lafourche, 7.86746%; Livingston, 3.32725%; Orleans, 7.12875%; Plaquemines, 17.99998%; St. Bernard, 9.66743%; St. Charles, 1.35717%; St. James, 0.75600%; St. John the Baptist, 1.11915%; St. Martin, 2.06890%; St. Mary, 1.80223%; St. Tammany, 5.53058%; Tangipahoa, 3.40337%; Terrebonne, 9.91281%; and Vermilion, 3.02766%.
(f) No parish will receive funds until the parish chief executive has certified to the Governor of Louisiana, in a form satisfactory to the Governor or the Governor's designee, that the parish has completed a comprehensive land use plan that is consistent with, or complementary to, the most recent version of the state's Coastal Master Plan approved by the Louisiana legislature.
(g) The amounts available to Mississippi will be provided directly to the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality.
(h) The amounts available to Texas will be provided directly to the Office of the Governor or to an appointee of the Office of the Governor.
§ 34.303
Application procedure—Direct Component.
The entities identified in § 34.302 are eligible to apply for their allocation as a grant. Treasury has developed an application process for grants available under this subpart that is consistent with the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants. The application process includes the following requirements:
(a) Before an eligible entity may receive a Direct Component activity grant, the grant applicant must submit a Multiyear Implementation Plan describing each activity for which it seeks funding under the Direct Component. Applications to fund preparation and amendment of the Multiyear Implementation Plan are exempt from this requirement.
(b) For each activity, the Multiyear Implementation Plan must include a narrative description demonstrating:
(1) The need for, purpose, and objectives of the activity;
(2) How the activity is eligible for funding and meets all requirements;
(3) Location of the activity;
(4) Budget for the activity;
(5) Milestones for the activity;
(6) Projected completion dates for the activity;
(7) Criteria the applicant will use to evaluate the success of each activity in helping to restore and protect the Gulf Coast Region impacted by the
Deepwater Horizon
oil spill;
(8) The plan was made available for public review and comment for a minimum of 45 days in a manner calculated to obtain broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and non-profit organizations; and
(9) Each activity in the plan was approved after consideration of meaningful input from the public. Treasury may require a standard format and additional information in the plans. Plans can be phased and incremental and may be modified later by the applicant. If the applicant has requested or anticipates requesting funding for any part of the activity from other sources, including other components in the Act, the applicant must identify the source, state the amount of funding, and provide the current status of the request. For the State of Louisiana parishes, the applicant must submit information demonstrating compliance with § 34.302(f).
(c) Material modifications to a Multiyear Implementation Plan are subject to all applicable requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The applicant must include supporting information in each grant application that:
(1) Proposed activities meet the statutory requirements for eligibility; and
(2) Each activity designed to protect or restore natural resources is based on best available science.
(e) An applicant may satisfy some or all of the requirements in this section and § 34.802(a) through (e) if it can demonstrate in its application to Treasury that before July 6, 2012:
(1) The applicant established conditions to carry out activities that are substantively the same as the requirements in this section and § 34.802(a) through (e).
(2) The applicable activity qualified as one or more of the eligible activities in § 34.201.
§ 34.304
Grant award process—Direct Component.
Upon determining that the Multiyear Implementation Plan and the grant application meet the requirements of these regulations and the Act, Treasury will execute a grant agreement with the recipient that complies with subpart I of this part, the Act, and other Federal laws and policies on grants.
§ 34.305
Use of funds—Direct Component.
(a) An activity may be funded in whole or in part if the applicable requirements of subparts C and D of this part are met.
(b) When awarding contracts to carry out an activity under the Direct Component, a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish may give preference to individuals and companies that reside in, are headquartered in, or are principally engaged in business in the state of project execution consistent with Federal laws and policies on grants.
(c) A Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish may propose to issue subawards for eligible activities. Recipients that propose to issue subawards must demonstrate their ability to conduct subrecipient monitoring and management, as required by Federal laws and policies on grants.
§ 34.306
Reports—Direct Component.
Recipients must submit reports as prescribed by Treasury.
§ 34.307
Recordkeeping—Direct Component.
Recipients must maintain records as prescribed by Treasury, and make the records available to Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General.
§ 34.308
Audits—Direct Component.
Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General, may conduct audits and reviews of recipient's accounts and activities relating to the Act as deemed appropriate by Treasury.

# Subpart E—Gulf RESTORE Program—Comprehensive Plan Component
§ 34.400
General.
This subpart describes the policies and procedures applicable to the Comprehensive Plan Component. The Comprehensive Plan is developed by the Council in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2) and will include activities the Council intends to carry out, subject to available funding. When selecting activities to carry out in the first three years, except for certain projects and programs that were authorized prior to July 6, 2012, the Council will give highest priority to projects meeting one or more of the criteria in 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2)(D)(iii).
§ 34.401
Responsibility for administration—Comprehensive Plan Component.
(a) After selecting Comprehensive Plan projects and programs to be funded, the Council must assign primary authority and responsibility for overseeing and implementing projects and programs to a Gulf Coast State or Federal agency represented on the Council, which are called
assignees
in these regulations. In assigning responsibility, the Council must enter into a grant agreement with the Gulf Coast State or an interagency agreement with the Federal agency. Any grant agreement must be consistent with applicable Federal laws and policies on grants. The Council must specify whether any part of an assignee's responsibility may be further assigned to another entity and under what terms.
(b) When an assignee's grant or subaward to, or cooperative agreement with, a nongovernmental entity would equal or exceed ten percent of the total amount provided to the assignee for that activity, the Council must publish in the
Federal Register
and deliver to the following Congressional Committees at least 30 days prior to the assignee entering into an agreement the name of the recipient or subrecipient; a brief description of the activity, including its purpose; and the amount of the award.
(1) House of Representatives committees: Committee on Science, Space, and Technology; Committee on Natural Resources; Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; Committee on Appropriations.
(2) Senate committees: Committee on Environment and Public Works; Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation; Committee on Energy and Natural Resources; Committee on Appropriations.
(c) The Council must establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its grant agreements and interagency agreements.
§ 34.402
Grant administration—Comprehensive Plan Component.
The Council must publish policies and procedures for administration of Comprehensive Plan Component grants that are consistent with applicable Federal laws and policies on grants. These grant policies and procedures must include uniform guidelines for assignees to use when selecting subrecipients, awarding grants and subawards, and monitoring compliance. The Council must also establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its grant agreements.
§ 34.403
Use of funds—Comprehensive Plan Component.
An activity may be funded in whole or in part if the applicable requirements of subparts C and E of this part are met.
§ 34.404
Reports—Comprehensive Plan Component.
Assignees must submit reports as prescribed by the Council or Treasury. In addition, the Council must submit reports as prescribed by Treasury.
§ 34.405
Recordkeeping—Comprehensive Plan Component.
Assignees must maintain records as prescribed by the Council and Treasury, and make the records available to the Council and Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General. In addition, the Council must make its records concerning the activities of assignees available to Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General.
§ 34.406
Audits—Comprehensive Plan Component.
The Council and Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General, may conduct audits and reviews of assignee's accounts and activities relating to the Act as any of them deems appropriate.

# Subpart F—Gulf RESTORE Program—Spill Impact Component
§ 34.500
General.
This subpart describes the policies and procedures applicable to the Spill Impact Component of the Gulf RESTORE Program. The funds made available under this subpart will be in the form of grants.
§ 34.501
Responsibility for administration—Spill Impact Component.
The Council is responsible for awarding and administering grants under this subpart.
§ 34.502
Allocation of funds—Spill Impact Component.
The Council will allocate amounts to the Gulf Coast States based on the Act and regulations promulgated by the Council. The Council will make allocated funds available through grants for activities described in a State Expenditure Plan approved by the Council.
§ 34.503
State Expenditure Plans—Spill Impact Component.
Each Gulf Coast State, through its Governor or the Governor's designee, must submit a State Expenditure Plan to the Council for its approval that describes each activity for which the state seeks funding. The Council must develop requirements for these plans, including the requirements below.
(a) The State Expenditure Plan must be developed by:
(1) In Alabama, the Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council.
(2) In Florida, a consortium of local political subdivisions that includes, at a minimum, one representative of each county affected by the
Deepwater Horizon
oil spill.
(3) In Louisiana, the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority of Louisiana, as approved by the Board.
(4) In Mississippi, the Office of the Governor or an appointee of the Office of the Governor.
(5) In Texas, the Office of the Governor or an appointee of the Office of the Governor.
(b) The State Expenditure Plan must describe how it takes into consideration the Comprehensive Plan and is consistent with the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan. In addition, the State Expenditure Plan must describe the processes used:
(1) To evaluate and select activities included in the plan;
(2) To assess the capability of third party entities that will implement activities in the plan;
(3) To prevent conflicts of interest in the development and implementation of the plan;
(4) To obtain public review and comment in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section; and
(5) To verify compliance with the requirements of § 34.203 and this subpart.
(c) For each activity in the State Expenditure Plan, the plan must include a narrative description demonstrating:
(1) The need for, purpose, and objectives of the activity;
(2) How the activity is eligible for funding and meets all requirements of § 34.203 and this subpart;
(3) Location of the activity;
(4) Budget for the activity;
(5) Milestones for the activity;
(6) Projected completion dates for the activity; and
(7) Criteria the applicant will use to evaluate the success of each activity in helping to restore and protect the Gulf Coast Region. Plans can be phased or incremental and may be modified with the Council's approval. If funding has been requested from other sources, including other components of the Act, the plan must identify the source, state how much funding was requested, and provide the current status of the request.
(d) The State Expenditure Plan must demonstrate how the activities in the plan will contribute to the overall economic and ecological recovery of the Gulf Coast, and how each activity that
would restore and protect natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, coastal wetlands or the economy of the Gulf Coast is based on the best available science.
(e) The State Expenditure Plan must demonstrate that activities described in § 34.201(a) through (g) will be carried out in the Gulf Coast Region, as described in § 34.203(c).
(f) No more than 25 percent of funding under the Spill Impact Component is available to a Gulf Coast State under this subpart to pay for infrastructure, unless the Governor or the Governor's representative on the Council certifies that:
(1) The ecosystem restoration needs in the state will be addressed by the activities in the proposed plan; and
(2) Additional investment in infrastructure is required to mitigate the impacts of the
Deepwater Horizon
Oil Spill to the ecosystem or economy.
(g) Before being submitted to the Council for approval, a State Expenditure Plan must be available for public review and comment for a minimum of 45 days, in a manner calculated to obtain broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and non-profit organizations.
(h) If the Council disapproves a State Expenditure Plan, the Council must notify the impacted state in writing and consult with the state to address any identified deficiencies with the plan. If the Council fails to approve or take action within 60 days after the date on which the Council receives the plan, the state may obtain expedited judicial review within 90 days in a United States district court located in the state seeking the review.
(i) The Council must publish guidelines explaining when modifications to a State Expenditure Plan require the Council's approval. Material modifications to a State Expenditure Plan are subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.
§ 34.504
Grant administration—Spill Impact Component.
The Council must publish policies and procedures for administration of the Spill Impact Component grants that are consistent with applicable Federal laws and policies on grants. The Council must also establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its grant agreements.
§ 34.505
Use of funds—Spill Impact Component.
An activity may be funded in whole or in part if the applicable requirements of subparts C and F of this part are met.
§ 34.506
Reports—Spill Impact Component.
Recipients must submit reports as prescribed by the Council or Treasury. In addition, the Council must submit reports as prescribed by Treasury.
§ 34.507
Recordkeeping—Spill Impact Component.
Recipients must maintain records as prescribed by the Council and make the records available to the Council, and Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General. In addition, the Council must make its records concerning the activities of recipients available to Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General.
§ 34.508
Audits—Spill Impact Component.
The Council and Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General, may conduct audits and reviews of a recipient's accounts and activities relating to the Act as any of them deem appropriate.

# Subpart G—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program
§ 34.600
General.
This subpart describes policies and procedures applicable to the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program. The program's purpose is to carry out research, observation, and monitoring to support, to the maximum extent practicable, the long-term sustainability of the ecosystem, fish stocks, fish habitat, and the recreational, commercial, and charter fishing industries in the Gulf of Mexico.
§ 34.601
Responsibility for administration—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
NOAA is responsible for establishing and administering this program, in consultation with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. NOAA must develop, publish, and apply policies and procedures for the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program consistent with the Act, this subpart, and Federal laws and policies on grants. NOAA must monitor compliance with its grant agreements, cooperative agreements, contracts, and agreements funded through the Trust Fund. NOAA and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service will consult with the Regional Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council and the Gulf States Marine Fisheries Commission in carrying out the program.
§ 34.602
Use of funds and eligible activities—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
(a) Amounts made available to NOAA may be expended to carry out a program comprised of activities described in section 1604 of the Act. These activities include coordination of science and technology programs and stakeholder engagement, in accordance with section 1604(f) of the Act, as well as the following activities with respect to the Gulf of Mexico:
(1) Marine and estuarine research.
(2) Marine and estuarine ecosystem monitoring and ocean observation.
(3) Data collection and stock assessments.
(4) Pilot programs for fishery independent data and reduction of exploitation of spawning aggregations.
(5) Cooperative research.
(b) NOAA may also expend amounts made available from the Trust Fund for administrative expenses connected with the program. All funds must be expended in compliance with the Act, these regulations, and other applicable law.
§ 34.603
Limitations on activities—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
None of the Trust Fund amounts may be used for the following activities:
(a) For any existing or planned research led by NOAA, unless agreed to in writing by the grant recipient.
(b) To implement existing regulations or initiate new regulations promulgated or proposed by NOAA.
(c) To develop or approve a new limited access privilege program (as that term is used in section 303A of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act [16 U.S.C. 1853(a)]) for any fishery under the jurisdiction of the South Atlantic, Mid-Atlantic, New England, or Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Councils.
§ 34.604
Limitations on administrative expenses—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
(a) Of the amounts received by NOAA under the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program, not more than three percent may be used for administrative expenses.
(b) The three percent limit is applied to the total amount of funds received by NOAA, beginning with the first fiscal year it receives funds through the end of the fourth, or most recent fiscal year, whichever is later.
(c) NOAA may seek reimbursement of administrative expenses incurred after the first deposit into the Trust Fund, to the extent permitted by Federal law. Administrative expenses incurred prior to the first deposit into the Trust Fund are not reimbursable.
§ 34.605
Reports—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
NOAA must submit reports as prescribed by Treasury.
§ 34.606
Recordkeeping—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
Recipients and other entities receiving funds under the NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program must maintain records as prescribed by NOAA and make the records available to NOAA.
§ 34.607
Audits—NOAA RESTORE Act Science Program.
NOAA and the Treasury Inspector General may conduct audits and reviews of recipient's accounts and activities relating to the Act as either of them deems appropriate.

# Subpart H—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program
§ 34.700
General.
This subpart describes the policies and procedures applicable to the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program. The program's purpose is to establish centers of excellence to conduct research only on the Gulf Coast Region. The funds made available to the Gulf Coast States under this subpart will be in the form of a grant.
§ 34.701
Responsibility for administration—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
Treasury is responsible for awarding grants to the Gulf Coast States, which will use the amounts made available to award grants to nongovernmental entities and consortia in the Gulf Coast Region for the establishment of Centers of Excellence. Treasury will develop and apply policies and procedures consistent with this Act and Federal laws and policies on grants. Each Gulf Coast State entity issuing grants must establish and implement a program to monitor compliance with its subaward agreements.
§ 34.702
Allocation of funds—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
An equal share of funds will be available to each Gulf Coast State to carry out eligible activities. The duties of a Gulf Coast State will be carried out by the following entities:
(a) In Alabama, the Alabama Gulf Coast Recovery Council, or such administrative agent as it may designate.
(b) In Florida, the Florida Institute of Oceanography.
(c) In Louisiana, the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority Board of Louisiana, through the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority of Louisiana.
(d) In Mississippi, the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality.
(e) In Texas, the Office of the Governor or an appointee of the Office of the Governor.
§ 34.703
Application procedure—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
Treasury has developed an application process for grants available to the Gulf Coast States under this subpart that is consistent with the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants. The process includes the following requirements:
(a) Each Gulf Coast State must describe the competitive process that the state will use to select one or more Centers of Excellence. The competitive process must allow nongovernmental entities and consortia in the Gulf Coast Region, including public and private institutions of higher education, to compete. The process must give priority to entities and consortia that demonstrate the ability to establish the broadest cross-section of participants in the grant with interest and expertise in science, technology, and monitoring in the discipline(s) on which the proposal is focused. The process must also guard against conflicts of interest.
(b) Each Gulf Coast State must describe in its application the state rules and policies applying to subawards it will issue under this subpart. At a minimum, these state rules and policies must include the competitive selection process and measures to guard against conflicts of interest.
(c) Each Gulf Coast State must demonstrate in its application that the state rules and policies applying to subawards it will issue under this subpart were published and available for public review and comment for a minimum of 45 days, and that they were approved after consideration of meaningful input from the public, including broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and non-profit organizations. These requirements do not apply to state statutes and regulations, or to policies that were in effect prior to August 15, 2014.
(d) Each application must state the amount of funding requested and the purposes for which the funds will be used.
§ 34.704
Use of funds and eligible activities—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
(a) A Gulf Coast State receiving funds under this subpart must establish a grant program that complies with the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants.
(b) Gulf Coast States may use funds available under this subpart to award competitive subawards for the establishment of Centers of Excellence that focus on science, technology, and monitoring in at least one of the following disciplines:
(1) Coastal and deltaic sustainability, restoration, and protection, including solutions and technology that allow citizens to live in a safe and sustainable manner in a coastal delta in the Gulf Coast Region.
(2) Coastal fisheries and wildlife ecosystem research and monitoring in the Gulf Coast Region.
(3) Offshore energy development, including research and technology to improve the sustainable and safe development of energy resources in the Gulf of Mexico.
(4) Sustainable and resilient growth and economic and commercial development in the Gulf Coast Region.
(5) Comprehensive observation, monitoring, and mapping of the Gulf of Mexico.
§ 34.705
Ineligible activities—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
Any activity that is not authorized under the provisions of § 34.704 is ineligible for funding under this subpart.
§ 34.706
Reports—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
Each Gulf Coast State entity must submit the following reports:
(a) An annual report to the Council in a form prescribed by the Council that includes information on subrecipients, subaward amounts, disciplines addressed, and any other information required by the Council. When the subrecipient is a consortium, the annual report must also identify the consortium members. This information will be included in the Council's annual report to Congress.
(b) Reports as prescribed by Treasury.
§ 34.707
Recordkeeping—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
Recipients must maintain records as prescribed by Treasury and make the records available to Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General.
§ 34.708
Audits—Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program.
Treasury, including the Treasury Inspector General, may conduct audits and reviews of each recipient's accounts and activities relating to the Act as deemed appropriate by Treasury.

# Subpart I—Agreements
§ 34.800
General.
This subpart describes procedures applicable to grant agreements used by Treasury, the Council (including Federal agencies carrying out responsibilities for the Council), NOAA, Gulf Coast States, coastal political subdivisions, and coastal zone parishes in making awards under subparts D, E, F, G, and H of this part. It also describes Treasury's authority to inspect records and the Treasury Inspector General's authority under the Act.
§ 34.801
Grant agreements.
The grant agreements used must conform to the Act and Federal laws and policies on grants, including audit requirements.
§ 34.802
Certifications.
At a minimum, grant applications and agreements for the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, and Spill Impact Component must contain the following certifications. The certification must be signed by an authorized senior official of the entity receiving grant funds who can legally bind the organization or entity, and who has oversight for the administration and use of the funds in question. The certification in paragraph (c) of this section does not apply to planning assistance funds for the preparation and amendment of the Multiyear Implementation Plan.
(a) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement has been designed to plan for or undertake activities to restore and protect the natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, coastal wetlands, or economy of the Gulf Coast Region.
(b) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement is designed to carry out one or more of the eligible activities for this component.
(c) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement was part of a plan made available for public review and comment in a manner calculated to obtain broad-based participation from individuals, businesses, Indian tribes, and nonprofit organizations, and that the activity was selected after consideration of meaningful input from the public, as described in the grant application.
(d) I certify that each activity funded under this Agreement that protects or restores natural resources is based on the best available science, as that term is defined in 31 CFR part 34.
(e) I certify that this recipient has procedures in place for procuring property and services under this award that are consistent with the procurement standards applying to Federal grants. This recipient agrees that it will not request funds under this award for any contract unless this certification remains true and accurate.
(f) I certify that a conflict of interest policy is in effect and covering each activity funded under this Agreement.
(g) I make each of these certifications based on my personal knowledge and belief after reasonable and diligent inquiry, and I affirm that this recipient maintains written documentation sufficient to support each certification made above, and that this recipient's compliance with each of these certifications is a condition of this recipient's initial and continuing receipt and use of the funds provided under this Agreement.
§ 34.803
Conditions.
At a minimum, each grant agreement under subparts D, E, F, G, and H of this part must contain the following conditions:
(a) The recipient must immediately report any indication of fraud, waste, abuse, or potentially criminal activity pertaining to grant funds to Treasury and the Treasury Inspector General.
(b) The recipient must maintain detailed records sufficient to account for the receipt, obligation, and expenditure of grant funds. The recipient must track program income.
(c) Prior to disbursing funds to a subrecipient, the recipient must execute a legally binding written agreement with the entity receiving the subaward. The written agreement will extend all the applicable program requirements to the subrecipient.
(d) The recipient must use the funds only for the purposes identified in the agreement.
(e) The recipient must report at the conclusion of the grant period, or other period specified by the Federal agency administering the grant, on the use of funds pursuant to the agreement.
(f) Trust Fund amounts may only be used to acquire land or interests in land by purchase, exchange, or donation from a willing seller.
(g) None of the Trust Fund amounts may be used to acquire land in fee title by the Federal Government unless the land is acquired by exchange or donation or the acquisition is necessary for the restoration and protection of the natural resources, ecosystems, fisheries, marine and wildlife habitats, beaches, and coastal wetlands of the Gulf Coast Region and has the concurrence of the Governor of the state in which the acquisition will take place.
§ 34.804
Noncompliance.
(a) If Treasury determines that a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish has expended funds received under the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, or Spill Impact Component on an ineligible activity, Treasury will make no additional funds available to that recipient from any part of the Trust Fund until the recipient has deposited in the Trust Fund an amount equal to the amount expended for an ineligible activity, or Treasury has authorized the recipient to expend an equal amount from the recipient's own
funds for an activity that meets the requirements of the Act.
(b) If Treasury determines that a Gulf Coast State, coastal political subdivision, or coastal zone parish has materially violated a grant agreement under the Direct Component, Comprehensive Plan Component, or Spill Impact Component, Treasury will make no additional funds available to that recipient from any part of the Trust Fund until the recipient corrects the violation.
(c) As a condition of receiving funds, recipients and subrecipients shall make available their records and personnel to Treasury in order to carry out the purposes of this section.
§ 34.805
Treasury Inspector General.
In addition to other authorities available under the Act, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury is authorized to conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of activities funded through grants under the Act.
Pt. 35

# PART 35—PANDEMIC RELIEF PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds
Sec.
35.1
Purpose.
35.2
Applicability.
35.3
Definitions.
35.4
Reservation of authority, reporting.
35.5
Use of funds.
35.6
Eligible uses.
35.7
Pensions.
35.8
Tax.
35.9
Compliance with applicable laws.
35.10
Recoupment.
35.11
Payments to States.
35.12
Distributions to nonentitlement units of local government and units of general local government.

# Subpart B—Compensation and Capital Distributions
35.20
Purpose, applicability, and general provisions.
35.21
Definitions.
35.22
Restrictions on compensation.
35.23
Restrictions on dividends, share buybacks, and other capital distributions.
35.24
Annual certification.
35.25
Exemptive relief.

# Subpart C—State Small Business Credit Initiative Small Business Owners Demographics Data Collection
35.26
Authority, scope, and purpose.
35.27
Definitions.
35.28
Annual report requirements.
35.29
Format.
Appendix A to Part 35—Emergency Capital Investment Program Model Excessive or Luxury Expenditures Policy

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 802(f); 42 U.S.C. 803(f); 31 U.S.C. 321; 12 U.S.C. 5701-5710; Division N, Title V, Subtitle B, Pub. L. 116-260, 134 Stat. 1182 (12 U.S.C. 4703a); Section 104A, Pub. L. 103-325, 108 Stat. 2160, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
); Pub. L. 117-2, 135 Stat. 4 (42 U.S.C. 802
et seq.
).

# Source:
86 FR 13455, Mar. 9, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 802(f); 42 U.S.C. 803(f); section 102(c) of Division LL of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub. L. 117-328).

# Source:
88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.1
Purpose.
This part implements sections 602 and 603 of the Social Security Act, as added by section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act (Subtitle M of Title IX of Pub. L. 117-2) and amended by section 102 of Division LL of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023 (Pub. L. 117-328).
§ 35.2
Applicability.
This part applies to states, territories, Tribal governments, metropolitan cities, nonentitlement units of local government, counties, and units of general local government that accept a payment or transfer of funds made under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act.
§ 35.3
Definitions.
Baseline
means tax revenue of the recipient for its fiscal year ending in 2019, adjusted for inflation in each reporting year using the Bureau of Economic Analysis's Implicit Price Deflator for the gross domestic product of the United States.
Capital expenditures
has the same meaning given in 2 CFR 200.1.
County
means a county, parish, or other equivalent county division (as defined by the Census Bureau).
Covered benefits
include, but are not limited to, the costs of all types of leave (vacation, family-related, sick, military, bereavement, sabbatical, jury duty), employee insurance (health, life, dental, vision), retirement (pensions, 401(k)), unemployment benefit plans (Federal and State), workers' compensation insurance, and Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes (which includes Social Security and Medicare taxes).
Covered change
means a change in law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase. A change in law includes any final legislative or regulatory action, a new or changed administrative interpretation, and the phase-in or taking effect of any statute or rule if the phase-in or taking effect was not prescribed prior to the start of the covered period.
Covered period
means, with respect to a state or territory, the period that:
(1) Begins on March 3, 2021; and
(2) Ends on the last day of the fiscal year of such State or territory in which all funds received by the State or territory from a payment made under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act have been expended or returned to, or recovered by, the Secretary.
COVID-19
means the Coronavirus Disease 2019.
COVID-19 public health emergency
means the period beginning on January 27, 2020, and lasting until the termination of the national emergency concerning the COVID-19 outbreak declared pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).
Delivery sequence
means the order in which disaster relief agencies and organizations provide assistance pursuant to 44 CFR 206.191.
Deposit
means an extraordinary payment of an accrued, unfunded liability. The term deposit does not refer to routine contributions made by an employer to pension funds as part of the employer's obligations related to payroll, such as either a pension contribution consisting of a normal cost component related to current employees or a component addressing the amortization of unfunded liabilities calculated by reference to the employer's payroll costs.
Disaster loss
means a loss suffered as a result of a major disaster or emergency declared under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170).
Eligible employer
means an employer of an eligible worker who performs essential work.
Eligible workers
means workers needed to maintain continuity of operations of essential critical infrastructure sectors, including health care; emergency response; sanitation, disinfection, and cleaning work; maintenance work; grocery stores, restaurants, food production, and food delivery; pharmacy; biomedical research; behavioral health work; medical testing and diagnostics; home- and community-based health care or assistance with activities of daily living; family or childcare; social services work; public health work; vital services to Tribes; any work performed by an employee of a State, local, or Tribal government; educational work, school nutrition work, and other work required to operate a school facility; laundry work; elections work; solid waste or hazardous materials management, response, and cleanup work; work requiring physical interaction with patients; dental care work; transportation and warehousing; work at hotel and commercial lodging facilities that are used for COVID-19 mitigation and containment; work in a mortuary; and work in critical clinical research, development, and testing necessary for COVID-19 response.
(1) With respect to a recipient that is a metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or county, workers in any additional non-public sectors as each chief executive officer of such recipient may designate as critical to protect the health and well-
being of the residents of their metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or county; or
(2) With respect to a State, territory, or Tribal government, workers in any additional non-public sectors as each Governor of a State or territory, or each Tribal government, may designate as critical to protect the health and well-being of the residents of their State, territory, or Tribal government.
Emergency relief
means assistance that is needed to save lives and to protect property and public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of catastrophe.
Essential work
means work that:
(1) Is not performed while teleworking from a residence; and
(2) Involves:
(i) Regular in-person interactions with patients, the public, or coworkers of the individual that is performing the work; or
(ii) Regular physical handling of items that were handled by, or are to be handled by patients, the public, or coworkers of the individual that is performing the work.
Funds
means, with respect to a recipient, amounts provided to the recipient pursuant to a payment made under section 602(b) or 603(b) of the Social Security Act or transferred to the recipient pursuant to section 603(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.
General revenue
means money that is received from tax revenue, current charges, and miscellaneous general revenue, excluding refunds and other correcting transactions and proceeds from issuance of debt or the sale of investments, agency or private trust transactions, and intergovernmental transfers from the Federal Government, including transfers made pursuant to section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act. General revenue also includes revenue from liquor stores that are owned and operated by state and local governments. General revenue does not include revenues from utilities, except recipients may choose to include revenue from utilities that are part of their own government as general revenue provided the recipient does so consistently over the remainder of the period of performance. Revenue from Tribal business enterprises must be included in general revenue.
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
means the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Public Law 117-58, 135 Stat. 429 (Nov. 15, 2021).
Intergovernmental transfers
means money received from other governments, including grants and shared taxes.
Low-income household
means a household with:
(1) Income at or below 185 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines for the size of its household based on the poverty guidelines published most recently by the Department of Health and Human Services; or
(2) Income at or below 40 percent of the Area Median Income for its county and size of household based on data published most recently by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Micro-business
means a small business that has five or fewer employees, one or more of whom owns the small business.
Moderate-income household
means a household with:
(1) Income at or below 300 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines for the size of its household based on poverty guidelines published most recently by the Department of Health and Human Services; or
(2) Income at or below 65 percent of the Area Median Income for its county and size of household based on data published most recently by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Metropolitan city
has the meaning given that term in section 102(a)(4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(4)) and includes cities that relinquish or defer their status as a metropolitan city for purposes of receiving allocations under section 106 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5306) for fiscal year 2021.
Natural disaster
means any hurricane, tornado, storm, flood, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, snowstorm, drought, or fire, in each case attributable to natural causes, that causes or may cause substantial damage, injury,
or imminent threat to civilian property or persons. “Natural disaster” may also include another type of natural catastrophe, attributable to natural causes, that causes or may cause substantial damage, injury, or imminent threat to civilian property or persons.
Net reduction in total spending
is measured as the State or territory's total spending for a given reporting year excluding its spending of funds, subtracted from its total spending for its fiscal year ending in 2019, adjusted for inflation using the Bureau of Economic Analysis's Implicit Price Deflator for the gross domestic product of the United States for that reporting year.
Nonentitlement unit of local government
means a “city,” as that term is defined in section 102(a)(5) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(5)), that is not a metropolitan city.
Nonprofit
means a nonprofit organization that is exempt from Federal income taxation and that is described in section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Obligation
means an order placed for property and services and entering into contracts, subawards, and similar transactions that require payment. An obligation also means a requirement under federal law or regulation or provision of the award terms and conditions to which a recipient becomes subject as a result of receiving or expending funds.
Operating expenses
means costs necessary to operate and manage a public transportation system, including driver salaries, fuel, and items having a useful life of less than one year. Operating expenses do not include preventive maintenance activities.
Pension fund
means a defined benefit plan and does not include a defined contribution plan.
Period of performance
means the time period described in § 35.5 during which a recipient may obligate and expend funds in accordance with sections 602(c)(1), 602(c)(5)(E), 603(c)(1), and 603(c)(6)(D) of the Social Security Act and this subpart.
Premium pay
means an amount of up to $13 per hour that is paid to an eligible worker, in addition to wages or remuneration the eligible worker otherwise receives, for all work performed by the eligible worker during the COVID-19 public health emergency. Such amount may not exceed $25,000 in total over the period of performance with respect to any single eligible worker. Premium pay may be awarded to non-hourly and part-time eligible workers performing essential work. Premium pay will be considered to be in addition to wages or remuneration the eligible worker otherwise receives if, as measured on an hourly rate, the premium pay is:
(1) With regard to work that the eligible worker previously performed, pay and remuneration equal to the sum of all wages and remuneration previously received plus up to $13 per hour with no reduction, substitution, offset, or other diminishment of the eligible worker's previous, current, or prospective wages or remuneration; or
(2) With regard to work that the eligible worker continues to perform, pay of up to $13 per hour that is in addition to the eligible worker's regular rate of wages or remuneration, with no reduction, substitution, offset, or other diminishment of the worker's current and prospective wages or remuneration.
Qualified census tract
has the same meaning given in 26 U.S.C. 42(d)(5)(B)(ii)(I).
Recipient
means a State, territory, Tribal government, metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, county, or unit of general local government that receives a payment made under section 602(b) or 603(b) of the Social Security Act or transfer pursuant to section 603(c)(4) of the Social Security Act.
Reporting year
means a single year or partial year within the covered period, aligned to the current fiscal year of the State or territory during the covered period.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
State
means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
Small business
means a business concern or other organization that:
(1) Has no more than 500 employees or, if applicable, the size standard in
number of employees established by the Administrator of the Small Business Administration for the industry in which the business concern or organization operates, and
(2) Is a small business concern as defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
Surface Transportation project
means any of the following:
(1) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 117;
(2) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 119;
(3) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 124, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(4) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 133;
(5) An activity to carry out 23 U.S.C. 134;
(6) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 148;
(7) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 149;
(8) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 151(f), as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(9) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 165;
(10) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 167;
(11) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 173, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(12) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 175, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(13) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 176, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(14) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 202;
(15) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 203;
(16) A project eligible under 23 U.S.C. 204;
(17) A project eligible under the program for national infrastructure investments commonly known as the “Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity” grant program;
(18) A project eligible for credit assistance under the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program under 23 U.S.C. chapter 6;
(19) A project that furthers the completion of a designated route of the Appalachian Development Highway System under 40 U.S.C. 14501;
(20) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5307;
(21) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5309;
(22) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5311;
(23) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5337;
(24) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 5339;
(25) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 6703, as added by the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
(26) A project eligible under the bridge replacement, rehabilitation, preservation, protection, and construction program under paragraph (1) under the heading 'HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM' under the heading 'FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION' under the heading 'DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION' under title VIII of division J of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act; and
(27) A project eligible under 49 U.S.C. 6701 for the purpose set forth in § 35.6(h)(1)(i)(C).
Tax revenue
means revenue received from a compulsory contribution that is exacted by a government for public purposes excluding refunds and corrections and, for purposes of § 35.8, intergovernmental transfers. Tax revenue does not include payments for a special privilege granted or service rendered, employee or employer assessments and contributions to finance retirement and social insurance trust systems, or special assessments to pay for capital improvements.
Territory
means the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or American Samoa.
Title I eligible schools
means schools eligible to receive services under section 1113 of Title I, Part A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 6313), including schools served under section 1113(b)(1)(C) of that Act.
Title I project
means an activity eligible under section 105(a) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)).
Tribal enterprise
means a business concern:
(1) That is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments, or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments; or
(2) That is owned in part by one or more Tribal governments, or by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Tribal governments, if all other owners are either United States citizens or small business concerns, as these terms are used and consistent with the definitions in 15 U.S.C. 657a(b)(2)(D).
Tribal government
means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list published on January 29, 2021, pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131).
Unemployment rate
means the U-3 unemployment rate provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as part of the Local Area Unemployment Statistics program, measured as total unemployment as a percentage of the civilian labor force.
Unemployment trust fund
means an unemployment trust fund established under section 904 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1104).
Unit of general local government
has the meaning given to that term in section 102(a)(1) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(a)(1)).
[88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 80589, Nov. 20, 2023]
§ 35.4
Reservation of authority, reporting.
(a)
Reservation of authority.
Nothing in this part shall limit the authority of the Secretary to take action to enforce conditions or violations of law, including actions necessary to prevent evasions of this subpart.
(b)
Extensions or accelerations of timing.
The Secretary may extend or accelerate any deadline or compliance date of this part, including reporting requirements that implement this subpart, if the Secretary determines that such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the Secretary will consider the period of time that would be extended or accelerated and how the modified timeline would facilitate compliance with this subpart.
(c)
Reporting and requests for other information.
During the period of performance, recipients shall provide to the Secretary or her delegate, as applicable, periodic reports providing detailed accounting of the uses of funds, modifications to a State or Territory's tax revenue sources, and such other information as the Secretary or her delegate, as applicable, may require for the administration of this section. In addition to regular reporting requirements, the Secretary may request other additional information as may be necessary or appropriate, including as may be necessary to prevent evasions of the requirements of this subpart. False statements or claims made to the Secretary may result in criminal, civil, or administrative sanctions, including fines, imprisonment, civil damages and penalties, debarment from participating in Federal awards or contracts, and/or any other remedy available by law.
§ 35.5
Use of funds.
(a)
In general.
A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (b) through (f) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning March 3, 2021, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2) and 603(c)(2) of the Social Security Act, as applicable. A recipient may only use funds for the purposes enumerated in § 35.6 (g) through (h) to cover costs incurred during the period beginning December 29, 2022, and ending December 31, 2024, subject to the restrictions set forth in sections 602(c)(2), 602(c)(5)(C), 603(c)(2), and 603(c)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act, as applicable.
(b)
Costs incurred.
A cost shall be considered to have been incurred for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section if the recipient has incurred an obligation with respect to such cost by December 31, 2024.
(c)
Return of funds.
A recipient must return any funds that have not been
obligated by December 31, 2024, pursuant to orders placed for property and services or entry into contracts, subawards, and similar transactions that require payment other than funds in the amount reported to Treasury by April 30, 2024, as the estimate of funds that the recipient will expend to comply with a requirement under federal law or regulation or provision of the award terms and conditions to which a recipient becomes subject as a result of receiving or expending funds. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6(b) through (g) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by December 31, 2026. A recipient must return funds obligated for a use identified in § 35.6(h) by December 31, 2024, but not expended by September 30, 2026. A recipient must return funds in the amount reported to Treasury by April 30, 2024, as referenced above, but not expended by December 31, 2026, other than administrative expenses necessary to close out the award.
[88 FR 65026, Sept. 20, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 80589, Nov. 20, 2023]
§ 35.6
Eligible uses.
(a)
In general.
Subject to §§ 35.7 and 35.8, a recipient may use funds for one or more of the purposes described in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section.
(b)
Responding to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts.
A recipient may use funds to respond to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts if the use meets the criteria provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or is enumerated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section; provided that, in the case of a use of funds for a capital expenditure under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section, the use of funds must also meet the criteria provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Treasury may also articulate additional eligible programs, services, or capital expenditures from time to time that satisfy the eligibility criteria of this paragraph (b), which shall be eligible under this paragraph (b).
(1)
Identifying eligible responses to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts.
(i) A program, service, or capital expenditure is eligible under this paragraph (b)(1) if a recipient identifies a harm or impact to a beneficiary or class of beneficiaries caused or exacerbated by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts and the program, service, or capital expenditure responds to such harm.
(ii) A program, service, or capital expenditure responds to a harm or impact experienced by an identified beneficiary or class of beneficiaries if it is reasonably designed to benefit the beneficiary or class of beneficiaries that experienced the harm or impact and is related and reasonably proportional to the extent and type of harm or impact experienced.
(2)
Identified harms: presumptions of impacted and disproportionately impacted beneficiaries.
A recipient may rely on the following presumptions to identify beneficiaries presumptively impacted or disproportionately impacted by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts for the purpose of providing a response under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section:
(i) Households or populations that experienced unemployment; experienced increased food or housing insecurity; qualify for the Children's Health Insurance Program (42 U.S.C. 1397aa
et seq.
), Childcare Subsidies through the Child Care and Development Fund Program (42 U.S.C. 9857
et seq.
and 42 U.S.C. 618), or Medicaid (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
); if funds are to be used for affordable housing programs, qualify for the National Housing Trust Fund (12 U.S.C. 4568) or the Home Investment Partnerships Program (42 U.S.C. 12721
et seq.
); if funds are to be used to address impacts of lost instructional time for students in kindergarten through twelfth grade, any student who did not have access to in-person instruction for a significant period of time; and low- and moderate-income households and populations are presumed to be impacted by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts;
(ii) The general public is presumed to be impacted by the public health emergency for the purposes of providing the uses set forth in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) and (b)(3)(i)(C) of this section; and
(iii) The following households, communities, small businesses, and nonprofit organizations are presumed to be disproportionately impacted by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts:
(A) Households and populations residing in a qualified census tract; households and populations receiving services provided by Tribal governments; households and populations residing in the territories; households and populations receiving services provided by territorial governments; low-income households and populations; households that qualify for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
), Free and Reduced Price School Lunch and/or Breakfast programs (42 U.S.C. 1751
et seq.
and 42 U.S.C. 1773), Medicare Part D Low-income Subsidies (42 U.S.C. 1395w-114), Supplemental Security Income (42 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.
), Head Start (42 U.S.C. 9831
et seq.
), Early Head Start (42 U.S.C. 9831
et seq.
), the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (42 U.S.C. 1786), Section 8 Vouchers (42 U.S.C. 1437f), the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (42 U.S.C. 8621
et seq.
), Pell Grants (20 U.S.C. 1070a), and, if SLFRF funds are to be used for services to address educational disparities, Title I eligible schools;
(B) Small businesses operating in a qualified census tract, operated by Tribal governments or on Tribal lands, or operating in the territories; and
(C) Nonprofit organizations operating in a qualified census tract, operated by Tribal governments or on Tribal lands, or operating in the territories.
(3)
Enumerated eligible uses: responses presumed reasonably proportional.
A recipient may use funds to respond to the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts on a beneficiary or class of beneficiaries for one or more of the following purposes unless such use is grossly disproportionate to the harm caused or exacerbated by the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts:
(i) Responding to the public health impacts of the public health emergency for purposes including:
(A) COVID-19 mitigation and prevention in a manner that is consistent with recommendations and guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, including vaccination programs and incentives; testing programs; contact tracing; isolation and quarantine; mitigation and prevention practices in congregate settings; acquisition and distribution of medical equipment for prevention and treatment of COVID-19, including personal protective equipment; COVID-19 prevention and treatment expenses for public hospitals or health care facilities, including temporary medical facilities; establishing or enhancing public health data systems; installation and improvement of ventilation systems in congregate settings, health facilities, or other public facilities; and assistance to small businesses, nonprofits, or impacted industries to implement mitigation measures;
(B) Medical expenses related to testing and treating COVID-19 that are provided in a manner consistent with recommendations and guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, including emergency medical response expenses, treatment of long-term symptoms or effects of COVID-19, and costs to medical providers or to individuals for testing or treating COVID-19;
(C) Behavioral health care, including prevention, treatment, emergency or first-responder programs, harm reduction, supports for long-term recovery, and behavioral health facilities and equipment; and
(D) Preventing and responding to increased violence resulting from the public health emergency, including community violence intervention programs, or responding to increased gun violence resulting from the public health emergency, including payroll and covered benefits associated with community policing strategies; enforcement efforts to reduce gun violence; and investing in technology and equipment;
(ii) Responding to the negative economic impacts of the public health emergency for purposes including:
(A) Assistance to households and individuals, including:
(1)
Assistance for food; emergency housing needs; burials, home repairs, or weatherization; internet access or digital literacy; cash assistance; and assistance accessing public benefits;
(2)
Paid sick, medical, or family leave programs, or assistance to expand access to health insurance;
(3)
Childcare, early learning services, home visiting, or assistance for child welfare-involved families or foster youth;
(4)
Programs to address the impacts of lost instructional time for students in kindergarten through twelfth grade;
(5)
Development, repair, and operation of affordable housing and services or programs to increase long-term housing security;
(6)
Financial services that facilitate the delivery of Federal, State, or local benefits for unbanked and underbanked individuals;
(7)
Benefits for the surviving family members of individuals who have died from COVID-19, including cash assistance to surviving spouses or dependents of individuals who died of COVID-19;
(8)
Assistance for individuals who want and are available for work, including those who are unemployed, have looked for work sometime in the past 12 months, who are employed part time but who want and are available for full-time work, or who are employed but seeking a position with greater opportunities for economic advancement;
(9)
Facilities and equipment related to the provision of services to households provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A)(
1
) through(
8
) of this section;
(10)
The following expenses related to Unemployment Trust Funds:
(i)
Contributions to a recipient Unemployment Trust Fund and repayment of principal amounts due on advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1321) up to an amount equal to (a) the difference between the balance in the recipient's Unemployment Trust Fund as of January 27, 2020, and the balance of such account as of May 17, 2021, plus (b) the principal amount outstanding as of May 17, 2021, on any advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act between January 27, 2020, and May 17, 2021; provided that if a recipient repays principal on Title XII advances or makes a contribution to an Unemployment Trust Fund after April 1, 2022, such recipient shall not reduce average weekly benefit amounts or maximum benefit entitlements prior to December 31, 2024; and
(ii)
Any interest due on such advances received under Title XII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1321); and
(11)
A program, service, capital expenditure, or other assistance that is provided to a disproportionately impacted household, population, or community, including:
(i)
Services to address health disparities of the disproportionately impacted household, population, or community;
(ii)
Housing vouchers and relocation assistance;
(iii)
Investments in communities to promote improved health outcomes and public safety such as parks, recreation facilities, and programs that increase access to healthy foods;
(iv)
Capital expenditures and other services to address vacant or abandoned properties;
(v)
Services to address educational disparities; and
(vi)
Facilities and equipment related to the provision of these services to the disproportionately impacted household, population, or community.
(B) Assistance to small businesses, including:
(
1
) Programs, services, or capital expenditures that respond to the negative economic impacts of the COVID-19 public health emergency, including loans or grants to mitigate financial hardship such as declines in revenues or impacts of periods of business closure, or providing technical assistance; and
(
2
) A program, service, capital expenditure, or other assistance that responds to disproportionately impacted small businesses, including rehabilitation of commercial properties; storefront and façade improvements; technical assistance, business incubators, and grants for start-ups or expansion costs for small businesses; and programs or services to support micro-businesses;
(C) Assistance to nonprofit organizations including programs, services, or capital expenditures, including loans or grants to mitigate financial hardship such as declines in revenues or increased costs, or technical assistance;
(D) Assistance to tourism, travel, hospitality, and other impacted industries for programs, services, or capital expenditures, including support for payroll costs and covered benefits for employees, compensating returning employees, support for operations and maintenance of existing equipment and facilities, and technical assistance; and
(E) Expenses to support public sector capacity and workforce, including:
(1)
Payroll and covered benefit expenses for public safety, public health, health care, human services, and similar employees to the extent that the employee's time is spent mitigating or responding to the COVID-19 public health emergency;
(2)
Payroll, covered benefit, and other costs associated with programs or services to support the public sector workforce and with the recipient:
(i)
Hiring or rehiring staff to fill budgeted full-time equivalent positions that existed on January 27, 2020, but that were unfilled or eliminated as of March 3, 2021; or
(ii)
Increasing the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees by up to the difference between the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees on January 27, 2020, multiplied by 1.075, and the number of its budgeted full-time equivalent employees on March 3, 2021, provided that funds shall only be used for additional budgeted full-time equivalent employees above the recipient's number of budgeted full-time equivalent employees as of March 3, 2021;
(3)
Costs to improve the design and execution of programs responding to the COVID-19 pandemic and to administer or improve the efficacy of programs addressing the public health emergency or its negative economic impacts; and
(4)
Costs associated with addressing administrative needs of recipient governments that were caused or exacerbated by the pandemic.
(4)
Capital expenditures.
A recipient, other than a Tribal government, must prepare a written justification for certain capital expenditures according to Table 1 of paragraph (b) of this section. Such written justification must include the following elements:
(i) Describe the harm or need to be addressed;
(ii) Explain why a capital expenditure is appropriate; and
(iii) Compare the proposed capital expenditure to at least two alternative capital expenditures and demonstrate why the proposed capital expenditure is superior.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)
If a project has total expected
capital expenditures of
and the use is enumerated in (b)(3), then
and the use is not enumerated in (b)(3), then
Less than $1 million
No Written Justification required
No Written Justification required.
Greater than or equal to $1 million, but less than $10 million
Written Justification required but recipients are not required to submit as part of regular reporting to Treasury
Written Justification required and recipients must submit as part of regular reporting to Treasury.
$10 million or more
Written Justification required and recipients must submit as part of regular reporting to Treasury
(c)
Providing premium pay to eligible workers.
A recipient may use funds to provide premium pay to eligible workers of the recipient who perform essential work or to provide grants to eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work, provided that any premium pay or grants provided under this paragraph (c) must respond to eligible workers performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health emergency. A recipient uses premium pay or grants provided under this paragraph (c) to respond to eligible workers performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health emergency if:
(1) The eligible worker's total wages and remuneration, including the premium pay, is less than or equal to 150
percent of the greater of such eligible worker's residing State's or county's average annual wage for all occupations as defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics;
(2) The eligible worker is not exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act overtime provisions (29 U.S.C. 207); or
(3) The recipient has submitted to the Secretary a written justification that explains how providing premium pay to the eligible worker is responsive to the eligible worker performing essential work during the COVID-19 public health emergency (such as a description of the eligible workers' duties, health, or financial risks faced due to COVID-19, and why the recipient determined that the premium pay was responsive despite the worker's higher income).
(d)
Providing government services.
A recipient may use funds for the provision of government services up to an amount equal to the greater of:
(1) $10,000,000; or
(2) the amount of the reduction in the recipient's general revenue due to the COVID-19 public health emergency, which equals the sum of the reduction in revenue, calculated as of each date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and according to the formula in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section:
(i) A recipient must make a one-time election to calculate the reduction in its general revenue using information as of either:
(A) December 31, 2020, December 31, 2021, December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2023; or
(B) The last day of each of the recipient's fiscal years ending in 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023.
(ii) A reduction in a recipient's general revenue for each date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) equals:
Max {[Base Year Revenue*
(1 +
Growth Adjustment
)^(
n
t
/12)]−Actual General Revenue;
0}
Where:
(A) Base Year Revenue is the recipient's general revenue for the most recent full fiscal year prior to the COVID-19 public health emergency;
(B) Growth Adjustment is equal to the greater of 5.2 percent (or 0.052) and the recipient's average annual revenue growth over the three full fiscal years prior to the COVID-19 public health emergency;
(C) n equals the number of months elapsed from the end of the base year to the calculation date;
(D) Subscript t denotes the specific calculation date; and
(E) Actual General Revenue is a recipient's actual general revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on each calculation date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, except:
(
1
) For purposes of all calculation dates on or after April 1, 2022, in the case of any change made after January 6, 2022, to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of decreasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must add to actual general revenue the amount of such decrease in tax revenue;
(
2
) For purposes of any calculation date on or after April 1, 2022, in the case of any change made after January 6, 2022, to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that increases any tax (by providing for an increase in a rate, the reduction of a rebate, a deduction, or a credit, or otherwise) or accelerates the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of increasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must subtract from actual general revenue the amount of such increase in tax revenue; and
(
3
) If the recipient makes a one-time election to adjust general revenue to reflect tax changes made during the period beginning on January 27, 2020 and ending on January 6, 2022, for purposes
of each calculation date identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section:
(
i
) In the case of any change made during such prior period to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that reduces any tax (by providing for a reduction in a rate, a rebate, a deduction, a credit, or otherwise) or delays the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of decreasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must add to actual general revenue the amount of such decrease in tax revenue; and
(
ii
) In the case of any change made during such prior period to any law, regulation, or administrative interpretation that increases any tax (by providing for an increase in a rate, the reduction of a rebate, a deduction, or a credit, or otherwise) or accelerates the imposition of any tax or tax increase and that the recipient assesses has had the effect of increasing the amount of tax revenue collected during the 12-month period ending on the calculation date relative to the amount of tax revenue that would have been collected in the absence of such change, the recipient must subtract from actual general revenue the amount of such increase in tax revenue; and
(
4
) With respect to any calculation date during the period beginning on January 6, 2022, and ending on March 31, 2022, if the recipient makes the election in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the recipient must also make the adjustments referenced in paragraph (d)(3) of this section with respect to any such changes in law, regulation, or administrative interpretation during the period beginning on January 6, 2022, and ending on such calculation date.
(e)
Making necessary investments in water, sewer, and broadband infrastructure.
A recipient may use funds to make the following investments in water, sewer, and broadband infrastructure.
(1)
Water and sewer investments
—(i)
Clean Water State Revolving Fund projects.
Projects or activities of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of section 603(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(c));
(ii)
Additional stormwater projects.
Projects to manage, reduce, treat, or recapture stormwater or subsurface drainage water regardless of whether such projects would improve water quality if such projects would otherwise meet the eligibility requirements of section 603(c)(5) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(c)(5));
(iii)
Drinking Water State Revolving Fund projects.
Projects or activities of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12) as implemented by the regulations adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under 40 CFR 35.3520, provided that:
(A) The recipient is not required to comply with the limitation under 40 CFR 35.3520(c)(2) to acquisitions of land from willing sellers or the prohibition under 40 CFR 35.3520(e)(6) on uses of funds for certain Tribal projects; and
(B) In the case of lead service line replacement projects, the recipient must replace the full length of the service line and may not replace only a partial portion of the service line.
(iv)
Additional lead remediation and household water quality testing.
Projects or activities to address lead in drinking water or provide household water quality testing that are within the scope of the programs the EPA is authorized to establish under sections 1459A(b)(2), 1459B(b)(1), 1464(d)(2), and 1465 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-19a(b)(2), 300j-19b(b)(1), 300j-24(d)(2), and 300j-25), provided that:
(A) In the case of lead service line replacement projects, the recipient must replace the full length of the service line and may not replace only a partial portion of the service line; and
(B) In the case of projects within the scope of the program the EPA is authorized to establish under section 1459B(b)(1) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, the recipient may determine the income eligibility of homeowners served by lead service line replacement projects in its discretion.
(v)
Drinking water projects to support increased population.
Projects of the type that meet the eligibility requirements of 40 CFR 35.3520 other than the requirement of 40 CFR 35.3520(b)(1) to address present or prevent future violations of health-based drinking water standards, if the following conditions are met:
(A) The project is needed to support increased population, with need assessed as of the time the project is undertaken;
(B) The project is designed to support no more than a reasonable level of projected increased need, whether due to population growth or otherwise;
(C) The project is a cost-effective means for achieving the desired level of service; and
(D) The project is projected to continue to provide an adequate level of drinking water over its estimated useful life.
(vi)
Dams and reservoirs.
Rehabilitation of dams and reservoirs if the following conditions are met:
(A) The project meets the requirements of 40 CFR 35.3520 other than the following requirements:
(1)
The prohibition on the rehabilitation of dams and reservoirs in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of 40 CFR 35.3520; and
(2)
The requirement in paragraph (b)(1) of 40 CFR 35.3520 that the project is needed to address present or prevent future violations of health-based drinking water standards, provided that if the dam or reservoir project does not meet this requirement, the project must be needed to support increased population, with need assessed as of the time the project is undertaken, and the project must be projected to continue to provide an adequate level of drinking water over its estimated useful life;
(B) The primary purpose of the dam or reservoir is for drinking water supply;
(C) The project is needed for the provision of drinking water supply, with need assessed as of the time the project is initiated;
(D) The project is designed to support no more than a reasonable level of projected increased need, whether due to population growth or otherwise; and
(E) The project is a cost-effective means for achieving the desired level of service.
(vii)
Private wells.
Rehabilitation of private wells, testing initiatives to identify contaminants in private wells, and treatment activities and remediation projects that address contamination in private wells, if the project meets the requirements of 40 CFR 35.3520 other than the limitation to certain eligible systems under paragraph (a) of 40 CFR 35.3520.
(2)
Broadband investments
—(i)
General.
Broadband infrastructure if the following conditions are met:
(A) The broadband infrastructure is designed to provide service to households and businesses with an identified need, as determined by the recipient, for such infrastructure;
(B) The broadband infrastructure is designed to, upon completion:
(
1
) Reliably meet or exceed symmetrical 100 Mbps download speed and upload speeds; or
(
2
) In cases where it is not practicable, because of the excessive cost of the project or geography or topography of the area to be served by the project, to provide service reliably meeting or exceeding symmetrical 100 Mbps download speed and upload speeds:
(i)
Reliably meet or exceed 100 Mbps download speed and between at least 20 Mbps and 100 Mbps upload speed; and
(ii)
Be scalable to a minimum of 100 Mbps download speed and 100 Mbps upload speed; and
(C) The service provider for a completed broadband infrastructure investment project that provides service to households is required, for as long as the SLFRF-funded broadband infrastructure is in use, by the recipient to:
(
1
) Participate in the Federal Communications Commission's Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) through the lifetime of the ACP; or
(
2
) Otherwise provide access to a broad-based affordability program to low-income consumers in the proposed service area of the broadband infrastructure that provides benefits to households commensurate with those provided under the ACP through the lifetime of the ACP.
(ii)
Cybersecurity infrastructure investments.
Cybersecurity infrastructure investments that are designed to improve the reliability and resiliency of new and existing broadband infrastructure. Such investments may include the addition or modernization of network security hardware and software tools designed to strengthen cybersecurity for the end-users of these networks.
(f)
Meeting the non-Federal matching requirements for Bureau of Reclamation projects.
A recipient may use funds to meet the non-Federal matching requirements of any authorized Bureau of Reclamation project.
(g)
Natural Disaster Emergency Relief.
Subject to paragraph (g)(3) of this section, a recipient may use funds to provide emergency relief from the physical impacts or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster, including the forms of emergency relief identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, if the use meets the criteria provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(1)
Identifying emergency relief from the physical or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster.
A recipient provides emergency relief from the physical impacts or negative economic impacts of a natural disaster when the recipient:
(i) Identifies either:
(A) a natural disaster that has occurred or is expected to occur imminently and that has been the subject of an emergency declaration or designation applicable to the recipient's geography and jurisdiction in the form of:
(1)
an emergency declaration pursuant to the Stafford Act;
(2)
an emergency declaration by the Governor of a state pursuant to state law;
(3)
an emergency declaration made by a Tribal government; or
(4)
a designation as a natural disaster by the chief executive (or equivalent) of the recipient, provided that the chief executive (or equivalent) documents that the event meets the definition of natural disaster; or
(B) a natural disaster that is threatened to occur in the future, provided that the recipient documents evidence of historical patterns or predictions of natural disasters that would reasonably demonstrate the likelihood of the future occurrence of a natural disaster in the recipient's jurisdiction; and
(ii) Provides emergency relief that responds to and is related and reasonably proportional to:
(A) the physical or negative economic impacts of the natural disaster identified in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section, or
(B) the potential physical or negative economic impacts of the natural disaster identified in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(2)
Enumerated eligible uses.
A recipient may use funds to provide emergency relief from
(i) the physical or negative economic impacts of natural disasters identified under paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section by engaging in one of the following activities, provided that the emergency relief is related and reasonably proportional to the physical or negative economic impacts of the natural disaster identified:
(A) Temporary emergency housing, food assistance, and financial assistance for lost wages;
(B) Emergency protective measures, including assistance for emergency access, medical care and transport, emergency operations center related costs, and other activities traditionally undertaken as part of emergency response;
(C) Debris removal activities, including the clearance, removal, and disposal of vegetative debris, construction and demolition debris, sand, mud, silt, gravel, rocks, boulders, white goods, and vehicle and vessel wreckage;
(D) Restoration of public infrastructure damaged by a natural disaster, including roads, bridges, and utilities;
(E) Increased operational costs, including payroll costs and costs for government facilities and government services;
(F) Cash assistance for uninsured or underinsured expenses, and cash assistance serving low-income households; or
(G) Home repairs for uninhabitable primary residences; or
(ii) the potential physical or negative economic impacts of natural disasters identified under paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B) of this section by using funds for mitigation activities, provided that the
emergency relief is related and reasonably proportional to the potential physical or negative economic impacts of the natural disaster identified, and provided further that if funds are used for capital expenditures under this paragraph, a recipient, other than a Tribal government, must prepare a written justification for activities under this paragraph (g)(2)(ii) with total capital expenditures of $1 million or greater. Such written justification must include the following elements:
(A) Describe the emergency relief provided by the mitigation activity and why it is needed to lessen or avert the potential impacts of the natural disaster that is threatened to occur in the future;
(B) Explain why the capital expenditure is appropriate to address the need for emergency relief; and
(C) Compare the proposed capital expenditure to at least two alternative capital expenditures and demonstrate why the proposed capital expenditure is superior.
(3)
Duplication of benefits.
(A) A recipient may not provide financial assistance under this paragraph (g) to a person, business concern, or other entity with respect to disaster losses for which such beneficiary will receive financial assistance under any other program or from insurance or any other source.
(B) A recipient may provide assistance with respect to disaster losses to a person, business concern, or other entity that is or may be entitled to receive assistance for those losses from another source, if such person, business concern, or other entity has not received the other benefits by the time of application for assistance and the person, business concern, or other entity agrees to repay any duplicative assistance to the recipient. A recipient providing assistance with respect to disaster losses shall coordinate with the relevant Regional Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state disaster-assistance administrator. Recipients shall notify subrecipients and contractors that, when providing assistance with respect to disaster losses, those entities are responsible for ensuring that beneficiaries disclose any other assistance received for the same disaster losses prior to receiving assistance under this paragraph (g).
(C) Funds shall be used last in the delivery sequence unless the recipient, in consultation with the appropriate Regional Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency or state disaster-assistance administrator, determines that another sequence is appropriate.
(h)
Certain infrastructure projects.
A recipient may use funds for Surface Transportation projects as set forth in paragraph (h)(1) of this section and for Title I projects as set forth in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, subject to the requirements set forth in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(1)
Surface Transportation projects.
A recipient may use funds for Surface Transportation projects in the manner set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i)(A) A recipient may use funds to expand the scope of, to cover additional costs associated with, or to otherwise supplement funding for a project receiving funding from the Department of Transportation at the time that the funds are obligated and expended for the project.
(B) A recipient may use funds for a Surface Transportation project that is not funded by the Department of Transportation at the time the funds are obligated and expended.
(C) A recipient may use funds to satisfy non-Federal share requirements for a project eligible under the provisions identified in paragraphs (1), (18), (21), and (27) of the definition of “Surface Transportation project” in § 35.3 or to repay a loan provided under the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program under 23 U.S.C. chapter 6.
(ii) The following limitations and requirements apply to funds used for Surface Transportation projects under paragraphs (h)(1)(i)(A) and (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(A) Funds used for Surface Transportation projects eligible under the provisions set forth in paragraphs (20) through (24) of the definition of “Surface Transportation projects” in § 35.3
shall not be used for operating expenses of such a project.
(B) Except as otherwise determined by the Secretary or the head of the Federal agency to which the Secretary has delegated authority, the requirements of titles 23, 40, and 49 of the U.S. Code, and the associated implementing regulations, apply to Surface Transportation projects, including but not limited to the following:
(
1
) Project eligibility requirements;
(
2
) Project approval requirements, provided that such requirements shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section that meet the following criteria:
(
i
) The project qualifies as an “eligible project” under the program described in paragraph (17) of the definition of Surface Transportation project set forth in § 35.3;
(
ii
) The recipient does not use more than $10 million in funds for the project; and
(
iii
) The entire project scope, including for avoidance of doubt any portion of the project funded through other sources, is limited to the actions or activities listed under 23 CFR 771.116(c)(1) through(22), 23 CFR 771.117(c)(1) through(30), and 23 CFR 771.118(c)(1) through(16), provided that the actions or activities do not involve unusual circumstances, as described in 23 CFR 771.116(b), 23 CFR 771.117(b), and 23 CFR 771.118(b).
(
3
) Wage and employee protection requirements, including the requirements set forth at 23 U.S.C. 113 and 49 U.S.C. 5333(a) and (b);
(
4
) Domestic preference procurement requirements, including the requirements set forth at 23 U.S.C. 313, 49 U.S.C. 5323(j), 49 CFR part 661, and 23 CFR 635.410, provided that such requirements shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section that meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iii
) of this section;
(
5
) Project design, planning, construction, operation, maintenance, vehicle weight limit, and toll requirements, provided that the requirement to include Surface Transportation projects in a state transportation improvement program or transportation improvement program shall not apply to Surface Transportation projects undertaken pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this section except in circumstances when the project is regionally significant and requires action by an office of the Department of Transportation pursuant to 23 CFR 450.218.
(C) Except as otherwise determined by the Secretary or the head of the Federal agency to which the Secretary has delegated authority, the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
), and the associated implementing regulations, apply to Surface Transportation projects.
(D) When a State uses funds for a Surface Transportation project eligible under title 23 of the U.S. Code or that otherwise would be subject to the requirements of title 23, the project must either:
(1)
Demonstrate progress in achieving a state of good repair as required by the State's asset management plan under 23 U.S.C. 119(e), or
(2)
Support the achievement of one or more performance targets of the State established under 23 U.S.C. 150.
(2)
Title I projects.
A recipient may use funds for Title I projects, subject to the following limitations and requirements:
(i) Except as otherwise determined by the Secretary or the head of the Federal agency to which the Secretary has delegated authority, the requirements of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
), and the associated implementing regulations, apply to Title I projects, including:
(A) At least 70 percent of funds used for such projects, in the aggregate, must be used for projects that principally benefit low- and moderate-income persons, in accordance with the definitions and requirements set forth at 24 CFR 570.3, 24 CFR 570.200(a)(3), and 24 CFR 570.208(a) for recipients that are not Tribal governments, and at 24 CFR 1003.4 and 1003.208 for Tribal government recipients; provided, however, that Tribal governments may demonstrate that beneficiaries of Title I assistance are “low and moderate income beneficiaries,” as defined at 24
CFR 1003.4, based on an attestation by the Tribal government that these beneficiaries are receiving or are eligible to receive services administered by the Tribal government on the basis of an individual's income.
(B) In the case of recipients that are not Tribal governments, funds used for projects must satisfy at least one of the national objectives as set forth in 24 CFR 570.208.
(C) Not more than 15 percent of funds used for such projects, in the aggregate, may be used for public services activities and projects eligible under 42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(8).
(D) Not more than 20 percent of funds used for such projects, in the aggregate, may be used for planning and administrative costs, as described at 24 CFR 570.200(g), 570.205, and 570.206 with respect to recipients that are not Tribal governments, and as described at 24 CFR 1003.205 and 1003.206 with respect to recipients that are Tribal governments.
(E) In the case of recipients that are not Tribal governments, funds used for such projects must satisfy the requirements set forth at 42 U.S.C. 5310 and 24 CFR 570.603.
(F) Prior to commencing a Title I project, a recipient must comply with the environmental protection measures set forth at 42 U.S.C. 5304(g) and the implementing regulations set forth at 24 CFR 570.604, 24 CFR 1003.605, and 24 CFR part 58, provided that the certification contemplated by 42 U.S.C. 5304(g) shall be submitted to the Secretary and not the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(ii) To the extent a Title I project relates to broadband infrastructure, the requirements of section 60102 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act shall apply.
(3)
Requirements applicable to Surface Transportation projects and Title I projects.
(i) The total amount of funds that a recipient may use for costs incurred for projects set forth in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section, taken together, shall not exceed the greater of $10,000,000 and 30 percent of the recipient's total award received pursuant to payment or transfer of funds made under section 602 or 603 of the Social Security Act.
(ii) Funds used for the projects set forth in paragraph (h) of this section must supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, territorial, Tribal, and local government funds (as applicable) that
(A) in the case of non-Federal funds, have been obligated for activities or projects that are eligible as part of any Surface Transportation project or Title I project, as applicable, or
(B) in the case of Federal funds, a Federal agency has committed to a particular project pursuant to an award agreement or otherwise.
§ 35.7
Pensions.
A recipient (other than a Tribal government) may not use funds for deposit into any pension fund.
§ 35.8
Tax.
(a)
Restriction.
A State or Territory shall not use funds to either directly or indirectly offset a reduction in the net tax revenue of the State or Territory resulting from a covered change during the covered period.
(b)
Violation.
Treasury will consider a State or Territory to have used funds to offset a reduction in net tax revenue if, during a reporting year:
(1)
Covered change.
The State or Territory has made a covered change that, either based on a reasonable statistical methodology to isolate the impact of the covered change in actual revenue or based on projections that use reasonable assumptions and do not incorporate the effects of macroeconomic growth to reduce or increase the projected impact of the covered change, the State or Territory assesses has had or predicts to have the effect of reducing tax revenue relative to current law;
(2)
Exceeds the de minimis threshold.
The aggregate amount of the measured or predicted reductions in tax revenue caused by covered changes identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in the aggregate, exceeds 1 percent of the State's or Territory's baseline;
(3)
Reduction in net tax revenue.
The State or Territory reports a reduction in net tax revenue, measured as the difference between actual tax revenue and the State's or Territory's baseline,
each measured as of the end of the reporting year; and
(4)
Consideration of other changes.
The aggregate amount of measured or predicted reductions in tax revenue caused by covered changes is greater than the sum of the following, in each case, as calculated for the reporting year:
(i) The aggregate amount of the expected increases in tax revenue caused by one or more covered changes that, either based on a reasonable statistical methodology to isolate the impact of the covered change in actual revenue or based on projections that use reasonable assumptions and do not incorporate the effects of macroeconomic growth to reduce or increase the projected impact of the covered change, the State or Territory assesses has had or predicts to have the effect of increasing tax revenue; and
(ii) Reductions in spending, up to the amount of the State's or Territory's net reduction in total spending, that are in:
(A) Departments, agencies, or authorities in which the State or Territory is not using funds; and
(B) Departments, agencies, or authorities in which the State or Territory is using funds, in an amount equal to the value of the spending cuts in those departments, agencies, or authorities, minus funds used.
(c)
Amount and revenue reduction cap.
If a State or Territory is considered to be in violation pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the amount used in violation of paragraph (a) of this section is equal to the lesser of:
(1) The reduction in net tax revenue of the State or Territory for the reporting year, measured as the difference between the State's or Territory's baseline and its actual tax revenue, each measured as of the end of the reporting year; and,
(2) The aggregate amount of the reductions in tax revenues caused by covered changes identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, minus the sum of the amounts in identified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
§ 35.9
Compliance with applicable laws.
A recipient must comply with all other applicable Federal statutes, regulations, and executive orders, and a recipient shall provide for compliance with the American Rescue Plan Act, this subpart, and any interpretive guidance by other parties in any agreements it enters into with other parties relating to these funds.
§ 35.10
Recoupment.
(a)
Identification of violations
—(1)
In general.
Any amount used in violation of § 35.5, § 35.6, or § 35.7 may be identified at any time prior to December 31, 2026.
(2)
Annual reporting of amounts of violations.
On an annual basis, a recipient that is a State or territory must calculate and report any amounts used in violation of § 35.8.
(b)
Calculation of amounts subject to recoupment
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Secretary will calculate any amounts subject to recoupment resulting from a violation of § 35.5, § 35.6 or § 35.7 as the amounts used in violation of such restrictions.
(2)
Violations of § 35.8.
The Secretary will calculate any amounts subject to recoupment resulting from a violation of § 35.8, equal to the lesser of:
(i) The amount set forth in § 35.8(c); and,
(ii) The amount of funds received by such recipient.
(c)
Initial notice.
If the Secretary calculates an amount subject to recoupment under paragraph (b) of this section, Treasury will provide the recipient an initial written notice of the amount subject to recoupment along with an explanation of such amounts.
(d)
Request for reconsideration.
Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, within 60 calendar days of receipt of an initial notice of recoupment provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a recipient may submit a written request to the Secretary requesting reconsideration of any amounts subject to recoupment under paragraph (b) of this section. To request reconsideration of any amounts subject to recoupment, a recipient must submit to the Secretary a written request that includes:
(1) An explanation of why the recipient believes all or some of the amount
should not be subject to recoupment; and
(2) A discussion of supporting reasons, along with any additional information.
(e)
Final amount subject to recoupment.
Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, within 60 calendar days of receipt of the recipient's request for reconsideration provided pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section or the expiration of the period for requesting reconsideration provided under paragraph (d) of this section, the recipient will be notified of the Secretary's decision to affirm, withdraw, or modify the notice of recoupment. Such notification will include an explanation of the decision, including responses to the recipient's supporting reasons and consideration of additional information provided. A recipient must invoke and exhaust the procedures available under this subpart prior to seeking judicial review of a decision under § 35.10.
(f)
Repayment of funds.
Unless the Secretary extends or accelerates the time period, a recipient shall repay to the Secretary any amounts subject to recoupment in accordance with instructions provided by the Secretary:
(1) Within 120 calendar days of receipt of the notice of recoupment provided under paragraph (c) of this section, in the case of a recipient that does not submit a request for reconsideration in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section; or
(2) Within 120 calendar days of receipt of the Secretary's decision under paragraph (e) of this section, in the case of a recipient that submits a request for reconsideration in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
(g)
Other remedial actions.
Prior to seeking recoupment or taking other appropriate action pursuant to paragraphs (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section, the Secretary may notify the recipient of potential violations and provide the recipient an opportunity for informal consultation and remediation.
§ 35.11
Payments to States.
(a)
In general.
With respect to any State or Territory that has an unemployment rate as of the date that it submits an initial certification for payment of funds pursuant to section 602(d)(1) of the Social Security Act that is less than two percentage points above its unemployment rate in February 2020, the Secretary will withhold 50 percent of the amount of funds allocated under section 602(b) of the Social Security Act to such State or territory until at least May 10, 2022 and not more than twelve months from the date such initial certification is provided to the Secretary.
(b)
Payment of withheld amount.
In order to receive the amount withheld under paragraph (a) of this section, the State or Territory must submit to the Secretary the following information:
(1) A certification, in the form provided by the Secretary, that such State or Territory requires the payment to carry out the activities specified in section 602(c) of the Social Security Act and will use the payment in compliance with section 602(c) of the Social Security Act; and
(2) Any reports required to be filed by that date pursuant to this part that have not yet been filed.
§ 35.12
Distributions to nonentitlement units of local government and units of general local government.
(a)
Nonentitlement units of local government.
Each State or Territory that receives a payment from the Secretary pursuant to section 603(b)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act shall distribute the amount of the payment to nonentitlement units of local government in such State or Territory in accordance with the requirements set forth in section 603(b)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act and without offsetting any debt owed by such nonentitlement units of local governments against such payments.
(b)
Budget cap.
A State or Territory may not make a payment to a nonentitlement unit of local government pursuant to section 603(b)(2)(C) of the Social Security Act and paragraph (a) of this section in excess of the amount equal to 75 percent of the most recent budget for the nonentitlement unit of local government as of January 27, 2020. For purposes of this section 35.12, a nonentitlement unit of local government's most recent budget shall mean
the nonentitlement unit of local government's total annual budget, including both operating and capital expenditure budgets, in effect as of January 27, 2020. A State or Territory shall permit a nonentitlement unit of local government without a formal budget as of January 27, 2020, to provide a certification from an authorized officer of the nonentitlement unit of local government of its most recent annual expenditures as of January 27, 2020, and a State or Territory may rely on such certification for purposes of complying with this section 35.12.
(c)
Units of general local government.
Each State or Territory that receives a payment from the Secretary pursuant to section 603(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Social Security Act, in the case of an amount to be paid to a county that is not a unit of general local government, shall distribute the amount of the payment to units of general local government within such county in accordance with the requirements set forth in section 603(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Social Security Act and without offsetting any debt owed by such units of general local government against such payments.
(d)
Additional conditions.
A State or Territory may not place additional conditions or requirements on distributions to nonentitlement units of local government or units of general local government beyond those required by section 603 of the Social Security Act or this subpart A.

# Subpart B—Compensation and Capital Distributions
§ 35.20
Purpose, applicability, and general provisions.
(a)
Purpose.
Pursuant Section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (Act), as added by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Pub. L. 116-260), this subpart establishes restrictions on executive compensation, dividend payments, and share buybacks for recipients of capital investments under the Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program (ECIP or Program), as well as additional criteria for participation in the Program that the Secretary has determined are appropriate in furtherance of the Program goals.
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart applies on a consolidated basis to any insured depository institution, bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or federally insured credit union that issues preferred stock or a subordinated debt instrument to the Department of the Treasury under the Program (an ECIP recipient, as defined in § 35.21 of this subpart). An ECIP recipient must comply with the requirements of this subpart during the ECIP period.
(c)
Limitation of authority.
Nothing in this subpart shall be interpreted to limit the authority of the appropriate Federal banking agency to take action under other provisions of law, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient capital levels, or violations of law or regulation, under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, section 8 of the Bank Holding Company Act, or section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act, or the Federal Credit Union Act, as may be applicable.
§ 35.21
Definitions.
Except as modified in this regulation or unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in this regulation have the same meaning as set forth in the relevant statutes. For purposes of this subpart:
Act
means the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended (12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
).
Appropriate Federal banking agency
has the same meaning as in 12 U.S.C. 1813 and also includes the NCUA with respect to a federally insured credit union.
Capital distributions
means:
(1) Dividends, including discretionary dividends, on non-senior securities and any other payments on a share of stock or other equity or equivalent interest;
(2) Payments, including interest payments, on non-senior securities, that the issuer has full discretion to permanently or temporarily suspend without triggering a default;
(3) Redemptions or repurchases of non-senior securities; or
(4) Any similar transaction that the Department of the Treasury determines to be in substance a capital distribution;
(5) Provided, that a “capital distribution” does not include:
(i) Redemptions or repurchases of shares that are part of an employee stock ownership plan for an ECIP recipient that is not publicly traded, provided that the repurchase is required solely by virtue of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;
(ii) In the case of federally insured credit unions:
(A) Payments of dividends and interest (as defined by 12 CFR 707.2(h) and (o)) on accounts held by their members; provided that this exclusion does not apply to any extraordinary or special dividend by a credit union; or
(B) Redemptions of membership share interests upon voluntary or involuntary terminations of membership by a credit union or its members, as applicable; and
(iii) Solely in the case of § 35.23(b) (Limit on amount of capital distributions), redemptions or repurchases of non-senior securities if the issuer of the non-senior securities being repurchased or redeemed fully funds the redemption or repurchase by issuing at least a corresponding amount of new non-senior securities that rank equally in liquidation with, receive the same capital treatment as and, if applicable, have a stated maturity date no earlier than the non-senior securities being redeemed or repurchased.
ECIP
means the Emergency Capital Investment Program established under Section 104A of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994, as amended.
ECIP investment
means any preferred stock, subordinated debt, or other instrument (including any successor to any such instrument) issued by an ECIP recipient to the Department of the Treasury under the ECIP.
ECIP investment agreement
means the agreement between an ECIP recipient and the Department of the Treasury with respect to the ECIP investment in that ECIP recipient.
ECIP investment date
means the date on which an ECIP recipient first issued an ECIP investment.
ECIP period
means the period from the ECIP investment date until the earliest of:
(1) The date on which the ECIP recipient has fully redeemed or repaid the ECIP investment received under ECIP;
(2) The date on which the investment the ECIP recipient received under the ECIP is no longer held, in full or in part, by the Department of the Treasury or any affiliate thereof; and
(3) Ten years after the ECIP investment date.
ECIP recipient
means any entity that has received a capital investment under the ECIP.
Excessive or luxury expenditures
means:
(1) Excessive expenditures on any of the following to the extent such expenditures are not reasonable expenditures for staff development, reasonable performance incentives, or other similar reasonable measures conducted in the normal course of the ECIP recipient's business operations:
(i) Entertainment or events;
(ii) Office and facility renovations;
(iii) Aviation or other transportation services;
(iv) Tax gross-ups; and
(v) Other similar items, activities, or events for which the ECIP recipient may reasonably anticipate incurring expenses, or reimbursing an employee for incurring expenses;
(2) Provided, that reasonable capital investments in technology, equipment, and similar items that expand the long-term capability of an ECIP recipient to provide products and services to its customers and community are not excessive or luxury expenditures.
Excessive or luxury expenditures policy
means written standards applicable to the ECIP recipient and its employees that address the five categories of expenses set forth in the definition of “excessive or luxury expenditures,” and that are reasonably designed to eliminate excessive and luxury expenditures. Such written standards must:
(1) Identify the types or categories of expenditures which are prohibited
(which may include a threshold expenditure amount per item, activity, or event or a threshold expenditure amount per employee receiving the item or participating in the activity or event);
(2) Identify the types or categories of expenditures for which prior approval is required (which may include a threshold expenditure amount per item, activity, or event or a threshold expenditure amount per employee receiving the item or participating in the activity or event);
(3) Provide reasonable approval procedures for expenditures requiring prior approval;
(4) Require the ECIP recipient to deliver a certification, executed by two senior executive officers (one of which must be its principal executive officer or principal financial officer) certifying that the approval of any expenditure requiring the prior approval of any senior executive officer, any executive officer of a substantially similar level of responsibility, or the ECIP recipient's board of directors (or a committee of such board of directors), was properly obtained with respect to each such expenditure;
(5) Require the prompt internal reporting of violations to an appropriate person or persons identified in this policy; and
(6) Mandate accountability for adherence to the policy.
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Federal Reserve Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
NCUA
means the National Credit Union Administration.
Non-senior security
means any equity interest or equivalent interest (including but not limited to membership share interests in the case of a credit union) or any other interest in, or instrument issued by, an ECIP recipient that is
pari passu
with, or junior to, the ECIP investment with respect to capital distributions or ranking in liquidation, including but not limited to the common stock (or equivalent equity interest) of the ECIP recipient, or any equity interest or equivalent interest or any other interest in or instrument issued by a depository institution holding company of which the ECIP recipient is a subsidiary.
OCC
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Principal executive officer
means the chief executive officer of an ECIP recipient (or individual performing a similar function).
Principal financial officer
means the chief financial officer of an ECIP recipient (or individual performing a similar function).
Senior executive officer
means an ECIP recipient's president, any vice president in charge of a principal business unit, division or function, any other officer who performs a policy making function, or any other person who performs similar policy making functions.
Severance payment
means any payment or benefit provided to an officer or employee of an ECIP recipient in connection with any termination of such officer or employee's employment with the ECIP recipient (including resignation, severance, retirement, or constructive termination), except for payment for services performed or benefits accrued. A severance payment includes cash payments, health care benefits, perquisites, the enhancement or acceleration of any payment or vesting of any payment or benefit, or any other in-kind benefit payable or provided in connection with any termination of an officer or employee of the ECIP recipient.
Total compensation
means all compensation, other than any severance payment, provided by an ECIP recipient to an officer or employee, including salary, wages, bonuses, awards of stock, deferred compensation, and other financial benefits.
§ 35.22
Restrictions on compensation.
(a)
Restriction on executive compensation.
An ECIP recipient must ensure that the total compensation paid to its senior executive officers is appropriate and not excessive. Unless informed otherwise by the Department of the Treasury, an ECIP recipient is considered to have satisfied the requirements regarding executive compensation in this section if it, and, if applicable, all insured depository institution subsidiaries of
the ECIP recipient, maintains compliance with the following (or any successor requirement, as applicable):
(1) For an ECIP recipient or subsidiary of an ECIP recipient that is an insured depository institution, except for federally insured credit unions, the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness as issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency for the ECIP recipient or subsidiary (
i.e.,
for national banks and Federal savings associations, 12 CFR part 30, appendix A; state member banks, 12 CFR part 208, appendix D-1; insured state nonmember banks and state savings associations, 12 CFR part 364, appendix A);
(2) For an ECIP recipient that is a bank holding company, the requirements for corporate practices of bank holding companies as issued by the Federal Reserve Board at 12 CFR 225.4;
(3) For an ECIP recipient that is a savings and loan holding company, the requirements regarding safe and sound operations of savings and loan holding companies as issued by the Federal Reserve Board at 12 CFR 238.8; and
(4) For an ECIP recipient that is a federally insured credit union, the requirements on compensation and benefits for federally insured credit unions as issued by the NCUA at 12 CFR 701.19(a); 12 CFR 701.21(c)(8); 12 CFR 702.203(b)(10); and 12 CFR 702.204(b)(10).
(b)
Restriction on severance payments.
An ECIP recipient shall not make excessive severance payments to any senior executive officer. Unless informed otherwise by the Department of the Treasury, an ECIP is considered to have satisfied the requirements regarding severance payments in this section if it maintains compliance with the following (or any successor requirement, as applicable):
(1) For an ECIP recipient that is an insured depository institution, a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company, the limits and prohibitions to enter into contracts to pay and to make golden parachute and indemnification payments to institution-affiliated parties to the extent applicable to the ECIP recipient, as issued by the FDIC at 12 CFR part 359; and
(2) For an ECIP recipient that is a federally insured credit union, the limits and prohibitions on the ability of federally insured credit unions to enter into contracts to pay and to make golden parachute and indemnification payments to institution-affiliated parties as issued by the NCUA at 12 CFR 750.1.
(c)
Excessive or luxury expenditures.
(1) Ninety days after an ECIP investment date with respect to an ECIP recipient, the board of directors of the ECIP recipient must adopt an excessive or luxury expenditures policy, provide such policy to the Department of the Treasury and the ECIP recipient's appropriate Federal banking agency, and post the text of such policy on its internet website, if the ECIP recipient maintains an internet website.
(2) If, after adopting an excessive or luxury expenditures policy, the board of directors of the ECIP recipient makes any material amendments to such policy, within ninety days of the adoption of the amended policy the board of directors must provide the amended policy to the Department of the Treasury and the ECIP recipient's appropriate Federal banking agency and post the amended policy on its internet website, if the ECIP recipient maintains an internet website.
(3) The ECIP recipient must maintain, and continue the disclosure of any material amendments to, the excessive or luxury expenditures policy during the ECIP period, unless the Department of the Treasury determines that discontinuation of the policy would not be contrary to the public interest.
(d)
Material changes in policies or procedures.
An ECIP recipient must obtain prior approval from the Department of the Treasury before making any material change to the policies or procedures that it maintains for purposes of compliance with paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. A change to the compensation, severance pay, or excessive or luxury expenditures policies or procedures will be considered material for purposes of this section if the change is likely to have a negative effect on the financial condition of the ECIP recipient, limit the ability of the ECIP recipient to make payments
under the terms of an ECIP instrument, or otherwise impair the ECIP recipient's ability to meet its obligations to the Department of the Treasury under the ECIP.
(1) A request to make a material change to compensation, severance pay or excessive luxury expenditures policies or procedures, must be submitted by an ECIP recipient in writing and received by the Department of the Treasury at least thirty days prior to the effective date of the policy change. The request should describe the change, reason for the change, and anticipated financial or other impact of the change on the condition of the ECIP recipient.
(2) The request will be deemed approved thirty days after the ECIP recipient has provided a complete request to the Department of the Treasury, unless, prior to the expiration of the thirty-day period, the Department of the Treasury objects to the proposed change or notifies the ECIP recipient that additional time is required in order to complete review of the proposed change to policy or procedures
§ 35.23
Restrictions on dividends, share buybacks, and other capital distributions.
(a)
Restriction on capital distributions due to nonpayment.
An ECIP recipient shall not make any capital distribution on a non-senior security, unless:
(1) If the ECIP investment is in the form of preferred stock, the ECIP recipient has paid in full the dividends for the last completed dividend period on the preferred stock; or
(2) If the ECIP investment is in a form other than preferred stock (including, subordinated debt), the ECIP recipient has paid in full the principal, interest, and other amounts due and payable under the terms of the ECIP investment, and no amount that has been deferred remains unpaid.
(b)
Limit on amount of capital distributions.
(1) If an ECIP recipient is an insured depository institution, bank holding company, or savings and loan holding company, the ECIP recipient shall obtain the approval of the Department of the Treasury prior to making any capital distribution if the total of capital distributions made during the calendar year, including the proposed capital distribution, exceeds its eligible distributable income; provided, however, that any prior approval of a capital distribution by the Department of the Treasury does not supersede any applicable regulatory requirements of the ECIP recipient's appropriate Federal banking agency, or other actions taken by such agency. For purposes of this paragraph, “eligible distributable income” means the sum of the ECIP recipient's reported year-to-date net income as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter, plus net income for the two preceding calendar years, less any dividends or distributions for the year to date as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter and the two preceding calendar years, where each amount is calculated in accordance with the instructions to the Call Report or applicable reporting form.
(2) If the ECIP recipient is federally insured credit union, the ECIP recipient shall obtain the Department of the Treasury's prior approval to make any capital distributions if the distribution would:
(i) In the case of a dividend, be payable from retained earnings (as defined in 12 CFR 702.2(f)) other than undivided earnings; or
(ii) Cause the ECIP recipient's net worth classification to fall below “adequately capitalized” (as defined in 12 CFR 702.102(a)(2)).
(c)
Exception for Subchapter S Corporations and other pass-through entities.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, any ECIP recipient that is an S corporation, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1361(a), or other pass-through entity may make capital distributions, to the extent reasonably required to cover its owners' tax obligations in respect to the entity's earnings. Such distributions shall be subject to an annual reconciliation, with any surplus or deficiency to be deducted or added to distributions, as applicable, in the following year. Any tax-related distributions permitted under this paragraph (c) must also comply with any applicable limitations or determinations established by an ECIP recipient's Federal regulators.
§ 35.24
Annual certification.
On an annual basis an ECIP recipient shall, in accordance with the terms and conditions of its ECIP investment agreement, submit to the Department of the Treasury a certification executed by two senior executive officers (one of which must be either its principal executive officer or principal financial officer) that the ECIP recipient is in compliance with each of the excessive compensation, severance pay, and excessive or luxury expenditures requirements and restrictions on capital distributions set forth in §§ 35.22 and 35.23.
§ 35.25
Exemptive relief.
The Department of the Treasury may grant exemptions or waivers from some or all of the restrictions on share buybacks and dividend payments under this part if such exemption or waiver is necessary or appropriate to effectuate the goals of the ECIP or to protect the public interest. Such exemptions or waivers may be subject to such terms and conditions as deemed necessary or appropriate by the Department of the Treasury.

# Subpart C—State Small Business Credit Initiative Small Business Owners Demographics Data Collection

# Source:
87 FR 13633, Mar. 10, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 35.26
Authority, scope, and purpose.
(a)
Authority and scope.
This subpart is issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury pursuant to Sections 3007 and 3010 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, as amended by the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (12 U.S.C. 5706, 5709).
(b)
Purpose.
The U.S. Department of the Treasury is collecting demographics-related data regarding those who own or control businesses that receive a loan, investment, other credit or equity support, or technical assistance under the State Small Business Credit Initiative for purposes of implementation, compliance, and understanding program outcomes.
§ 35.27
Definitions.
In this subpart:
(a)
Controlling influence over a business
means having the power to control, manage, or direct the business. A person is presumed to have a controlling influence over a business if the person is a senior executive officer or senior manager of the business (e.g., Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer), or any other individual who regularly performs similar functions.
(b)
Jurisdiction
means:
(1) One of the fifty states of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the United States Virgin Islands;
(3) When designated by one of the fifty states of the United States, a political subdivision of that state that the U.S. Department of the Treasury determines has the capacity to participate in the State Small Business Credit Initiative;
(4) Under the circumstances described in 12 U.S.C. 5703(d), a municipality of one of the fifty states of the United States to which the U.S. Department of the Treasury has given a special permission under 12 U.S.C. 5703(d); and
(5) A Tribal government or a group of Tribal governments that jointly apply to be approved by the U.S. Department of Treasury to participate in the State Small Business Credit Initiative as a single participating jurisdiction.
(c)
Minority individual
means a natural person who identifies as American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; or Hispanic or Latino/a; or one or more than one of these groups.
(d)
Minority-owned or controlled business
means a business that:
(1) If privately owned, 51 percent or more is owned by minority individuals;
(2) If publicly owned, 51 percent or more of the stock is owned by minority individuals;
(3) In the case of a mutual institution, a majority of the board of directors, account holders, and the community which the institution services is
predominantly comprised of minority individuals; or
(4) One or more minority individuals have the power to exercise a controlling influence over the business.
(e)
Participating jurisdiction
means a jurisdiction that has been approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury for participation in the State Small Business Credit Initiative.
(f)
Principal owner
of a business means a natural person who directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, owns 25 percent or more of the equity interests of the business. If a trust owns, directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, 25 percent or more of the equity interests of the business, the trustee is a principal owner.
(g)
Socially and economically disadvantaged individual (SEDI) demographics-related business
means a business owned and controlled by individuals who have had their access to credit on reasonable terms diminished compared to others in comparable economic circumstances, due to their:
(1) Membership of a group that has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society;
(2) Gender;
(3) Veteran status;
(4) Limited English proficiency;
(5) Disability;
(6) Long-term residence in an environment isolated from the mainstream of American society;
(7) Membership of a federally or state-recognized Indian Tribe;
(8) Long-term residence in a rural community;
(9) Residence in a U.S. territory;
(10) Residence in a community undergoing economic transitions (including communities impacted by the shift towards a net-zero economy or deindustrialization); or
(11) Membership of an
underserved community.
(i)
Underserved communities
are populations sharing a particular characteristic, as well as geographic communities, that have been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life, as exemplified by the list in the definition of
equity
in paragraph (g)(11)(ii) of this section; and
(ii)
Equity
is consistent and systematic fair, just, and impartial treatment of all individuals, including individuals who belong to underserved communities that have been denied such treatment, such as Black, Latino, and Indigenous and Native American persons, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, and other persons of color; members of religious minorities; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) persons; persons with disabilities; persons who live in rural areas; and persons otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.
(12) For purposes of this paragraph (g), a business is “owned and controlled” by applicable individuals:
(i) If privately owned, 51 percent or more is owned by such individuals;
(ii) If publicly owned, 51 percent more or of the stock is owned by such individuals; and
(ii) In the case of a mutual institution, if a majority of the board of directors, account holders, and the community which the institution services is predominantly comprised of such individuals.
(h)
Veteran-owned or controlled business
means a business that:
(1) If privately owned, 51 percent or more is owned by veterans;
(2) If publicly owned, 51 percent or more of the stock is owned by veterans;
(3) In the case of a mutual institution, a majority of the board of directors, account holders, and the community which the institution services is predominantly comprised of veterans; or
(4) One or more individuals who are veterans have the power to exercise a controlling influence over the business.
(i)
Women-owned or controlled business
means a business that:
(1) If privately owned, 51 percent or more is owned by females;
(2) If publicly owned, 51 percent or more of the stock is owned by females;
(3) In the case of a mutual institution, a majority of the board of directors, account holders, and the community which the institution services is
predominantly comprised of females; or
(4) One or more individuals who are females have the power to exercise a controlling influence over the business.
§ 35.28
Annual report requirements.
By March 31 of each year beginning March 31, 2023, and ending with the report to be submitted on March 31, 2028, each participating jurisdiction shall submit to the U.S. Department of the Treasury an annual report that includes, with respect to the previous calendar year, the following data for each business that receives a loan, investment, other credit or equity support, or technical assistance as part of the State Small Business Credit Initiative. For each business that receives a loan, investment, or other credit or equity support under the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the reported data shall be based on the ownership and control of the business immediately before the consummation of such loan, investment, or other credit or equity support-related transaction. For each business that receives technical assistance under the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the reported data shall be based on the ownership and control of the business at the time it receives such technical assistance.
(a)
Self-certified SEDI demographics-related business status.
(1) Indicate which one or more of the following categories apply: Self-certified due to membership of a group that has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society; self-certified due to gender; self-certified due to veteran status; self-certified due to limited English proficiency; self-certified due to disability; self-certified due to long-term residence in an environment isolated from the mainstream of American society; self-certified due to membership of a federally or state-recognized Indian Tribe; self-certified due to long-term residence in a rural community; self-certified due to residence in a U.S. territory; self-certified due to residence in a community undergoing economic transitions (including communities impacted by the shift towards a net-zero economy or deindustrialization); self-certified due to membership of an “underserved community” as defined in § 35.27(g)(11)(i); none of the preceding categories are applicable; prefer not to respond; or the business did not answer.
(2) The participating jurisdiction must permit each business to identify all of the categories that apply in the definition of SEDI demographics-related business, and the participating jurisdiction must report to Treasury all categories identified by the business.
(b)
Minority-owned or controlled business status.
Indicate whether the business is a minority-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(c)
Women-owned or controlled business status.
Indicate whether the business is a women-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(d)
Veteran-owned or controlled business status.
Indicate whether the business is a veteran-owned or controlled business. The participating jurisdiction must indicate yes; no; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(e)
Race of principal owners.
(1) For each principal owner of the business, indicate which one or more of the following race categories (including the Office of Management and Budget's minimum categories and the relevant disaggregated categories) with which the principal owner identifies: American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Asian disaggregated categories: Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Asian (Other); Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander disaggregated categories: Guamanian or Chamorro, Native Hawaiian, Samoan, Pacific Islander (Other); White; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(2) The participating jurisdiction must permit each business to identify all of the Office of Management and Budget's minimum categories and disaggregated categories in paragraph (e)(1) of this section with which each
principal owner of the business identifies, and the participating jurisdiction must report to Treasury all categories identified by the business.
(f)
Ethnicity of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following ethnicity categories the principal owner identifies with: Hispanic or Latino/a; not Hispanic or Latino/a; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(g)
Middle Eastern or North African Ancestry of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following ancestry categories the principal owner identifies with: Middle Eastern or North African; not Middle Eastern or North African; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(h)
Gender of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following gender categories the principal owner identifies with: Female; male; nonbinary; prefer to self-describe, prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer. If the “prefer to self-describe” option is chosen, the participating jurisdiction must provide an option for the business to write in the gender and must report what the business writes in.
(i)
Sexual orientation of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following sexual orientation categories the principal owner identifies with: Gay or lesbian; bisexual; straight, that is, not gay, lesbian, or bisexual; something else; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
(j)
Veteran status of principal owners.
For each principal owner of the business, indicate which of the following categories the principal owner identifies with: Veteran; non-veteran; prefer not to respond; or that the business did not answer.
§ 35.29
Format.
Participating jurisdictions must submit the information required under § 35.28 using the formats specified from time to time on the U.S. Department of the Treasury's website.
Pt. 35, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 35—Emergency Capital Investment Program Model Excessive or Luxury Expenditures Policy

# I. Introduction
A participant in the Emergency Capital Investment Program (ECIP recipient, as defined at 31 CFR 35.21) is required to establish and maintain policies designed to eliminate excessive or luxury expenditures. The term “excessive or luxury expenditures” means excessive expenditures on any of the following to the extent such expenditures are not reasonable expenditures for staff development, reasonable performance incentives, or other similar reasonable measures conducted in the normal course of the ECIP recipient's business operations: (1) Entertainment or events; (2) office and facility renovations; (3) aviation or other transportation services; (4) tax gross-ups; and (5) other similar items, activities, or events for which the ECIP recipient may reasonably anticipate incurring expenses, or reimbursing an employee for incurring expenses.
(1) To facilitate compliance with this requirement, the Department of the Treasury is making available a model excessive or luxury expenditures policy. An ECIP recipient may refer to this model policy for guidance in satisfying the requirement at 31 CFR 35.22(c) to adopt and maintain an excessive or luxury expenditures policy. Alternatively, ECIP recipients may use other forms of, or existing policies relating to, excessive or luxury expenditures, provided that such other forms or policies satisfy all the requirements of the regulation at 31 CFR 35.22(c).
(2) An ECIP recipient's luxury or excessive expenditure policy should be posted on the ECIP recipient's website. Any material amendments to an ECIP recipient's excessive or luxury expenditures policy must made in accordance with the provisions set forth in 31 CFR 35.22(d) (Material changes in policies or procedures). If the ECIP recipient makes any material amendments to this policy, then the ECIP recipient must submit a copy of the amended policy to the Department of the Treasury and post the amended policy on the ECIP recipient's website. ECIP recipients should refer to 31 CFR part 35, subpart B for additional information regarding definitions of terms used in the model policy, disclosure, material changes, certification, and other compliance requirements.

# II. Model Excessive or Luxury Expenditures Policy

# A. Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to establish parameters and internal controls governing
the expenditures of [NAME OF ECIP RECIPIENT] (together with its subsidiaries and controlled affiliates, referred to hereafter as the Organization). Expenditures of the Organization should be customary, prudent, consistent with applicable laws and regulations, and reasonably related to the Organization's business objectives and needs. This policy identifies expenditures that are excessive or luxury expenditures, creates processes that are reasonably designed to eliminate such expenditures, and establishes accountability for compliance. Routine operating expenses, capital expenditures, and other reasonable expenses are not prohibited by this policy.

# B. Authority
The Organization has authority to provide compensation and benefits that are reasonable. This policy establishes a prohibition on expenditures that are excessive or luxury expenditures as required by the Department of the Treasury's Emergency Capital Investment Program regulations (31 CFR part 35), and as may be required by other statutes and regulations.

# C. Responsibility
This policy is the responsibility of the Organization's board of directors (board). The board has approved this policy and will review compliance with this policy no less frequently than annually, and summary data on excessive or luxury expenditures will be reported to the board as part of the compliance review.

# D. Scope
This policy applies to all employees, officers, and directors of the Organization with regard to any expenditure of the Organization. In making any expenditure on behalf of the Organization, employees, officers, and directors should consider whether the expenditure is an excessive or luxury expenditure that is prohibited under this policy.

# E. Excessive or Luxury Expenditures
“Excessive or luxury expenditures” means excessive expenditures on any of the following to the extent not reasonable or appropriate expenditures for business development, staff development, reasonable performance incentives, or other similar reasonable measures conducted in the normal course of the Organization's business operations:
(1)
Entertainment or events.
This category includes fees, dues, tickets costs related to social, athletic, artistic and dining clubs, activities, celebrations or other events, and similar expenditures. Expenditures for charitable contributions and charitable events are not prohibited under this policy. Entertainment or events expenditures in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
(2)
Office and facility renovations.
This category includes costs and allowances for office renovation, including expenditures related to furniture, art, office personalization, interior finishing, design and decoration, and similar expenditures. Office and facility renovations expenditures in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
(3)
Aviation or other transportation services.
(i) This category includes charter fees, tickets, slip or docking fees, vehicle installment payments, reservation and travel agent expenses, and similar expenditures associated with transportation services (
e.g.,
airline, train, rental cars, or vans). Mileage reimbursable according to current Internal Revenue Service mileage rates is exempt from this policy. Transportation services in an amount less than $___ per instance, and $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual, are exempt from this policy.
(ii) The principal executive officer may establish or delegate to an appropriate executive officer the authority to establish processes for reimbursement of reasonable travel expenditures, which processes must be reviewed by executive management no less frequently than annually.
(4)
Tax gross-ups.
This category includes any reimbursement of taxes owed with respect to any compensation. This category does not apply to tax equalization agreements for employees subject to tax from a non-U.S. jurisdiction.
(5)
Other similar items, activities, or events for which the Organization may reasonably anticipate incurring expenses or reimbursing an employee for incurring expenses.
(i) Expenditures related to other items not listed in the preceding categories are exempt from this policy in an amount less than $___ per instance, and together with all expenditures permitted under this policy, may not exceed $___ on an annual aggregate basis per individual.
(ii) For the avoidance of doubt, reasonable capital investments in technology, equipment, and similar items that expand the long-term capability of an ECIP recipient to provide products and services to its customers and community are not excessive or luxury expenditures.
(iii) The principal executive officer may establish or delegate to an appropriate executive officer the authority to establish processes for the evaluation and approval of expenditures in the preceding categories that are not luxury or excessive expenditures and that are not otherwise exempt from this policy. These processes must be reviewed by executive management no less frequently than annually, as well as any additional threshold expenditure amounts per item, activity, or event, or a threshold expenditure amount per
employee receiving the item or participating in the activity or event under this policy. Such approvals must be reported to the board of directors (which may be in an appropriate summary form) no less frequently than annually.

# F. Exceptions or Violations
(1) Any exception or violation of this policy must be promptly reported to the Organization's (i) principal executive officer, (ii) officer with primary responsibility for the Organization's compliance function, or (iii) officer designated with primary responsibility for overseeing the administration, monitoring, and compliance with this policy. Exceptions and violations must be reported to the board of directors no less frequently than annually, or more frequently as the nature and severity of violation may warrant. All employees, officers, and directors of the Organization must adhere to this policy and will be held accountable for compliance. Any employee or officer who violates this policy may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment.
(2) Any employee or officer that is aware of any circumstance that may indicate a violation of this policy is required to report such circumstance to their supervisor or the Organization's principal compliance officer or compliance group. The Organization prohibits retaliation against any employee or officer for making a good faith report of actual or suspected violations of the Organization's code of conduct, laws, regulations, or other Organization policies, including this policy. A finding of retaliation against any such employee or officer may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination. Failure to promptly report known violations by others may also be deemed a violation of the Organization's code of conduct.
(3) Employees and officers may ask questions, raise concerns, or report instances of non-compliance with this policy and/or any of the existing underlying relevant policies by contacting the following: [COMPLIANCE HELP LINE OR E-MAIL].

# G. Certification
On an annual basis, the ECIP recipient will deliver to the Department of the Treasury a certification, executed by two senior executive officers (one of which must be either the ECIP recipient's principal executive officer or principal financial officer) certifying that (i) the Organization is in compliance with this policy and (ii) the approval of any expenditure requiring the prior approval of any senior executive officer, any executive officer of a substantially similar level of responsibility, or the board of directors (or a committee of such board), was properly obtained with respect to each such expenditure.
Pt. 50

# PART 50—TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
50.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
50.2
Responsible office.
50.3
Mandatory participation in program.
50.4
Definitions.
50.5
Rule of construction for dates.
50.6
Special rules for Interim Guidance safe harbors.
50.7
Procedure for requesting determinations of controlling influence.
50.8
Procedure for requesting general interpretations of statute.

# Subpart B—Disclosures as Conditions for Federal Payment
50.10
General disclosure requirements.
50.11
Definition.
50.12
Clear and conspicuous disclosure.
50.13
Offer and renewal.
50.14
Separate line item.
50.15
Cap disclosure.
50.16
Use of model forms.
50.17
General disclosure requirements for State residual market insurance entities and State workers' compensation funds.

# Subpart C—Mandatory Availability
50.20
General mandatory availability requirements.
50.21
Make available.
50.22
No material difference from other coverage.
50.23
Applicability of State law requirements.

# Subpart D—State Residual Market Insurance Entities; Workers' Compensation Funds
50.30
General participation requirements.
50.31
Entities that do not share profits and losses with private sector insurers.
50.32
Entities that share profits and losses with private sector insurers.
50.33
Allocation of premium income associated with entities that do share profits and losses with private sector insurers.
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Data Collection
50.50
General.
50.51
Annual data reporting.
50.52
Small insurer data.
50.53
Collection of claims data.
50.54
Handling of data.

# Subpart G—Certification
50.60
Certification.
50.61
Public communication.
50.62
Certification data collection.
50.63
Notification of certification determination.

# Subpart H—Claims Procedures
50.70
Federal share of compensation.
50.71
Adjustments to the Federal share of compensation.
50.72
Notice of deductible erosion.
50.73
Loss certifications.
50.74
Payment of Federal share of compensation.
50.75
Determination of affiliations.
50.76
Final netting.

# Subpart I—Audit and Investigative Procedures
50.80
Audit authority.
50.81
Recordkeeping.
50.82
Civil penalties.
50.83
Adjustment of civil monetary penalty amount.

# Subpart J—Recoupment and Surcharge Procedures
50.90
Mandatory and discretionary recoupment.
50.91
Determination of recoupment amounts.
50.92
Establishment of Federal terrorism policy surcharge.
50.93
Notification of recoupment.
50.94
Collecting the surcharge.
50.95
Remitting the surcharge.
50.96
Insurer responsibility.

# Subpart K—Federal Cause of Action; Approval of Settlements
50.100
Federal cause of action and remedy.
50.101
State causes of action preempted.
50.102
Advance approval of settlements.
50.103
Procedure for requesting approval of proposed settlements.
50.104
Subrogation.

# Subpart L—Cap on Annual Liability
50.110
Cap on annual liability.
50.111
Notice to Congress.
50.112
Determination of
pro rata
share.
50.113
Application of
pro rata
share.
50.114
Data call authority.
50.115
Final amount.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321; Title I, Pub. L. 107-297, 116 Stat. 2322, as amended by Pub. L. 109-144, 119 Stat. 2660, Pub. L. 110-160, 121 Stat. 1839, Pub. L. 114-1, 129 Stat. 3, and Pub. L. 116-94, 133 Stat. 2534 (15 U.S.C. 6701 note); Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat. 601, Title VII (28 U.S.C. 2461 note).

# Source:
81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 50.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to authority in Title I of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, Public Law 107-297, 116 Stat. 2322, as amended by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, Public Law 109-144, 119 Stat. 2660, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, Public Law 110-160, 121 Stat. 1839, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015, Public Law 114-1, 129 Stat. 3, and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019, Public Law 116-94, 133 Stat. 2534.
(b)
Purpose.
This part contains rules prescribed by the Department of the Treasury to implement and administer the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to insurers subject to the Act and their policyholders and claimants.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.2
Responsible office.
The office responsible for the administration of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act in the Department of the Treasury is the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office within the Federal Insurance Office. The Treasury Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions prescribes the regulations under the Act.
§ 50.3
Mandatory participation in program.
Any entity that meets the definition of an insurer under the Act is required to participate in the Program.
§ 50.4
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Act
means the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (as amended).
(b)
Act of terrorism
—(1)
In general.
The term
act of terrorism
means any act that is certified by the Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Homeland Security:
(i) To be an act of terrorism;
(ii) To be a violent act or an act that is dangerous to human life, property, or infrastructure;
(iii) To have resulted in damage within the United States, or outside of the United States in the case of:
(A) An air carrier (as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102) or a United States flag vessel (or a vessel based principally in the United States, on which United States income tax is paid and whose insurance coverage is subject to regulation in the United States); or
(B) The premises of a United States mission; and
(iv) To have been committed by an individual or individuals as part of an effort to coerce the civilian population of the United States or to influence the policy or affect the conduct of the United States Government by coercion.
(2)
Limitations.
The Secretary is not authorized to certify an act as an act of terrorism if:
(i) The act is committed as part of the course of a war declared by the Congress (except with respect to any coverage for workers' compensation); or
(ii) Property and casualty insurance losses resulting from the act, in the aggregate, do not exceed $5,000,000. For these purposes, property and casualty insurance losses include any amounts subject to payment under a property and casualty insurance policy, even if the policyholder declined to obtain terrorism risk insurance under the policy or is otherwise ultimately responsible for the payment.
(3)
Judicial review precluded.
The Secretary's certification of an act of terrorism, or determination not to certify an act as an act of terrorism, is final and is not subject to judicial review.
(c)(1)
Affiliate
means, with respect to an insurer, any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the insurer. An affiliate must itself meet the definition of insurer to participate in the Program.
(2)(i) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an insurer has control over another insurer for purposes of the Program if:
(A) The insurer directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons owns, controls, or has power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other insurer;
(B) The insurer controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other insurer; or
(C) The Secretary determines, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that an insurer directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other insurer, even if there is no control as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) or (c)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
(ii) An entity, including any affiliate thereof, does not have control or exercise controlling influence over a reciprocal insurer under this section if, as of January 12, 2015, the entity, including any affiliate thereof, was acting as an attorney-in-fact for the reciprocal insurer, provided that the entity does not, for reasons other than activities it may perform under the attorney-in-fact relationship, have control over the reciprocal insurer as otherwise defined under this section.
(3) An insurer described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section is conclusively deemed to have control.
(4) For purposes of a determination of controlling influence under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section, if an insurer is not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, the following rebuttable presumptions will apply:
(i) If an insurer controls another insurer under the laws of a state, and at least one of the factors listed in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section applies, there is a rebuttable presumption that the insurer that has control under state law exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other insurer for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii) If an insurer provides 25 percent or more of another insurer's capital (in the case of a stock insurer), policyholder surplus (in the case of a mutual insurer), or corporate capital (in the case of other entities that qualify as insurers), and at least one of the factors listed in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section applies, there is a rebuttable presumption that the insurer providing such capital, policyholder surplus, or corporate capital exercises a
controlling influence over the management or policies of the receiving insurer for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(iii) If an insurer, at any time during a calendar year, supplies 25 percent or more of the underwriting capacity for that year to an insurer that is a syndicate consisting of one or more incorporated or individual unincorporated underwriters, and at least one of the factors in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section applies, there is a rebuttable presumption that the insurer exercises a controlling influence over the syndicate for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
(iv) If paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section are not applicable, but two or more of the following factors apply to an insurer, with respect to another insurer, there is a rebuttable presumption that the insurer exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other insurer for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section:
(A) The insurer is one of the two largest shareholders of any class of voting stock;
(B) The insurer holds more than 35 percent of the combined debt securities and equity of the other insurer;
(C) The insurer is party to an agreement pursuant to which the insurer possesses a material economic stake in the other insurer resulting from a profit-sharing arrangement, use of common names, facilities or personnel, or the provision of essential services to the other insurer;
(D) The insurer is party to an agreement that enables the insurer to influence a material aspect of the management or policies of the other insurer;
(E) The insurer would have the ability, other than through the holding of revocable proxies, to direct the votes of more than 25 percent of the other insurer's voting stock in the future upon the occurrence of an event;
(F) The insurer has the power to direct the disposition of more than 25 percent of a class of voting stock of the other insurer in a manner other than a widely dispersed or public offering;
(G) The insurer and/or the insurer's representative or nominee constitute more than one member of the other insurer's board of directors; or
(H) The insurer or its nominee or an officer of the insurer serves as the chairman of the board, chairman of the executive committee, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer or in any position with similar policymaking authority in the other insurer.
(5) An insurer that is not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section may request a hearing in which the insurer may rebut a presumption of controlling influence under paragraph (c)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section or otherwise request a determination of controlling influence by presenting and supporting its position through written submissions to Treasury, and in Treasury's discretion, through informal oral presentations, in accordance with the procedure in § 50.7.
(6) An insurer's affiliates for a calendar year, for purposes of subpart H of this part, shall be determined in accordance with the timing requirements laid out in § 50.75 of this part.
(d)
Aggregate Federal share of compensation
means the aggregate amount paid by Treasury for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses in a calendar year.
(e)
Assessment period
means a period, established by Treasury, during which policyholders of property and casualty insurance policies must pay, and insurers must collect, the Federal terrorism policy surcharge for remittance to Treasury.
(f)
Attorney-in-fact
means a person or entity appointed by the subscribers or members of a reciprocal insurer to act for and bind the reciprocal insurer under relevant state law for the benefit of its subscribers or members.
(g)
Captive insurer
means an insurer licensed under the captive insurance laws or regulations of any state.
(h)
Direct earned premium
means direct earned premium for all property and casualty insurance issued by any insurer for insurance against all losses, including losses from an act of terrorism, occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
(1)
State-licensed or admitted insurers.
For a state licensed or admitted insurer that reports to the NAIC, direct earned premium is the premium information for property and casualty insurance reported by the insurer on column 2 of the Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement (commonly known as Statutory Page 14).
(i) Premium information as reported to state regulators through the NAIC should be included in the calculation of direct earned premiums for purposes of the Program only to the extent it reflects premiums for property and casualty insurance issued by the insurer against losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
(ii) Premiums for personal property and casualty lines of insurance (insurance primarily designed to cover personal, family or household risk exposures, with the exception of insurance written to insure 1 to 4 family rental dwellings owned for the business purpose of generating income for the property owner), or premiums for any other insurance coverage that does not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance, should be excluded in the calculation of direct earned premiums for purposes of the Program.
(iii) Personal property and casualty lines of insurance coverage that includes incidental coverage for commercial purposes are primarily personal coverage, and therefore premiums may be fully excluded by an insurer from the calculation of direct earned premium. For purposes of this section, commercial coverage is incidental if less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium is attributable to commercial coverage. Property and casualty insurance against losses occurring at locations other than the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act, or other insurance coverage that does not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance, but that includes incidental coverage for commercial risk exposures at such locations, is primarily not commercial, and therefore premiums for such insurance may also be fully excluded by an insurer from the calculation of direct earned premium. For purposes of this section, property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act is incidental if less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium for the insurance policy is attributable to coverage at such locations. Also for purposes of this section, coverage for commercial risk exposures is incidental if it is combined with coverages that otherwise do not meet the definition of property and casualty insurance and less than 25 percent of the total direct earned premium for the insurance policy is attributable to the coverage for commercial risk exposures.
(iv) If an insurance policy covers both commercial and personal property and casualty exposures, insurers may allocate the premiums in accordance with the proportion of risk between commercial and personal components in order to ascertain direct earned premium. If a policy includes insurance coverage that meets the definition of property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act, but also includes other coverage, insurers may allocate the premiums in accordance with the proportion of risk attributable to the components in order to ascertain direct earned premium.
(2)
Insurers that do not report to NAIC.
An insurer that does not report to the NAIC, but that is licensed or admitted by any state (such as certain farm or county mutual insurers), should use the guidance provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section to assist in ascertaining its direct earned premium.
(i) Direct earned premium may be ascertained by adjusting data maintained by such insurer or reported by such insurer to its state regulator to reflect a breakdown of premiums for commercial and personal property and casualty exposure risk as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section and, if necessary, re-stated to reflect the accrual method of determining direct earned premium versus direct premium.
(ii) Such an insurer should consider other types of payments that compensate the insurer for risk of loss
(contributions, assessments, etc.) as part of its direct earned premium.
(3)
Certain eligible surplus line carrier insurers.
An eligible surplus line carrier insurer listed on the NAIC Quarterly Listing of Alien Insurers must ascertain its direct earned premium by pricing separately its premium for insurance that meets the definition of property and casualty insurance for losses occurring at the locations described in section 102(5)(A) and (B) of the Act.
(4)
Federally approved insurers.
A federally approved insurer, defined under section 102(6)(A)(iii) of the Act, should use a methodology similar to that specified for eligible surplus line carrier insurers in paragraph (h)(3) of this section to calculate its direct earned premium. Such calculation should be adjusted to reflect the limitations on scope of insurance coverage under the Program (
i.e.,
to the extent of Federal approval of property and casualty insurance in connection with maritime, energy or aviation activities).
(i)
Direct written premium
means the premium information for property and casualty insurance that is included by an insurer in column 1 of the Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement or in an equivalent reporting requirement. The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is not included in amounts reported as direct written premium.
(j)
Discretionary recoupment amount
means such amount of the aggregate Federal share of compensation in excess of the mandatory recoupment amount that the Secretary has determined will be recouped pursuant to section 103(e)(7)(D) of the Act.
(k)
Federal Insurance Office
means the Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(l)
Federal terrorism policy surcharge
means the amount established by Treasury under subpart J of this part that is imposed as a policy surcharge on property and casualty insurance policies, expressed as a percentage of the written premium.
(m)
Insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount
means an amount for a calendar year as calculated under section 103(e)(6) of the Act.
(1) For calendar years beginning with 2015 through 2019, such amount is the lesser of the aggregate amount, for all insurers, of insured losses once there has been a Program Trigger Event during the calendar year and:
(i) For calendar year 2015: $29,500,000,000;
(ii) For calendar year 2016: $31,500,000,000;
(iii) For calendar year 2017: $33,500,000,000;
(iv) For calendar year 2018: $35,500,000,000; and
(v) For calendar year 2019: $37,500,000,000.
(2) For calendar years beginning with 2020 and any calendar year thereafter as may be necessary, such amount is the lesser of the aggregate amount, for all insurers, of insured losses once there has been a Program Trigger Event during the calendar year and the annual average of the sum of insurer deductibles for all insurers for the prior 3 years, to be calculated by taking:
(i) The total amount of direct earned premium reported by insurers to Treasury pursuant to § 50.51 in the three calendar years prior to the calendar year in question, and then dividing that figure by three; and
(ii) Multiplying the resulting three-year average figure by 20%.
(3) For calendar year 2020 and each subsequent calendar year, Treasury shall publish in the
Federal Register
the insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount no later than December 31 of the prior calendar year.
(n)
Insured loss.
(1) The term insured loss means any loss resulting from an act of terrorism (including an act of war, in the case of workers' compensation) that is covered by primary or excess property and casualty insurance issued by an insurer if the loss:
(i) Occurs within the United States;
(ii) Occurs to an air carrier (as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102), or to a United States flag vessel (or a vessel based principally in the United States, on which United States income tax is paid and whose insurance coverage is subject to regulation in the United States), regardless of where the loss occurs; however, to the extent a loss occurs to such an air carrier or vessel outside the United States, the insured loss does not include losses covered by
third party insurance contracts that are separate from the insurance coverage provided to the air carrier or vessel; or
(iii) Occurs at the premises of any United States mission.
(2) The term insured loss includes reasonable loss adjustment expenses, incurred by an insurer in connection with insured losses, that are allocated and identified by claim file in insurer records, including expenses incurred in the investigation, adjustment, and defense of claims, but excluding staff salaries, overhead, and other insurer expenses that would have been incurred notwithstanding the insured loss.
(3) The term insured loss does not include:
(i) Punitive or exemplary damages awarded or paid in connection with the Federal cause of action specified in section 107(a)(1) of the Act. The term “punitive or exemplary damages” means damages that are not compensatory but are an award of money made to a claimant solely to punish or deter; or
(ii) Extra-contractual damages awarded against, or paid by, an insurer; or
(iii) Payments by an insurer in excess of policy limits; or
(iv) Amounts paid by a policyholder as required under the terms and conditions of property and casualty insurance issued by an insurer.
(o)
Insurer
means any entity, including any affiliate of the entity, that meets the following requirements:
(1)(i) The entity must fall within at least one of the following categories:
(A) It is licensed or admitted to engage in the business of providing primary or excess insurance in any state (including, but not limited to, state licensed captive insurance companies, state licensed or admitted risk retention groups, and state licensed or admitted farm and county mutuals) and, if a joint underwriting association, pooling arrangement, or other similar entity, then the entity must:
(
1
) Have gone through a process of being licensed or admitted to engage in the business of providing primary or excess insurance that is administered by the state's insurance regulator, which process generally applies to insurance companies or is similar in scope and content to the process applicable to insurance companies;
(
2
) Be generally subject to State insurance regulation, including financial reporting requirements, applicable to insurance companies within the State; and
(
3
) Be managed independently from other insurers participating in the program;
(B) It is not licensed or admitted to engage in the business of providing primary or excess insurance in any state, but is an eligible surplus line carrier listed on the NAIC Quarterly Listing of Alien Insurers;
(C) It is approved or accepted for the purpose of offering property and casualty insurance by a Federal agency in connection with maritime, energy, or aviation activity, but only to the extent of such Federal approval of property and casualty insurance coverage offered by the insurer in connection with maritime, energy, or aviation activity;
(D) It is a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund; or
(E) As determined by the Secretary, it falls within any of the classes or types of captive insurers or other self-insurance arrangements by municipalities and other entities.
(ii) If an entity falls within more than one category described in paragraph (o)(1)(i) of this section, the entity is considered to fall within the first category within which it falls for purposes of the program.
(2) The entity must receive direct earned premium, except in the case of:
(i) State residual market insurance entities and state workers' compensation funds, to the extent provided in subpart D of this part; and
(ii) Other classes or types of captive insurers and other self-insurance arrangements by municipalities and other entities to the extent provided for in subpart E of this part.
(3) The entity must meet any other criteria as prescribed by Treasury.
(p)
Insurer deductible
means:
(1) For an insurer that has had a full year of operations during the calendar year immediately preceding the applicable calendar year, the value of an insurer's direct earned premiums during
the immediately preceding calendar year, multiplied by 20 percent; and
(2) For an insurer that has not had a full year of operations during the immediately preceding calendar year, the insurer deductible will be based on data for direct earned premiums for the applicable calendar year multiplied by 20 percent. If the insurer does not have a full year of operations during the applicable calendar year, the direct earned premiums for the applicable calendar year will be annualized to determine the insurer deductible.
(q)
Mandatory recoupment amount
means the difference between the insurance marketplace aggregate retention amount for a calendar year and the uncompensated insured losses during such calendar year.
(r)
NAIC
means the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
(s)
Person
means any individual, business or nonprofit entity (including those organized in the form of a partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or association), trust or estate, or a State or political subdivision of a state or other governmental unit.
(t)
Professional liability insurance
means insurance coverage for liability arising out of the performance of professional or business duties related to a specific occupation, with coverage being tailored to the needs of the specific occupation. Examples include abstracters, accountants, insurance adjusters, architects, engineers, insurance agents and brokers, lawyers, real estate agents, stockbrokers, and veterinarians. For purposes of this definition, professional liability insurance does not include directors and officers liability insurance.
(u)
Program
means the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program established by the Act.
(v)
Program Trigger Event
means a certified act of terrorism within a calendar year that results in aggregate industry insured losses, either on its own or in combination with any other certified act(s) of terrorism having previously taken place in the same calendar year, exceeding:
(1) $100,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2015 insured losses;
(2) $120,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2016 insured losses;
(3) $140,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2017 insured losses;
(4) $160,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2018 insured losses;
(5) $180,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2019 insured losses; or
(6) $200,000,000 with respect to calendar year 2020 insured losses and with respect to any calendar year thereafter.
(w)
Property and casualty insurance
means commercial lines of property and casualty insurance, including excess insurance, workers' compensation insurance, and directors and officers liability insurance, and:
(1) Means commercial lines within only the following lines of insurance from the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14): Line 1—Fire; Line 2.1—Allied Lines; Line 5.1—Commercial Multiple Peril (non-liability portion); Line 5.2—Commercial Multiple Peril (liability portion); Line 8—Ocean Marine; Line 9—Inland Marine; Line 16—Workers' Compensation; Line 17—Other Liability; Line 18—Products Liability; Line 22—Aircraft (all perils); and Line 27—Boiler and Machinery; a stand-alone cyber liability policy falling within Line 17—Other Liability, is property and casualty insurance, so long as it is not otherwise identified for state reporting purposes as a policy that is not property and casualty insurance, such as professional liability insurance.
(2) Property and casualty insurance does not include:
(i) Federal crop insurance issued or reinsured under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501
et seq.
), or any other type of crop or livestock insurance that is privately issued or reinsured (including crop insurance reported under either Line 2.1—Allied Lines or Line 2.2—Multiple Peril (Crop) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(ii) Private mortgage insurance (as defined in section 2 of the Homeowners Protection Act of 1998) (12 U.S.C. 4901) or title insurance;
(iii) Financial guaranty insurance issued by monoline financial guaranty insurance corporations;
(iv) Insurance for medical malpractice;
(v) Health or life insurance, including group life insurance;
(vi) Flood insurance provided under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001
et seq.
) or earthquake insurance reported under Line 12 of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(vii) Reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance;
(viii) Commercial automobile insurance, including insurance reported under Lines 19.3 (Commercial Auto No-Fault (personal injury protection)), 19.4 (Other Commercial Auto Liability) and 21.2 (Commercial Auto Physical Damage) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(ix) Burglary and theft insurance, including insurance reported under Line 26 (Burglary and Theft) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(x) Surety insurance, including insurance reported under Line 24 (Surety) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14);
(xi) Professional liability insurance as defined in paragraph (t) of this section; or
(xii) Farm owners multiple peril insurance, including insurance reported under Line 3 (Farmowners Multiple Peril) of the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses (commonly known as Statutory Page 14).
(x)
Reciprocal insurer
means an insurer organized under relevant state law as a reciprocal or interinsurance exchange.
(y)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(z)
Small insurer
means an insurer (or an affiliated group of insurers in the case of affiliates within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section) whose policyholder surplus for the immediately preceding year (as reported on its Annual Statement for state regulatory purposes at Page 3, Line 37, Column 1, or as calculated in similar fashion by participating insurers that do not file an Annual Statement) is less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year and whose direct earned premium for the preceding year is also less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year. An insurer that has not had a full year of operations during the immediately preceding calendar year is a small insurer if its policyholder surplus in the current year is less than five times the Program Trigger amount for the current year. A captive insurer is not a small insurer, regardless of the size of its policyholder surplus or direct earned premium.
(aa)
State
means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, each of the United States Virgin Islands, and any territory or possession of the United States.
(bb)
Surcharge
means the Federal terrorism policy surcharge as defined in paragraph (l) of this section.
(cc)
Surcharge effective date
means the date established by Treasury that begins the assessment period.
(dd)
Treasury
means the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
(ee)
Uncompensated insured losses
means the aggregate amount of insured losses of all insurers in a calendar year, once there has been a Program Trigger Event, that is not compensated by the Federal Government because such losses:
(1) Are within the insurer deductibles of insurers, or
(2) Are within the portions of losses in excess of insurer deductibles that are not compensated through payments made as a result of claims for the Federal share of compensation.
(ff)
United States
means the several states, and includes the territorial sea and the continental shelf of the United States, as those terms are defined in the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (18 U.S.C. 2280 and 2281).
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 62452, Nov. 15, 2019; 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.5
Rule of construction for dates.
Unless otherwise expressly provided in the regulation, any date in these regulations is intended to be applied so
that the day begins at 12:01 a.m. and ends at midnight on that date.
§ 50.6
Special rules for Interim Guidance safe harbors.
(a) An insurer will be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of the Act to the extent the insurer reasonably relied on Interim Guidance prior to the effective date of applicable regulations.
(b) For purposes of this section, any Interim Guidance will be posted by Treasury at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.7
Procedure for requesting determinations of controlling influence.
(a) An insurer or insurers not having control over another insurer under § 50.4(c)(2)(i) or (ii) may make a written submission to Treasury to rebut a presumption of controlling influence under § 50.4(c)(4)(i) through (iv) or otherwise to request a determination of controlling influence. Such submissions shall be made to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office, Department of the Treasury, Room 1410, 1500 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20220. The submission should be entitled, “Controlling Influence Submission,” and should provide the full name and address of the submitting insurer(s) and the name, title, address and telephone number of the designated contact person(s) for such insurer(s).
(b) Treasury will review submissions and determine whether Treasury needs additional written or orally presented information. In its discretion, Treasury may schedule a date, time, and place for an oral presentation by the insurer(s).
(c) An insurer or insurers must provide all relevant facts and circumstances concerning the relationship(s) between or among the affected insurers and the control factors in § 50.4(c)(4)(i) through (iv); and must explain in detail any basis for why the insurer believes that no controlling influence exists (if a presumption is being rebutted) in light of the particular facts and circumstances, as well as the Act's language, structure and purpose. Any confidential business or trade secret information submitted to Treasury should be clearly marked. Treasury will handle any subsequent request for information designated by an insurer as confidential business or trade secret information in accordance with Treasury's Freedom of Information Act regulations at 31 CFR part 1.
(d) Treasury will review and consider the insurer submission and other relevant facts and circumstances. Unless otherwise extended by Treasury, within 60 days after receipt of a complete submission, including any additional information requested by Treasury, and including any oral presentation, Treasury will issue a final determination of whether one insurer has a controlling influence over another insurer for purposes of the Program. The determination shall set forth Treasury's basis for its determination.
(Approved by the Office of Management
Budget under control number 1505-0190)
§ 50.8
Procedure for requesting general interpretations of statute.
Persons actually or potentially affected by the Act or regulations in this Part may request an interpretation of the Act or regulations by writing to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office, Room 1410, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20220, giving a detailed explanation of the facts and circumstances and the reason why an interpretation is needed. A requester should segregate and mark any confidential business or trade secret information clearly. Treasury in its discretion will provide written responses to requests for interpretation. Treasury reserves the right to decline to provide a response in any case. Except in the case of any confidential business or trade secret information, Treasury will make written requests for interpretations and responses publicly available at the Treasury Department Library, on the Treasury Web site, or through other means as soon as practicable after the response has been provided. Treasury will handle any subsequent request for information that had been
designated by a requester as confidential business or trade secret information in accordance with Treasury's Freedom of Information Act regulations at 31 CFR part 1.

# Subpart B—Disclosures as Conditions for Federal Payment
§ 50.10
General disclosure requirements.
(a)
Content of disclosure.
As a condition for Federal payments under section 103(b) of the Act, the Act requires that an insurer provide clear and conspicuous disclosure to the policyholder of:
(1) The premium charged for insured losses covered by the Program; and
(2) The Federal share of compensation for insured losses under the Program.
(b)
Form and timing of disclosure.
The disclosure required by the Act must be made on a separate line item in the policy, at the time of offer and of renewal of the policy.
§ 50.11
Definition.
For purposes of this Subpart, unless the context indicates otherwise, the term “disclosure” or “disclosures” refers to the disclosure described in section 103(b)(2) of the Act and § 50.10. The term “cap disclosure” refers to the disclosure required by section 103(b)(3) of the Act and § 50.15.
§ 50.12
Clear and conspicuous disclosure.
(a)
General.
Whether a disclosure is clear and conspicuous depends on the totality of the facts and circumstances of the disclosure. See § 50.16 for model forms.
(b)
Description of premium.
An insurer may describe the premium charged for insured losses covered by the Program as a portion or percentage of a policy premium, if consistent with standard business practice and provided that the amount of policy premium or the method of determining the policy premium is also stated. An insurer may not describe the premium in a manner that is misleading in the context of the Program, such as by characterizing the premium as a “surcharge.”
(c)
Method of disclosure.
Subject to § 50.10(b), an insurer may provide disclosures using normal business practices, including forms and methods of communication used to communicate similar policyholder information to policyholders.
(d)
Use of producer.
If an insurer normally communicates with a policyholder through an insurance producer or other intermediary, an insurer may provide disclosures through such producer or other intermediary. If an insurer elects to make the disclosures through an insurance producer or other intermediary, the insurer remains responsible for ensuring that the disclosures are provided by the insurance producer or other intermediary to policyholders in accordance with the Act.
(e)
Demonstration of compliance.
An insurer may demonstrate that it has satisfied the requirement to provide clear and conspicuous disclosure as described in § 50.10 through use of appropriate systems and normal business practices that demonstrate a practice of compliance.
(f)
Certification of compliance.
An insurer must certify that it has complied with the requirement to provide disclosure to the policyholder on all policies that form the basis for any claim that is submitted by an insurer for Federal payment under the Program.
§ 50.13
Offer and renewal.
An insurer is deemed to be in compliance with the requirement of providing disclosure “at the time of offer and of renewal of the policy” under § 50.10(b) if the insurer makes the disclosure no later than the time the insurer first formally offers to provide insurance coverage or renew a policy for a current policyholder.
§ 50.14
Separate line item.
An insurer is deemed to be in compliance with the requirement of providing disclosure on a “separate line item in the policy” under § 50.10(b) if the insurer makes the disclosure:
(a) On the declarations page of the policy;
(b) Elsewhere within the policy itself; or
(c) In any rider or endorsement, or other document that is made a part of the policy.
§ 50.15
Cap disclosure.
(a)
General.
Under section 103(e)(2) of the Act, if the aggregate insured losses exceed $100,000,000,000 during any calendar year, the Secretary shall not make any payment for any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000, and no insurer that has met its insurer deductible shall be liable for the payment of any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000.
(b)
Other requirements.
As a condition for Federal payments under section 103(b) of the Act, an insurer must provide clear and conspicuous disclosure to the policyholder of the existence of the $100,000,000,000 cap under section 103(e)(2). The cap disclosure must be made at the time of offer, purchase, and renewal of the policy.
(c)
Offer, purchase, and renewal.
An insurer is deemed to be in compliance with the requirement of providing disclosure “at the time of offer, purchase, and renewal of the policy” under § 50.15(b) if the insurer:
(1) Makes the disclosure no later than the time the insurer first formally offers to provide insurance coverage or renew a policy for a current policyholder; and
(2) If terrorism risk coverage is purchased, the insurer makes clear and conspicuous reference back to that disclosure, as well as the final terms of terrorism insurance coverage, at the time the transaction is completed.
(d)
Other applicable rules.
The cap disclosure is covered by the rules in § 50.12(a), (c), (d), (e), and (f) (relating to clear and conspicuous disclosure).
§ 50.16
Use of model forms.
(a)
General.
An insurer that is required to make the disclosure under § 50.10(b) or § 50.15(b) is deemed to be in compliance with the disclosure requirements if the insurer uses NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 or NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2, as appropriate.
(b)
Not exclusive means of compliance.
An insurer is not required to use NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 or NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2 to satisfy the disclosure requirements. An insurer may use other means to comply with the disclosure requirements, as long as the disclosures comport with the requirements of the Act.
(c)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, references to NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 1 and NAIC Model Disclosure Form No. 2 refer to such forms as revised in March 2020, or as subsequently modified by the NAIC, provided Treasury has stated that usage by insurers of the subsequently modified forms is deemed to satisfy the disclosure requirements of the Act and the insurer uses the most current forms, so approved by Treasury, that are available at the time of disclosure. These forms may be found on the Treasury website at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.17
General disclosure requirements for State residual market insurance entities and State workers' compensation funds.
(a)
Residual market mechanism disclosure.
A state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund may provide the disclosures required by this subpart B to policyholders using normal business practices, including forms and methods of communication used to communicate similar information to policyholders. The disclosures may be made by the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund itself, the individual insurers that participate in the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund, or its servicing carriers. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the disclosure requirements have been met rests with the insurer filing a claim under the Program.
(b)
Other requirements.
Except as provided in this section, all other disclosure requirements set out in this subpart B apply to state residual insurance market entities and state workers' compensation funds.

# Subpart C—Mandatory Availability
§ 50.20
General mandatory availability requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
Under section 103(c) of the Act, an insurer must:
(1) Make available, in all of its property and casualty insurance policies, coverage for insured losses; and
(2) Make available property and casualty insurance coverage for insured losses that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism.
(b)
Compliance through 2027.
Under section 108(a) of the Act, an insurer must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section through calendar year 2027.
(c)
Beyond 2027.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section and § 50.22(a), property and casualty insurance coverage for insured losses does not have to be made available beyond December 31, 2027, even if the policy period of insurance coverage for losses from events other than acts of terrorism extends beyond that date.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.21
Make available.
(a)
General.
The requirement to make available coverage as provided in § 50.20 applies at the time an insurer makes the initial offer of coverage as well as at the time an insurer makes an initial offer of renewal of an existing policy.
(b)
Offer consistent with definition of act of terrorism.
An insurer must make available coverage for insured losses in a policy of property and casualty insurance consistent with the definition of an act of terrorism as defined in § 50.4(b).
(c)
Changes negotiated subsequent to initial offer.
If an insurer satisfies the requirement to make available coverage as described in § 50.20 by first making an offer with coverage for insured losses that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism, which the policyholder or prospective policyholder declines, the insurer may negotiate with the policyholder or prospective policyholder an option of partial coverage for insured losses at a lower amount of coverage if permitted by any applicable state law. An insurer is not required by the Act to offer partial coverage if the policyholder or prospective policyholder declines full coverage. See § 50.23.
(d)
Demonstrations of compliance.
If an insurer makes an offer of insurance but no contract of insurance is concluded, the insurer may demonstrate that it has satisfied the requirement to make available coverage as described in § 50.20 through use of appropriate systems and normal business practices that demonstrate a practice of compliance.
§ 50.22
No material difference from other coverage.
(a)
Terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations.
As provided in § 50.20(a)(2), an insurer must offer coverage for insured losses arising from an act of terrorism that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations (including deductibles) applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism. For purposes of this requirement, “terms” excludes price.
(b)
Limitations on types of risk.
An insurer is not required to cover risks that it typically excludes or does not write to satisfy the requirement to make available coverage for losses resulting from an act of terrorism that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism. For example, if an insurer does not cover all types of risks, either because the insurer is outside of direct state regulatory oversight, or because a state permits certain exclusions for certain types of losses, such as nuclear, biological, or chemical events, then the insurer is not required to make such coverage available.
§ 50.23
Applicability of State law requirements.
(a)
General.
After satisfying the requirement to make available coverage
for insured losses that does not differ materially from the terms, amounts, and other coverage limitations applicable to losses arising from events other than acts of terrorism, if coverage is rejected an insurer may then offer coverage that is on different terms, amounts, or coverage limitations, as long as such an offer does not violate any applicable state law requirements.
(b)
Examples.
(1) If an insurer subject to state regulation first makes available coverage in accordance with § 50.20 and the state has a requirement that an insurer offer full coverage without any exclusion, then the requirement would continue to apply and the insurer may not subsequently offer less than full coverage or coverage with exclusions.
(2) If an insurer subject to state regulation first makes available coverage in accordance with § 50.20 and the state permits certain exclusions or allows for other limitations, or an insurance policy is not governed by state law requirements, then the insurer may subsequently offer limited coverage or coverage with exclusions.

# Subpart D—State Residual Market Insurance Entities; State Workers' Compensation Funds
§ 50.30
General participation requirements.
(a)
Insurers.
As defined in § 50.4(o), all state residual market insurance entities and state workers' compensation funds are insurers under the Program even if such entities do not receive direct earned premiums.
(b)
Mandatory participation.
State residual market insurance entities and State workers' compensation funds are mandatory participants in the Program subject to the rules issued in this Subpart.
(c)
Identification.
Treasury maintains a list of state residual market insurance entities and state workers' compensation funds at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
Procedures for providing comments and updates to that list are posted with the list.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.31
Entities that do not share profits and losses with private sector insurers.
(a)
Treatment.
A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund that does not share profits and losses with a private sector insurer is deemed to be a separate insurer under the Program.
(b)
Premium calculation.
A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund that is deemed to be a separate insurer should follow the guidelines specified in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2) for the purposes of calculating the appropriate measure of direct earned premium.
§ 50.32
Entities that share profits and losses with private sector insurers.
(a)
Treatment.
A State residual market insurance entity or a State workers' compensation fund that shares profits and losses with a private sector insurer is deemed not to be a separate insurer under the Program.
(b)
Premium and loss calculation.
A state residual market insurance entity or a State workers' compensation fund that is deemed not to be a separate insurer should continue to report, in accordance with normal business practices, to each participant insurer its share of premium income and insured losses, which shall then be included respectively in the participant insurer's direct earned premium or insured loss calculations.
§ 50.33
Allocation of premium income associated with entities that do share profits and losses with private sector insurers.
(a)
Servicing carriers.
For purposes of this subpart, a servicing carrier is an insurer that enters into an agreement to place and service insurance contracts for a state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund and to cede premiums associated with such insurance contracts to the State residual market insurance entity or State workers' compensation fund. Premiums written by a
servicing carrier on behalf of a state residual market insurance entity or State workers' compensation fund that are ceded to such an entity or fund shall not be included as direct earned premium (as described in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2)) of the servicing carrier.
(b)
Participant insurers.
For purposes of this Subpart, a participant insurer is an insurer that shares in the profits and losses of a state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund. Premium income that is distributed to or assumed by participant insurers in a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund (whether directly or as quota share insurers of risks written by servicing carriers), shall be included in direct earned premium (as described in § 50.4(h)(1) or (2)) of the participant insurer.
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Data Collection
§ 50.50
General.
Treasury may request from insurers such data and information as may be reasonably required in support of Treasury's administration of the Program.
§ 50.51
Annual data reporting.
(a)
General.
No later than May 15 of each calendar year, all insurers shall provide specified data and information respecting their Program participation.
(b)
Scope.
Except as otherwise provided by Treasury, the information to be provided shall address: the lines of property and casualty insurance subject to the Program, the premiums earned for terrorism risk insurance within those lines and for those lines generally, the geographical location of exposures covered under terrorism risk insurance, the pricing of terrorism risk insurance, the take-up rate for terrorism risk insurance, the amount of private reinsurance obtained by participating insurers in connection with such policies, and other matters concerning the Program as may be identified by Treasury.
(c)
Method of reporting.
(1) Treasury will promulgate forms defining the specific data and information that each insurer must submit and make these forms available on its Web site. Treasury may adopt different data reporting forms for different types of insurers that participate in the Program, which modify the requested information by each different category of participating insurer based upon the manner and scope of the participation of those insurers in the Program. Each insurer shall submit the required data and information by electronic submission through the forms and data portal(s) identified on Treasury's Web site. All data and information provided as part of such electronic submission shall be certified by the insurer as a full and true statement of the information provided to the best of its knowledge, information and belief.
(2) The data and information required to be provided under this subsection may be modified annually by Treasury. Any modification shall be made during the prior calendar year, and Treasury shall provide insurers at least 90 days before requiring collection of any newly specified data or information.
(d)
Supplemental requests.
Treasury may issue supplemental requests, to some or all participating insurers, in connection with the annual data request provided for under this section, to the extent Treasury determines that it requires additional or clarifying information in order to analyze the effectiveness of the Program. Insurers shall respond to any such supplemental requests as may be made within the timeframe and in the manner specified by Treasury.
(e)
Small insurer exception.
The Secretary may exempt a small insurer that meets the definition in § 50.4(z) from any or all data calls under this section, or may modify the requests as applicable to such small insurer.
§ 50.52
Small insurer data.
(a)
General.
The Secretary may collect information relating to small insurers, as defined in § 50.4(z), in order to conduct a study of small insurers participating in the Program, and identify any competitive challenges small insurers face in the terrorism risk insurance marketplace.
(b)
Scope.
Information collected concerning small insurers may include information necessary for Treasury to identify:
(1) Changes to the market share, premium volume, and policyholder surplus of small insurers relative to large insurers;
(2) How the property and casualty insurance market for terrorism risk differs between small and large insurers, and whether such a difference exists within other perils;
(3) The impact on small insurers of the Program's mandatory availability requirement under section 103(c) of the Act;
(4) The effect on small insurers of increasing the trigger amount for the Program under section 103(e)(1)(B) of the Act;
(5) The availability and cost of private reinsurance for small insurers; and
(6) The impact that state workers compensation laws have on small insurers and workers compensation carriers in the terrorism risk insurance marketplace.
§ 50.53
Collection of claims data.
(a)
General.
Subsequent to any certification by the Secretary of an act of terrorism, insurers shall report to Treasury information respecting insured losses arising from the act of terrorism.
(b)
Contents of periodic reporting.
Reporting under this subsection shall be by a form prescribed by Treasury and made available on the Treasury Web site, which provides basic information about each claim established by an insurer that involves or potentially involves an insured loss. Information to be reported for any claims by or against a policyholder shall identify paid and reserved amounts associated with the claim. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the form required by this subsection shall be submitted by a single insurer designated within the affiliated group, which shall report on a consolidated basis. Data and information reported under this subsection will include:
(1) A listing of each claim by name of insured, catastrophe code, line of business, and in the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the particular insurer or insurers within the group associated with each claim;
(2) Amounts paid, both loss and loss adjustment expenses, in connection with the claim as of the effective date of the report; and
(3) Amounts reserved, both loss and loss adjustment expenses, in connection with the claim as of the effective date of the report.
(c)
Timing of reporting.
To the extent that an insurer has established one or more claims that it believes involve insured losses arising from an act of terrorism, the insurer shall submit its first report within 60 days of establishing the first of such claims. An updated report shall be submitted each month thereafter, reporting data as of the prior month, until all claims arising from the act of terrorism have been resolved.
(d)
Interrelationship with other reporting requirements.
The reporting requirements under this subsection are independent of the Initial Notice of Deductible Erosion, Initial Certification of Loss, and Supplementary Certifications of Loss requirements in subpart H.
(e)
Other sources of information.
Subsequent to any certification of an act of terrorism, Treasury may also seek information respecting loss estimates and projections from one or more organizations that are not participants in the Program, such as state insurance regulators, insurance modeling organizations, rating agencies, insurance brokers and producers, and insurance data aggregators. A data request may also be directed to insurers identified in connection with such inquiries. An insurer subject to such a data call shall respond to this request within the time frame specified in the request.
§ 50.54
Handling of data.
(a)
General.
All nonpublic information submitted to the Secretary under subparts F and G of this part shall be considered proprietary information and shall:
(1) Be handled and stored by Treasury in an appropriately secure manner;
(2) Be considered, where appropriate, to be trade secrets or commercial or financial information obtained from a
person and privileged or confidential; and
(3) Not be publicly released in any unaggregated form in which a consumer, policyholder, or insurer is identifiable.
(b)
Use of insurance statistical aggregator.
To the extent Treasury utilizes an insurance statistical aggregator in connection with any data collection under subparts F and G, such insurance statistical aggregator shall keep any nonpublic information that it collects confidential, consistent with the requirements of this section.
(c)
Confidentiality.
(1) The submission of any non-publicly available data and information to the Secretary under subparts F and G of this part, and the sharing of any non-publicly available data with or by the Secretary among other Federal agencies, the state insurance regulatory authorities, or any other entities shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege or immunity arising under Federal or state law (including the rules of any Federal or state court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject.
(2) Any requirement under Federal or state law to the extent otherwise applicable, or any requirement pursuant to a written agreement in effect between the original source of any non-publicly available data or information and the source of such data or information to the Secretary, regarding privacy or confidentiality of any data or information in the possession of the source to the Secretary, shall continue to apply to such data or information after the data or information has been provided pursuant to this subpart.
(3) Any data or information obtained by the Secretary under subparts F or G of this part may be made available to state insurance regulatory authorities, individually or collectively through an information-sharing agreement that:
(i) Shall comply with applicable Federal law; and
(ii) Shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege or immunity under Federal or state law (including any privilege referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the rules of any Federal or State court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject.
(4) Section 552 of title 5, United States Code, including any exceptions thereunder, shall apply to any data or information submitted under this Subpart by an insurer or affiliate of an insurer.

# Subpart G—Certification
§ 50.60
Certification.
(a)
Certification decision.
The Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Homeland Security, is responsible for determining whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.
(b)
Timeline for eligibility.
An act is eligible for certification as an act of terrorism at the end of the following timeline:
(1) The Secretary commences review of whether an act satisfies the definition in § 50.4(b);
(2) Within 30 days of the Secretary commencing review, Treasury publishes the notice required by § 50.61(a). During such review, the schedule of public notifications in § 50.61(b) shall apply, as appropriate;
(3) The Secretary's review finds that the act satisfies the elements for certification under § 50.4(b)(1)(i) through (iv), and that it is not otherwise precluded from certification by § 50.4(b)(2); and
(4) Within 30 days or as soon as otherwise practicable after the review identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section concludes that the act satisfies the necessary criteria, the Secretary consults with the Attorney General of the United States and the Secretary of Homeland Security pursuant to section 102(1)(A) of the Act.
(c)
Other consultation.
Nothing in this section shall prevent the Secretary from consulting and coordinating with the Attorney General of the United States, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or any other government official prior to the consultation identified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(d)
Finality.
Any decision by the Secretary to certify, or determination not to certify, an act as an act of terrorism under this subpart shall be final, and shall not be subject to judicial review.
(e)
Nondelegation.
The Secretary may not delegate or designate to any other officer, employee, or person, the determination of whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.
§ 50.61
Public communication.
(a)
Initial notification.
After the Secretary commences review of whether an act may satisfy the definition in § 50.4(b), Treasury shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
within 30 days of the Secretary commencing review notifying the public that the act is under review for certification as an act of terrorism. Treasury may also announce that an act is not under review for certification.
(b)
Update notification.
Not later than 30 days following the publication of a notice under paragraph (a) of this section that an act is under review for certification, and not later than every 60 days thereafter until the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register
notifying the public whether the act is still under review for certification as an act of terrorism.
(c)
Contents of notification.
Nothing in this section shall require Treasury to provide any information other than whether the act is under review for certification as an act of terrorism (or is no longer under such review) or shall limit Treasury from providing further information of relevance.
(d)
Rules of construction.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the Secretary from certifying or determining not to certify an act as an act of terrorism before notifying the public that the act is under review for certification. If, in the discretion of the Secretary, circumstances relating to an act render timely notification under this section by Treasury impracticable, Treasury shall provide the notification as soon as practicable, in a manner the Secretary determines is appropriate.
(e)
Nonbinding decision.
A notification made under this section shall not be construed to be a final determination by the Secretary of whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism.
§ 50.62
Certification data collection.
(a)
General.
(1) The Secretary, when evaluating an act for certification as an act of terrorism, may at any time direct one or more insurers to submit information regarding projected and actual losses in connection with an act and any other information the Secretary determines appropriate. The information sought by the Secretary shall be specified in the data request, and any insurer subject to the data request shall respond to the request within the time frame specified by the Secretary at the time of the request. The data requested may include actual loss reserves established by insurers in connection with the act under consideration, loss estimates generated by insurers in connection with the act under consideration which have not yet been established as actual loss reserves, and information respecting an insurer's property and casualty exposures in a particular geographic area associated with the act under consideration.
(2) An insurer not required by Treasury to submit information under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may voluntarily submit information to the Secretary as specified in public notifications issued by Treasury.
(b)
Other sources of information.
The Secretary may request information with respect to loss estimates and likely affected insurers from organizations, including state insurance regulators, insurance modeling organizations, rating agencies, insurance brokers and producers, and insurance data aggregators.
§ 50.63
Notification of certification determination.
(a)
Public notification.
Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall publish a statement and submit a notice to the
Federal Register
notifying the public of the Secretary's decision.
(b)
Insurance supervisor notification.
Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall notify in writing any relevant supervisory officials of the Secretary's decision.
(c)
Congressional notification.
Not later than 5 business days after the Secretary determines whether to certify an act as an act of terrorism, Treasury shall notify in writing the President of the U.S. Senate and the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives of the Secretary's decision.
(d)
Rule of construction.
If, in the discretion of the Secretary, circumstances relating to an act render timely notification by Treasury under this section impracticable, Treasury shall provide the notification as soon as practicable, in a manner the Secretary determines is appropriate.

# Subpart H—Claims Procedures
§ 50.70
Federal share of compensation.
(a)
General.
(1) Treasury will pay the Federal share of compensation for insured losses as provided in section 103 of the Act once a Certification of Loss required by § 50.73 is deemed sufficient. The Federal share of compensation under the Program shall be:
(i) 85 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2015;
(ii) 84 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2016;
(iii) 83 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2017;
(iv) 82 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2018;
(v) 81 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2019; and
(vi) 80 percent of that portion of the insurer's aggregate insured losses that exceeds its insurer deductible during calendar year 2020 and any calendar year thereafter.
(2) The percentages in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are subject to any adjustments described in § 50.71 and to the cap of $100 billion as provided in section 103(e)(2) of the Act.
(b)
Program Trigger amounts.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section or anything in this subpart to the contrary, Federal compensation will not be paid by Treasury unless the aggregate industry insured losses resulting from one or more certified acts of terrorism exceed the following amounts:
(1) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2015: $100 million;
(2) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2016: $120 million;
(3) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2017: $140 million;
(4) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2018: $160 million;
(5) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2019: $180 million;
(6) For insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism taking place in calendar year 2020 and any calendar year thereafter: $200 million.
(c)
Conditions for payment of Federal share.
Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, Treasury shall pay the appropriate amount of the Federal share of compensation for an insured loss to an insurer upon a determination that:
(1) The insurer is an entity, including an affiliate thereof, that meets the requirements of § 50.4(o);
(2) The insurer's insured losses, as defined in § 50.4(n) and limited by paragraph (d) of this section (including the allocated dollar value of the insurer's proportionate share of insured losses from a state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund as described in § 50.33), have exceeded its insurer deductible as defined in § 50.4(p);
(3) The insurer has paid or is prepared to pay an insured loss, based on a filed claim for the insured loss;
(4) Neither the insurer's claim for Federal payment nor any underlying claim for an insured loss is fraudulent, collusive, made in bad faith, dishonest or otherwise designed to circumvent the purposes of the Act and regulations;
(5) The insurer has provided a clear and conspicuous disclosure as required
by §§ 50.10 through 50.14 and a cap disclosure as required by § 50.15;
(6) The insurer offered coverage for insured losses and the offer was accepted by the insured prior to the act which results in the insured loss;
(7) The insurer took all steps reasonably necessary to properly and carefully investigate the insured loss and otherwise processed the insured loss using practices appropriate for the business of insurance;
(8) The insured loss is within the scope of coverage issued by the insurer under the terms and conditions of one or more policies for commercial property and casualty insurance as defined in § 50.4(w); and
(9) The procedures specified in this Subpart have been followed and all conditions for payment have been met.
(d)
Adjustments.
Treasury may subsequently adjust, including requiring repayment of, any payment made under paragraph (c) of this section in accordance with its authority under the Act.
(e)
Suspension of payment for other insured losses.
Upon a determination by Treasury that an insurer has failed to meet any of the requirements for payment specified in paragraph (c) of this section for a particular insured loss, Treasury may suspend payment of the Federal share of compensation for all other insured losses of the insurer pending investigation and audit of the insurer's insured losses.
(f)
Aggregate industry losses.
Treasury will determine the amount of aggregate industry insured losses resulting from a certified act of terrorism. If aggregate industry insured losses in a calendar year resulting from one or more certified acts of terrorism exceed the applicable Program Trigger amounts specified in paragraph (b) of this section, Treasury will publish a document in the
Federal Register
of a Program Trigger Event.
§ 50.71
Adjustments to the Federal share of compensation.
(a)
Aggregate amount of insured losses.
The aggregate amount of insured losses of an insurer in a calendar year used to calculate the Federal share of compensation shall be reduced by any amounts recovered by the insurer as salvage or subrogation for its insured losses in the calendar year.
(b)
Amount of Federal share of compensation.
The Federal share of compensation shall be adjusted as follows:
(1)
No excess recoveries.
For any calendar year, the sum of the Federal share of compensation paid by Treasury to an insurer and the insurer's recoveries for insured losses from other sources shall not be greater than the insurer's aggregate amount of insured losses for acts of terrorism in that calendar year. Amounts recovered for insured losses in excess of an insurer's aggregate amount of insured losses for acts of terrorism in a calendar year shall be repaid to Treasury within 45 days after the end of the month in which total recoveries of the insurer, from all sources, become excess. For purposes of this paragraph, amounts recovered from a reinsurer pursuant to an agreement whereby the reinsurer's right to any excess recovery has priority over the rights of Treasury shall not be considered a recovery subject to repayment to Treasury.
(2)
Reduction of amount payable.
The Federal share of compensation for insured losses under the Program shall be reduced by the amount of other compensation provided by other Federal programs to an insured or a third party to the extent such other compensation duplicates the insurance indemnification for those insured losses.
(i)
Other Federal program compensation.
For purposes of this section, compensation provided by other Federal programs for insured losses means compensation that is provided by Federal programs established for the purpose of compensating persons for losses in the event of emergencies, disasters, acts of terrorism, or similar events. Compensation provided by Federal programs for insured losses excludes benefit or entitlement payments, such as those made under the Social Security Act, under laws administered by the Secretary of Veteran Affairs, railroad retirement benefit payments, and other similar types of benefit payments.
(ii)
Insurer due diligence.
With respect to any underlying claim for insured losses, each insurer shall inquire of all involved policyholders, insureds, and claimants whether the person receiving
insurance proceeds for an insured loss has received, expects to receive, or is entitled to receive compensation from another Federal program for the insured loss, and if so, the source and the amount of the compensation received or expected. The response, source, and such amounts shall be reported with each underlying claim on the form specified in § 50.73(b)(1).
§ 50.72
Notice of deductible erosion.
Each insurer shall submit to Treasury a Notice on a form prescribed by Treasury whenever the insurer's aggregate insured losses (including reserves for “incurred but not reported” losses) within a calendar year exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the insurer's deductible as specified in § 50.4(p). Insurers are advised that the form for the Notice of Deductible Erosion will include an initial estimate of aggregate insured losses for the calendar year, the amount of the insurer deductible, and an estimate of the Federal share of compensation for the insurer's aggregate insured losses. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the Notice will include the name and address of a single designated insurer within the affiliated group that will serve as the single point of contact for the purpose of providing loss and compliance certifications as required in § 50.73 and for receiving, disbursing, and distributing payments of the Federal share of compensation in accordance with § 50.74. An insurer, at its option, may elect to include with its Notice of Deductible Erosion the certification of direct earned premium required by § 50.73(b)(3).
§ 50.73
Loss certifications.
(a)
General.
When an insurer has paid aggregate insured losses that exceed its insurer deductible for a calendar year, the insurer may make claim upon Treasury for the payment of the Federal share of compensation for its insured losses. The insurer shall file an Initial Certification of Loss, on a form prescribed by Treasury, and thereafter such Supplementary Certifications of Loss, on a form prescribed by Treasury, as may be necessary to receive payment for the Federal share of compensation for its insured losses.
(b)
Initial certification of loss.
An insurer shall use its best efforts to file with the Program the Initial Certification of Loss within 45 days following the last calendar day of the month when an insurer has paid aggregate insured losses that exceed its insurer deductible. The Initial Certification of Loss will include the following:
(1) Basic information, on a form prescribed by Treasury, about each insured loss paid (or to be paid pursuant to § 50.73(b)(2)(i)) by the insurer. The form will include:
(i) A listing of each insured loss paid (or to be paid pursuant to § 50.73(b)(2)(i)) by the insurer by catastrophe code and line of business;
(ii) The total amount of reinsurance recovered from other sources;
(iii) A calculation of the aggregate insured losses sustained by the insurer above its insurer deductible for the calendar year; and
(iv) The amount the insurer claims as the Federal share of compensation for its aggregate insured losses.
(2) A certification that the insurer is in compliance with the provisions of section 103(b) of the Act and this part, including certifications that:
(i) The underlying insured losses reported pursuant to § 50.73(b)(1) either: Have been paid by the insurer; or will be paid by the insurer upon receipt of an advance payment of the Federal share of compensation as soon as possible, consistent with the insurer's normal business practices, but not longer than five business days after receipt of the Federal share of compensation;
(ii) The underlying claims for insured losses were filed by persons who suffered an insured loss, or by persons acting on behalf of such persons;
(iii) The underlying claims for insured losses were processed in accordance with appropriate business practices and the procedures specified in this subpart;
(iv) The insurer has complied with the disclosure requirements of §§ 50.10 through 50.14, and the cap disclosure requirement of § 50.15, for each underlying insured loss that is included in the amount of the insurer's aggregate insured losses; and
(v) The insurer has complied with the mandatory availability requirements of subpart C of this part.
(3) A certification of the amount of the insurer's direct earned premium, together with the calculation of its insurer deductible (provided this certification was not submitted previously with the Notice of Deductible Erosion).
(4) A certification that the insurer will disburse payment of the Federal share of compensation in accordance with this Subpart.
(5) A certification that if Treasury has determined a
Pro Rata
Loss Percentage (PRLP) (see § 50.112), the insurer has complied with applying the PRLP to insured loss payments, where required.
(c)
Supplementary certifications of loss.
If the total amount of the Federal share of compensation due an insurer for insured losses under the Act has not been determined at the time an Initial Certification of Loss has been filed, the insurer shall file monthly, or on a schedule otherwise determined by Treasury, Supplementary Certifications of Loss updating the amount of the Federal share of compensation due for the insurer's insured losses. Supplementary Certifications of Loss will include the following:
(1) A form as described in § 50.73(b)(1); and
(2) A certification as described in § 50.73(b)(2).
(d)
Supplementary information.
In addition to the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, Treasury may require such additional supporting documentation as required to ascertain the Federal share of compensation for the insured losses of any insurer.
(e)
State Residual Market Insurance Entities and State Workers' Compensation Funds.
A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund described in § 50.32 shall provide the Certifications of Loss described in § 50.73(b) and (c) for all of its insured losses to each participating insurer at the time it provides the allocated dollar value of the participating insurer's proportionate share of insured losses. In addition, at such time the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund shall provide the certification described in § 50.73(b)(2) to Treasury. Participating insurers shall treat the allocated dollar value of their proportionate share of insured losses from a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund as an insured loss for the purpose of their own reporting to Treasury in seeking the Federal share of compensation.
§ 50.74
Payment of Federal share of compensation.
(a)
Timing.
Treasury will promptly pay to an insurer the Federal share of compensation due the insurer for its insured losses. Payment shall be made in such installments and on such conditions as determined by the Treasury to be appropriate. Any overpayments by Treasury of the Federal share of compensation will be offset from future payments to the insurer or returned to Treasury within 45 days.
(b)
Payment process.
Payment of the Federal Share of Compensation for insured losses will be made to the insurer designated on the Notice of Deductible Erosion required by § 50.72. An insurer that requests payment of the Federal Share of Compensation for insured losses must receive payment through electronic funds transfer. The insurer must establish either an account for reimbursement as described in paragraph (c) of this section (if the insurer only seeks reimbursement) or a segregated account as described in paragraph (d) of this section (if the insurer seeks advance payments or a combination of advance payments and reimbursement). Applicable procedures will be posted at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program
or otherwise will be made publicly available.
(c)
Account for reimbursement.
An insurer shall designate an account for the receipt of reimbursement of the Federal share of compensation at an institution eligible to receive payments through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network.
(d)
Segregated account for advance payments.
An insurer that seeks advance payments of the Federal share of compensation as certified according to
§ 50.73(b)(2)(i) shall establish a segregated account into which Treasury will make advance payments as well as reimbursements to the insurer.
(1)
Definition of segregated account.
For purposes of this section, a segregated account is an interest-bearing separate account established by an insurer at a financial institution eligible to receive payments through the ACH network. Such an account is limited to the purposes of:
(i) Receiving payments of the Federal share of compensation;
(ii) Disbursing payments to insureds and claimants; and
(iii) Transferring payments to the insurer or affiliated insurers for insured losses reported as already paid.
(2)
Remittance of interest.
All interest earned on advance payments in the segregated account must be remitted at least quarterly to Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service or as otherwise prescribed in applicable procedures.
(e)
Denial or withholding of advance payment.
Treasury may deny or withhold advance payments of the Federal share of compensation to an insurer if Treasury determines that the insurer has not properly disbursed previous advances of the Federal share of compensation or otherwise has not complied with the requirements for advance payment as provided in this Subpart.
(f)
Affiliated group.
In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, Treasury will make payment of the Federal share of compensation for the insured losses of the affiliated group to the insurer designated in the Notice of Deductible Erosion to receive payment on behalf of the affiliated group. The designated insurer receiving payment from Treasury must distribute payment to affiliated insurers in a manner that ensures that each insurer in the affiliated group is compensated for its share of insured losses, taking into account a reasonable and fair allocation of the group deductible among affiliated insurers. Upon payment of the Federal share of compensation to the designated insurer, Treasury's payment obligation to the insurers in the affiliated group with respect to any insured losses covered is discharged to the extent of the payment.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.75
Determination of affiliations.
For the purposes of this subpart, an insurer's affiliates for any calendar year shall be determined by the circumstances existing on the date of the act which is the Program Trigger Event for that calendar year.
§ 50.76
Final netting.
(a)
General.
Pursuant to section 103(e)(4) of the Act, the Secretary shall have sole discretion to determine the time at which claims relating to any insured loss or act of terrorism shall become final.
(b)
Final Netting Date.
The Secretary may determine a Final Netting Date for a calendar year, which for purposes of this part is the date on or before which an insurer must report to Treasury on the insurer's Certifications of Loss (both Initial Certification of Loss and any Supplemental Certifications of Loss) all insured losses that have been reported by its policyholders for the calendar year.
(1)
Criteria for Final Netting Date.
The establishment of a Final Netting Date will be based on factors and considerations including:
(i) Amounts of case reserves reported by insurers to Treasury for open underlying insured losses;
(ii) The rate at which claims for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses are being made by insurers to Treasury;
(iii) The rate at which new underlying insured losses are being added by insurers to their Supplementary Certifications of Loss and reported;
(iv) The predominant lines of business for which underlying insured losses are being reported;
(v) Tort and contract statutes of limitations relevant to insured losses and the manner in which they are being applied by the Federal courts;
(vi) Common business practices;
(vii) Issues that are delaying final resolution of insured losses;
(viii) The application of the liability limitations and procedures under the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering
Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 441
et seq.
) that may affect final resolution of insured losses;
(ix) Issues related to the cap on annual liability for insurer losses, including whether a projection that the cap on annual liability will be reached in connection with any calendar year indicates that no Final Netting Date should be set for that calendar year;
(x) Treasury's claims administration costs; and
(xi) [Reserved]
(xii) Such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate to take into account.
(2)
Notice of Final Netting Date.
Treasury shall announce and publish in the
Federal Register
notice of a proposed Final Netting Date and its application to a specific calendar year, and will solicit comments from the public regarding the appropriateness of the proposed Final Netting Date. After receipt and evaluation of comments respecting its proposed Final Netting Date, Treasury will publish in the
Federal Register
a Final Netting Date, which is at least 180 days after the date of publication. The Secretary's determination of a Final Netting Date is final and not subject to judicial review.
(c)
Post-Final Netting Date claims.
After the Final Netting Date, insurers may only make further claims for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses by submission of Supplemental Certifications of Loss with updated information on underlying insured losses previously reported to Treasury. Such updated information may reflect a decision by a court of competent jurisdiction concerning a limitation of liability under the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002. In the case of workers' compensation losses, the insurer may provide updated information based on the number of workers' compensation claimants previously reported. An insurer may not report any new underlying insured losses, or increased workers' compensation loss amounts based on an increase in the number of workers' compensation claimants, to Treasury after a Final Netting Date, except as provided in this section.
(d)
Commutation.
A commutation is the payment by Treasury of a lump sum present value of future payments to an insurer in lieu of making payments in the future, as provided in this section.
(1) In lieu of continued submission of Supplemental Certifications of Loss after the Final Netting Date as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, Treasury may require, or consider an insurer's request for, a commutation of an insurer's future claims for the Federal share of compensation based on estimates for the underlying insured losses reported to Treasury on or before the Final Netting Date. The payment by Treasury of a final commuted amount to an insurer will discharge Treasury from all future liabilities to the insurer for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses for the applicable calendar year. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the requirements of § 50.74(f) apply, and payment of the final commuted amount to the designated insurer of the affiliated group discharges Treasury's payment obligation to the insurers in the affiliated group for insured losses for the applicable calendar year.
(2) If future claims are to be commuted, Treasury may require additional information from the insurer, including an insurer's justification for a final payment amount with necessary actuarial factors and methodology, and pertinent information regarding the insurer's business relationships and other reinsurance recoverables. Insurers will be required to justify discount and other factors from which final payment amounts are derived. If Treasury notifies an insurer of a requirement to submit additional information to inform its commutation decision, the insurer will be provided (depending upon the complexity of the material sought) no less than 90 days from the date of notification to submit material required in the notice. If the insurer fails to provide the requested information, it will forfeit the right to future payments from Treasury. Treasury will evaluate such information in order to determine a final payment amount or (if applicable) an amount to be repaid to Treasury. Treasury may determine that it will not consider commutation until it
has completed an audit of an insurer's insured losses pursuant to the authority set forth in subpart I of these regulations.
(3) Payments of commuted amounts are not considered to be advance payments requiring a segregated account as described in § 50.74(d).
(4) Notwithstanding § 50.70(d), a payment by Treasury of a final commuted amount to an insurer is final unless:
(i) Treasury is put on notice that an insurer's claim was fraudulent or that other conditions for Federal payment were not met, in which case the insurer will be required to repay amounts that were not due; or
(ii) The exception in paragraph (e) of this section applies, in which case Treasury may make additional payments for insured losses, but only under the conditions described in paragraph (e).
(e)
Exception.
If within one year after the Final Netting Date, and regardless of commutation, an insurer has additional underlying reported insured losses that, in the absence of a Final Netting Date, would result in an increase of the Federal share of compensation to that insurer by 20% of the total amount already paid to that insurer, the insurer may request Treasury to allow those underlying insured losses to be submitted as part of a certification of loss. Under such circumstances and provided that all other conditions for payment have been met, Treasury may reopen or extend the insurer's claim for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses for the pertinent calendar year.

# Subpart I—Audit and Investigative Procedures
§ 50.80
Audit authority.
The Secretary of the Treasury, or an authorized representative, shall have, upon reasonable notice, access to all books, documents, papers and records of an insurer that are pertinent to amounts paid to the insurer as the Federal share of compensation for insured losses, or pertinent to any Federal terrorism policy surcharge that is imposed pursuant to subpart J of this part, for the purposes of investigation, confirmation, audit, and examination.
§ 50.81
Recordkeeping.
(a) Each insurer that seeks payment of a Federal share of compensation under subpart H of this part shall retain such records as are necessary to fully disclose all material matters pertinent to insured losses and the Federal share of compensation sought under the Program, including, but not limited to, records regarding premiums and insured losses for all commercial property and casualty insurance issued by the insurer and information relating to any adjustment in the amount of the Federal share of compensation payable. Insurers shall maintain detailed records for not less than five (5) years from the termination dates of all reinsurance agreements involving property and casualty insurance subject to the Act. Records relating to premiums shall be retained and available for review for not less than three (3) years following the conclusion of the policy year. Records relating to underlying claims shall be retained for not less than five (5) years following the final adjustment of the claim.
(b) Each insurer that collects a Federal terrorism policy surcharge as required by subpart J of this part shall retain records related to such surcharge, including records of the property and casualty insurance premiums subject to the surcharge, the amount of the surcharge imposed on each policy, aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharges collected, and aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharges remitted to Treasury during each assessment period. Such records shall be retained and kept available for review for not less than three (3) years following the conclusion of the assessment period or settlement of accounts with Treasury, whichever is later.
§ 50.82
Civil penalties.
(a)
General.
The Secretary may assess a civil monetary penalty, in an amount not exceeding the amount specified under § 50.83, against any insurer that the Secretary determines, on the record after opportunity for a hearing:
(1) Has failed to charge, collect, or remit the Federal terrorism policy surcharge under subpart J;
(2) Has intentionally provided to Treasury erroneous information regarding premium or loss amounts;
(3) Submits to Treasury fraudulent claims under the Program for insured losses;
(4) Has failed to provide any disclosures or other information required by Treasury; or
(5) Has otherwise failed to comply with provisions of the Act or these regulations.
(b)
Recovery of amount in dispute.
A penalty under this section for any failure to pay, charge, collect, or remit amounts in accordance with the Act or under these regulations shall be in addition to any such amounts recovered by Treasury.
(c)
Procedure.
Treasury shall notify in writing any insurer that it believes has committed one or more of the acts identified in paragraph (a) of this section. In that notification, Treasury shall identify the act or acts that it believes has been violated, and its basis for that belief, and shall set a schedule for further proceedings which shall include:
(1) The opportunity for a written submission by the insurer that provides all relevant facts and circumstances concerning the alleged conduct, including any information that the insurer wishes Treasury to consider in connection with the alleged conduct; and
(2) A hearing on the record, unless waived by the insurer, during which Treasury and the insurer may present further information respecting the conduct in question.
(d)
Other remedies preserved.
Treasury's assessment and collection of a civil monetary penalty under this section shall be in addition and without prejudice to any other civil remedies or criminal penalties that may arise on account of the conduct in question under any other laws or regulations of the United States.
§ 50.83
Adjustment of civil monetary penalty amount.
(a)
Inflation adjustment.
Any penalty under the Act and these regulations may not exceed the greater of $1,741,100 and, in the case of any failure to pay, charge, collect or remit amounts in accordance with the Act or these regulations such amount in dispute.
(b)
Annual adjustment.
The maximum penalty amount that may be assessed under this section will be adjusted in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015, 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, by January 15 of each year and the updated amount will be posted in the
Federal Register
and on the Treasury website at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30540, June 9, 2021; 88 FR 16887, Mar. 21, 2023; 89 FR 4820, Jan. 25, 2024; 90 FR 25484, June 17, 2025]

# Subpart J—Recoupment and Surcharge Procedures
§ 50.90
Mandatory and discretionary recoupment.
(a) Pursuant to section 103(e) of the Act, the Secretary shall impose, and insurers shall collect, such Federal terrorism policy surcharges as needed to recover 140 percent of the mandatory recoupment amount for any calendar year.
(b) In the Secretary's discretion, the Secretary may recover any portion of the aggregate Federal share of compensation that exceeds the mandatory recoupment amount through a Federal terrorism policy surcharge based on the factors set forth in section 103(e)(7)(D) of the Act.
(c) If the Secretary imposes a federal terrorism policy surcharge as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, then the required amounts, based upon the extent to which payments for the Federal Share of Compensation have been made by the collection deadlines in section 103(e)(7)(E) of the Act, shall be collected in accordance with such deadlines:
(1) For any act of terrorism that occurs on or before December 31, 2022, the Secretary shall collect all required amounts by September 30, 2024;
(2) For any act of terrorism that occurs between January 1, 2023 and December 31, 2023, the Secretary shall collect 35% of any required amounts by
September 30, 2024, and the remainder by September 30, 2029; and
(3) For any act of terrorism that occurs on or after January 1, 2024, the Secretary shall collect all required amounts by September 30, 2029.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30541, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.91
Determination of recoupment amounts.
(a) If payments for the Federal share of compensation have been made for a calendar year, and Treasury determines that insured loss information is sufficiently developed and credible to serve as a basis for calculating recoupment amounts, Treasury will make an initial determination of any mandatory or discretionary recoupment amounts for that calendar year.
(b)(1) Within 90 days after certification of an act of terrorism, the Secretary shall publish in the
Federal Register
an estimate of aggregate insured losses which shall be used as the basis for initially determining whether mandatory recoupment will be required.
(2) If at any time Treasury projects that payments for the Federal share of compensation will be made for a calendar year, and that in order to meet the collection timing requirements of section 103(e)(7)(E) of the Act it is necessary to use an estimate of such payments as a basis for calculating recoupment amounts, Treasury will make an initial determination of any mandatory recoupment amounts for that calendar year.
(c) Following the initial determination of recoupment amounts for a calendar year, Treasury will recalculate any mandatory or discretionary recoupment amount as necessary and appropriate, and at least annually, until a final recoupment amount for the calendar year is determined. Treasury will compare any recalculated recoupment amount to amounts already remitted and/or to be remitted to Treasury for a Federal terrorism policy surcharge previously established to determine whether any additional amount will be recouped by Treasury.
(d) For the purpose of determining initial or recalculated recoupment amounts, Treasury may issue a data call to insurers for insurer deductible and insured loss information by calendar year. Treasury's determination of the aggregate amount of insured losses from Program Trigger Events of all insurers for a calendar year will be based on the amounts reported in response to a data call and any other information Treasury in its discretion considers appropriate. Submission of data in response to a data call shall be on a form promulgated by Treasury.
§ 50.92
Establishment of Federal terrorism policy surcharge.
(a) Treasury will establish the Federal terrorism policy surcharge based on the following factors and considerations:
(1) In the case of a mandatory recoupment amount, the requirement to collect 140 percent of that amount;
(2) The total dollar amount to be recouped as a percentage of the latest available annual aggregate industry direct written premium information;
(3) The adjustment factors for terrorism loss risk-spreading premiums described in section 103(e)(8)(D) of the Act;
(4) The annual 3 percent limitation on terrorism loss risk-spreading premiums collected on a discretionary basis as provided in section 103(e)(8)(C) of the Act;
(5) A preferred minimum initial assessment period of one full year and subsequent extension periods in full year increments;
(6) The collection timing requirements of section 103(e)(8)(E) of the Act;
(7) The likelihood that the amount of the Federal terrorism policy surcharge may result in the collection of an aggregate recoupment amount in excess of the planned recoupment amount; and
(8) Such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate to take into account.
(b) The Federal terrorism policy surcharge shall be the obligation of the policyholder and is payable to the insurer with the premium for a property and casualty insurance policy in effect during the assessment period established by Treasury. See § 50.94(c).
§ 50.93
Notification of recoupment.
(a) Treasury will provide notifications of recoupment through publication of notices in the
Federal Register
or in another manner Treasury deems appropriate, based upon the circumstances of the certified act(s) of terrorism under consideration.
(b) Treasury will provide reasonable advance notice to insurers of any initial Federal terrorism policy surcharge effective date. This effective date shall be January 1 of the calendar year following publication of the notice, unless such date would not provide for sufficient notice of implementation while meeting the collection timing requirements of section 103(e)(8)(E) of the Act.
(c) Treasury will provide reasonable advance notice to insurers of any modification or cessation of the Federal terrorism policy surcharge.
(d) Treasury will provide notification to insurers annually as to the continuation of the Federal terrorism policy surcharge.
§ 50.94
Collecting the surcharge.
(a) Insurers shall collect a Federal terrorism policy surcharge from policyholders as required by Treasury.
(b) Policies subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge are those for which direct written premium is reported on commercial lines of business on the NAIC's Exhibit of Premiums and Losses of the NAIC Annual Statement (commonly known as Statutory Page 14) as provided in § 50.4(w)(1), or equivalently reported.
(c) For policies subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge, the surcharge shall be imposed and collected on a written premium basis for policies that become effective or renew during the assessment period. All new, renewal, mid-term, and audit premiums for a policy term are subject to the surcharge in effect on the policy term effective date. Notwithstanding this paragraph, if the premium for a policy term that would otherwise be subject to the surcharge is revised after the end of the reporting period described in § 50.95(e), then any additional premium attributable to such revision is not subject to the Surcharge. For purposes of this subpart:
(1) Written premium basis means the premium amount charged a policyholder by an insurer for property and casualty insurance, including all premiums, policy expense constants and fees defined as premium pursuant to the Statements of Statutory Accounting Principles established by the NAIC, as adopted by the state for which the premium will be reported.
(2) In the case of a policy providing multiple insurance coverages, if an insurer cannot identify the premium amount charged a policyholder specifically for property and casualty insurance under the policy, then:
(i) If the insurer estimates that the portion of the premium amount charged for coverage other than property and casualty insurance is
de minimis
to the total premium for the policy, the insurer may impose and collect from the policyholder a surcharge amount based on the total premium for the policy, but
(ii) If the insurer estimates that the portion of the premium amount charged for coverage other than property and casualty insurance is not
de minimis,
the insurer shall impose and collect from the policyholder a Surcharge amount based on a reasonable estimate of the premium amount for the property and casualty insurance coverage under the policy.
(3) The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is not considered premium.
(d) A policyholder must pay the applicable Federal terrorism policy surcharge when due. The insurer shall have such rights and remedies to enforce the collection of the surcharge that are the equivalent to those that exist under applicable state or other law for nonpayment of premium.
(e) When an insurer returns an unearned premium, or otherwise refunds premium to a policyholder, it shall also return any Federal terrorism policy surcharge collected that is attributable to the refunded unearned premium. Notwithstanding this paragraph, if the written premium for a policy is revised and refunded after the end of the reporting period described in § 50.95(e), then the insurer is not required to refund any Surcharge that is attributable to the refunded premium.
(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, if the expense of collecting the Federal terrorism policy surcharge from all policyholders of an insurer during an assessment period exceeds the amount of the Surcharges anticipated to be collected, such insurer may satisfy its obligation to collect by omitting actual collection and instead remitting to Treasury the amount otherwise due.
(g) The Federal terrorism policy surcharge is repayment of Federal financial assistance in an amount required by law. No fee or commission shall be charged on the Federal terrorism policy surcharge.
§ 50.95
Remitting the surcharge.
(a) Each insurer shall report direct written premium and Federal terrorism policy surcharges to Treasury on a monthly and annual basis during the assessment period. Reporting will be on a form prescribed by Treasury and will be due according to the following schedule:
(1)
Monthly:
From the beginning of the assessment period through November, on the last business day of the calendar month following the month for which premium is reported, and
(2)
Annually:
March 1 for the prior calendar year.
(b) The monthly statements provided to Treasury will include the following:
(1) Cumulative calendar year direct written premium adjusted for premium not subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge, summarized by policy year.
(2) The aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount calculated by applying the established surcharge percentage to the insurer's adjusted direct written premium by policy year.
(3) Insurer certification of the submission.
(c) The annual statements to be provided to Treasury will include the following:
(1) Direct written premium, adjusted for premium not subject to the Federal terrorism policy surcharge, summarized by policy year and by commercial line of insurance as specified in § 50.4(w).
(2) The aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount calculated by applying the established surcharge percentage to the insurer's adjusted direct written premium by policy year.
(3) In the case of an insurer that has chosen not to collect the Federal terrorism policy surcharge from its policyholders as provided in § 50.94(f), a certification that the expense of collecting the Surcharge during the assessment period would have exceeded the amount of the surcharges collected over the assessment period.
(4) Insurer certification of the submission.
(d) The calculated aggregate Federal terrorism policy surcharge amount, as described in paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section, shall be remitted to Treasury upon submission of each monthly and annual statement. Through its submitted statements, an insurer obtains credit for a refund of any Federal terrorism policy surcharge previously remitted to Treasury that was subsequently returned by the insurer to a policyholder as attributable to refunded premium under § 50.94(e). A negative calculated amount in a monthly or annual statement indicates payment from Treasury is due to the insurer.
(e) Reporting shall continue for the one-year period following the end of the assessment period established by Treasury, unless otherwise permitted by Treasury.
§ 50.96
Insurer responsibility.
Notwithstanding § 50.4(o), for purposes of the collection, reporting and remittance of Federal terrorism policy surcharges to Treasury, the definition of insurer shall not include any affiliate of the insurer.

# Subpart K—Federal Cause of Action; Approval of Settlements
§ 50.100
Federal cause of action and remedy.
(a)
General.
If the Secretary certifies an act as an act of terrorism pursuant to subpart G of this part, there shall exist a Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death arising out of or resulting from such act of terrorism, pursuant to section 107 of the Act, which shall be the exclusive cause of action and remedy
for claims for property damage, personal injury, or death arising out of or relating to such act of terrorism, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Jurisdiction.
For each determination described in paragraph (a) of this section, not later than 90 days after the Secretary certifies an act as an act of terrorism, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation shall designate a single district court or, if necessary, multiple district courts of the United States that shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over all actions for any claim (including any claim for loss of property, personal injury, or death) relating to or arising out of an act of terrorism subject to section 107 of the Act.
(c)
Effective period.
The exclusive Federal cause of action and remedy described in paragraph (a) of this section shall exist only for causes of action for property damage, personal injury, or death that arise out of or result from acts of terrorism during the effective period of the Program.
(d)
Rights not affected.
Nothing in section 107 of the Act or this subpart shall in any way:
(1) Limit the liability of any government, organization, or person who knowingly participates in, conspires to commit, aids and abets, or commits any act of terrorism;
(2) Affect any party's contractual right to arbitrate a dispute; or
(3) Affect any provision of the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (Pub. L. 107-42; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note).
§ 50.101
State causes of action preempted.
All State causes of action of any kind for property damage, personal injury, or death arising out of or resulting from an act of terrorism that are otherwise available under state law are preempted, except that, pursuant to section 107(b) of the Act, nothing in this section shall limit in any way the liability of any government, organization, or person who knowingly participates in, conspires to commit, aids and abets, or commits the act of terrorism certified by the Secretary.
§ 50.102
Advance approval of settlements.
(a)
Mandatory submission of settlements for advance approval.
Pursuant to section 107(a)(6) of the Act, an insurer shall submit to Treasury for advance approval any proposed agreement to settle or compromise any Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death, asserted by a third-party or parties against an insured, involving an insured loss, all or part of the payment of which the insurer intends to include in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the insurer deductible or the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses under the Program, when:
(1) Any portion of the proposed settlement amount that is attributable to an insured loss or losses involving personal injury or death in the aggregate is $2 million or more per third-party claimant, regardless of the number of causes of action or insured losses being settled; or
(2) Any portion of the proposed settlement amount that is attributable to an insured loss or losses involving property damage (including loss of use) in the aggregate is $10 million or more per third-party claimant, regardless of the number of causes of action or insured losses being settled.
(b)
Discretionary review of other settlements.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, Treasury may require that an insurer submit for review and advance approval any proposed agreement to settle or compromise any Federal cause of action for property damage, personal injury, or death, asserted by a third-party or parties against an insured, involving an insured loss, all or part of the payment of which the insurer intends to include in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the insurer deductible or the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses where the settlement amounts are below the applicable monetary thresholds identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c)
Factors.
In determining whether to approve a proposed settlement, Treasury will consider the nature of the loss, the facts and circumstances
surrounding the loss, and other factors such as whether:
(1) The proposed settlement compensates for a third-party's loss, the liability for which is an insured loss under the terms and conditions of the underlying commercial property and casualty insurance policy, as certified by the insurer pursuant to § 50.103(d)(2);
(2) Any amount of the proposed settlement is attributable to punitive or exemplary damages intended to punish or deter (whether or not specifically so described as such damages);
(3) The settlement amount offsets amounts received from the United States pursuant to any other Federal program;
(4) The settlement amount does not include any items such as fees and expenses of attorneys, experts, and other professionals that have caused the insured losses under the underlying commercial property and casualty insurance policy to be overstated; and
(5) Any other criteria that Treasury may consider appropriate, depending on the facts and circumstances surrounding the settlement, including the information contained in § 50.103.
(d)
Settlement without seeking advance approval or despite disapproval.
If an insurer settles a cause of action or agrees to the settlement of a cause of action without submitting the proposed settlement for Treasury's advance approval in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and in accordance with § 50.103 or despite Treasury's disapproval of the proposed settlement, the insurer will not be entitled to include the paid settlement amount (or portion of the settlement amount, to the extent partially disapproved) in its aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses, unless the insurer can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of Treasury, extenuating circumstances.
§ 50.103
Procedure for requesting approval of proposed settlements.
(a)
Submission of notice.
Insurers must request advance approval of a proposed settlement by submitting a notice of the proposed settlement and other required information in writing to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Office or its designated representative. The address where notices are to be submitted will be available at
https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-markets-financial-institutions-and-fiscal-service/federal-insurance-office/terrorism-risk-insurance-program
following any certification of an act of terrorism pursuant to section 102(1) of the Act.
(b)
Complete notice.
Treasury will review requests for advance approval and determine whether additional information is needed to complete the notice.
(c)
Treasury response or deemed approval.
Within 30 days after Treasury's receipt of a complete notice, or as extended in writing by Treasury, Treasury may issue a written response and indicate its partial or full approval or rejection of the proposed settlement. If Treasury does not issue a response within 30 days after Treasury's receipt of a complete notice, unless extended in writing by Treasury, the request for advance approval is deemed approved by Treasury. Any settlement is still subject to review under the claim procedures pursuant to § 50.80.
(d)
Notice format.
A notice of a proposed settlement should be entitled, “Notice of Proposed Settlement—Request for Approval,” and should provide the full name and address of the submitting insurer and the name, title, address, and telephone number of the designated contact person. An insurer must provide all relevant information, including the following, as applicable:
(1) A brief description of the claim against the insured, the amount of the claim, the operative policy terms, and defenses to coverage;
(2) A certification by the insurer that the settlement is for a third-party's loss, the liability for which is an insured loss under the terms and conditions of the underlying commercial property and casualty insurance policy;
(3) A brief description of all damages allegedly sustained and an itemized statement of all damages by category (
i.e.,
actual, economic and non-economic loss, punitive damages, etc.);
(4) A statement from the insurer or its attorney in support of the settlement;
(5) The total dollar amount of the proposed settlement and the amount of
the proposed settlement which is an insured loss;
(6) Indication as to whether the settlement was negotiated by counsel;
(7) The amount to be paid that will compensate for any items such as fees and expenses of attorneys, experts, and other professionals for their services and expenses related to the insured loss and/or settlement and the net amount to be received by the third-party after such payment;
(8) The amount(s) received from the United States pursuant to any other Federal program(s) for compensation of insured losses related to an act of terrorism;
(9) The proposed terms of the written settlement agreement, including release language and subrogation terms;
(10) Other relevant agreements, including:
(i) Admissions of liability or insurance coverage;
(ii) Determinations of the number of occurrences under a commercial property and casualty insurance policy;
(iii) The allocation of paid amounts or amounts to be paid to certain policies, or to a specific policy, coverage and/or aggregate limits;
(iv) Any other agreement that may affect the payment or amount of the Federal share of compensation to be paid to the insurer; and
(v) Any other relevant agreement requested by Treasury.
(11) A statement indicating whether the proposed settlement has been approved by the Federal court or is subject to such approval and whether such approval is expected or likely; and
(12) Such other information that is related to the insured loss as may be requested by Treasury that it deems necessary to evaluate the proposed settlement.
[81 FR 93765, Dec. 21, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 30541, June 9, 2021]
§ 50.104
Subrogation.
An insurer shall not waive its rights of subrogation under its property and casualty insurance policy with respect to any losses the payment of which the insurer intends to include in its insurer deductible or the aggregate insured losses for purposes of calculating the Federal share of compensation of its insured losses and shall, unless upon request the United States agrees in writing to forbear from exercising such right, preserve the subrogation right of the United States as provided by section 107(c) of the Act by not taking any action that would prejudice the subrogation right of the United States.

# Subpart L—Cap on Annual Liability
§ 50.110
Cap on annual liability.
Pursuant to section 103 of the Act, if the aggregate insured losses exceed $100,000,000,000 during a calendar year:
(a) The Secretary shall not make any payment for any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000;
(b) An insurer that has met its insurer deductible shall not be liable for the payment of any portion of the amount of such losses that exceeds $100,000,000,000; and
(c) The Secretary shall determine the
pro rata
share of insured losses to be paid by each insurer that incurs insured losses under the Program.
§ 50.111
Notice to Congress.
Pursuant to section 103(e)(3) of the Act, the Secretary shall provide an initial notice to Congress within 15 days of the certification of an act of terrorism, stating whether the Secretary estimates that aggregate insured losses will exceed $100,000,000,000 for the calendar year in which the event occurs. Such initial estimate may be based on insured loss amounts as compiled by insurance industry statistical organizations, data previously collected by the Secretary, and any other information the Secretary in his or her discretion considers appropriate. The Secretary shall also notify Congress if estimated or actual aggregate insured losses exceed $100,000,000,000 during any calendar year.
§ 50.112
Determination of
pro rata
share.
(a)
Pro rata loss percentage (PRLP)
is the percentage determined by the Secretary to be applied by an insurer against the amount that would otherwise be paid by the insurer under the terms and conditions of an insurance
policy providing property and casualty insurance under the Program if there were no cap on annual liability under section 103(e)(2)(A) of the Act.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, if Treasury estimates that aggregate insured losses may exceed the cap on annual liability for a calendar year, then Treasury will determine a PRLP. The PRLP applies to insured loss payments by insurers for insured losses incurred in the subject calendar year, as specified in § 50.113, from the effective date of the PRLP, as established by Treasury, until such time as Treasury provides notice that the PRLP is revised. Treasury will determine the PRLP based on the following considerations:
(1) Estimates of insured losses from insurance industry statistical organizations;
(2) Any data calls issued by Treasury (see § 50.114);
(3) Expected reliability and accuracy of insured loss estimates and likelihood that insured loss estimates could increase;
(4) Estimates of insured losses and expenses not included in available statistical reporting;
(5) Such other factors as the Secretary considers important.
(c) Treasury shall provide notice of the determination of the PRLP through publication in the
Federal Register,
or in another manner Treasury deems appropriate, based upon the circumstances of the act of terrorism under consideration.
(d) As appropriate, Treasury will determine any revision to a PRLP based on the same considerations listed in paragraph (b) of this section, and will provide notice for its application to insured loss payments.
(e) If Treasury estimates based on an initial act of terrorism or subsequent act of terrorism within a calendar year that aggregate insured losses may exceed the cap on annual liability, but an appropriate PRLP cannot yet be determined, Treasury will provide notification advising insurers of this circumstance and, after consulting with the relevant state authorities, may initiate the action described in either paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1)
Hiatus in payments.
Call a hiatus in insurer loss payments for insured losses of up to two weeks. In such a circumstance, Treasury will determine a PRLP as quickly as possible. The PRLP, as later determined, will be effective retroactively as of the start of the hiatus. Any insured losses submitted in support of an insurer's claim for the Federal share of compensation will be reviewed for the insurer's compliance with
pro rata
payments in accordance with the effective date of the PRLP.
(2)
Determine an interim PRLP.
(i) An interim PRLP is an amount determined without the availability of information necessary for consideration of all factors listed in § 50.112(b). It is a conservatively low percentage amount determined in order to facilitate initial partial claim payments by insurers after an act of terrorism and prior to the time that information becomes available to determine a PRLP based on consideration of the factors listed in § 50.112(b).
(ii) In such a circumstance, Treasury will determine a PRLP to replace the interim PRLP as quickly as possible. The PRLP, as later determined, will be effective retroactively as of the effective date of the interim PRLP. Any insured losses submitted in support of an insurer's claim for the Federal share of compensation will be reviewed for the insurer's compliance with
pro rata
payments in accordance with the effective date of the interim PRLP, or as later replaced by the PRLP as appropriate.
§ 50.113
Application of
pro rata
share.
An insurer shall apply the PRLP to determine the
pro rata
share of each insured loss to be paid by the insurer on all insured losses in the absence of an agreement on a complete and final settlement as evidenced by a signed settlement agreement or other means reviewable by a third party as of the effective date established by Treasury. Payments based on the application of the PRLP and determination of the
pro rata
share satisfy the insurer's liability for payment under the Program. Application of the PRLP and the determination of the
pro rata
share are the exclusive means for calculating the amount of insured losses for Program purposes.
The
pro rata
share is subject to the following:
(a) The
pro rata
share is determined based on the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid.
(b)
All policies.
If partial payments have already been made as of the effective date of the PRLP, then the
pro rata
share for that loss is the greater of the amount already paid as of the effective date of the PRLP or the amount computed by applying the PRLP to the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid.
(c)
Certain workers' compensation insurance policies.
If an insurer's payments under a workers' compensation policy cumulatively exceed the amount computed by applying the PRLP to the estimated or actual final claim settlement amount that would otherwise be paid because such estimated or actual final settlement amount is reduced from a previous estimate, then the insurer may request a review and adjustment by Treasury in the calculation of the Federal share of compensation. In requesting such a review, the insurer must submit information to supplement its Certification of Loss demonstrating a reasonable estimate invalidated by unexpected conditions differing from prior assumptions including, but not limited to, an explanation and the basis for the prior assumptions.
(d) If an insurer has not yet made payments in excess of its insurer deductible, the rules in this paragraph apply.
(1) If the insurer estimates that it will exceed its insurer deductible making payments based on the application of the PRLP to its insured losses, then the insurer shall apply the PRLP as of the effective date specified in § 50.112(b).
(2)(i) If the insurer estimates that it will not exceed its insurer deductible making payments based on the application of the PRLP to its insured losses, then the insurer may make payments on the same basis as prior to the effective date of the PRLP. The insurer may also make payments on the basis of applying some other
pro rata
amount it determines that is greater than the PRLP, where the insurer estimates that application of such other
pro rata
amount will result in it not exceeding its insurer deductible. The insurer remains liable for losses in accordance with § 50.115(c).
(ii) If an insurer estimates that it will not exceed its insurer deductible and has made payments on the basis provided in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, but thereafter reaches its insurer deductible, then the insurer shall apply the PRLP to any remaining insured losses. When such an insurer submits a claim for the Federal share of compensation, the amount of the insurer's losses will be deemed to be the amount it would have paid if it had applied the PRLP as of the effective date, and the Federal share of compensation will be calculated on that amount. However, an insurer may request an exception if it can demonstrate that its estimate was invalidated as a result of insured losses from a subsequent act of terrorism.
§ 50.114
Data call authority.
For the purpose of determining initial or recalculated PRLPs, Treasury may issue a data call to insurers for insured loss information, seeking information in addition to any information provided to Treasury under subparts F and H of this part.
§ 50.115
Final amount.
(a) Treasury shall determine if, as a final proration, remaining insured loss payments, as well as adjustments to previous insured loss payments, can be made by insurers based on an adjusted PLRP, and aggregate insured losses still remain within the cap on annual liability. In such a circumstance, Treasury will notify insurers as to the final PRLP and its application to insured losses.
(b) If paragraph (a) of this section applies, Treasury may require, as part of the insurer submission for the Federal share of compensation for insured losses, a supplementary explanation regarding how additional payments will be provided on previously settled insured losses.
(c) An insurer that has prorated its insured losses, but that has not met its insurer deductible, remains liable for
loss payments that in the aggregate bring the insurer's total insured loss payments up to an amount equal to the lesser of its insured losses without proration or its insurer deductible.

# Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
31 CFR Ch. I (7-1-25 Edition)
Monetary Offices, Treasury

# CHAPTER I—MONETARY OFFICES, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Part
Page
51-55
[Reserved]
56
Domestic gold and silver operations sale of silver
427
82
5-Cent and one-cent coin regulations
427
91
Regulations governing conduct in or on the Bureau of the Mint buildings and grounds
428
92
United States Mint operations and procedures
430
100
Exchange of paper currency and coin
437
101
Mitigation of forfeiture of counterfeit gold coins
442
123
[Reserved]
128
Reporting of international capital and foreign-currency transactions and positions
443
129
Portfolio investment survey reporting
447
130-131
[Reserved]
132
Prohibition on funding of unlawful Internet gambling
448
133-147
[Reserved]
148
Qualified financial contracts recordkeeping related to the FDIC orderly liquidation authority
459
149
Calculation of maximum obligation limitation
486
150
Financial research fund
487
151-199
[Reserved]
PARTS 51-55 [RESERVED]
Pt. 56

# PART 56—DOMESTIC GOLD AND SILVER OPERATIONS SALE OF SILVER
Sec.
56.1
Conditions upon which silver will be sold.
56.2
Sales price.

# Authority:
Sec. 209, 79 Stat. 257; 31 U.S.C. 405a-1.
§ 56.1
Conditions upon which silver will be sold.
The General Services Administration, as agent for the Treasury Department, will conduct periodic sales of silver as agreed upon between GSA and the Treasury Department. Sales will be under competitive bidding procedures established by agreement between GSA and the Treasury Department. Details of the bidding and selling procedures are obtainable by telephone or by writing to General Services Administration, Property Management and Disposal Service, Industry Materials Division, Metals Project, Washington, DC 20405.
[32 FR 13380, Sept. 22, 1967]
§ 56.2
Sales price.
Sales of silver will be at prices offered through the competitive bidding procedures referred to in § 56.1, and accepted by the GSA.
[32 FR 13380, Sept. 22, 1967]
Pt. 82

# PART 82—5-CENT AND ONE-CENT COIN REGULATIONS
Sec.
82.1
Prohibitions.
82.2
Exceptions.
82.3
Definitions.
82.4
Penalties.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 5111(d).

# Source:
72 FR 61055, Oct. 29, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 82.1
Prohibitions.
Except as specifically authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury (or designee) or as otherwise provided in this part, no person shall export, melt, or treat:
(a) Any 5-cent coin of the United States; or
(b) Any one-cent coin of the United States.
§ 82.2
Exceptions.
(a) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the exportation of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins of the United States shall not apply to:
(1) The exportation in any one shipment of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins having an aggregate face value of not more than $100 that are to be legitimately used as money or for numismatic purposes. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to authorize export for the purpose of sale or resale of coins for melting or treatment by any person.
(2) The exportation of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins carried on an individual, or in the personal effects of an individual, departing from a place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, when the aggregate face value is not more than $5, or when the aggregate face value is not more than $25 and it is clear that the purpose for exporting such coins is for legitimate personal numismatic, amusement, or recreational use.
(b) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the treatment of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins shall not apply to the treatment of these coins for educational, amusement, novelty, jewelry, and similar purposes as long as the volumes treated and the nature of the treatment makes it clear that such treatment is not intended as a means by which to profit solely from the value of the metal content of the coins.
(c) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the exportation, melting, or treatment of 5-cent and one-cent coins of the United States shall not apply to coins exported, melted, or treated incidental to the recycling of other materials so long as—
(1) Such 5-cent and one-cent coins were not added to the other materials for their metallurgical value;
(2) The volumes of the 5-cent coins and one-cent coins, relative to the volumes of the other materials recycled, makes it clear that the presence of such coins is merely incidental; and
(3) The separation of the 5-cent and one-cent coins from the other materials would be impracticable or cost prohibitive.
(d) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the exportation, melting, or treatment of 5-cent coins shall not apply to 5-cent coins inscribed with the years 1942, 1943, 1944, or 1945 that are composed of an alloy comprising copper, silver and manganese.
(e) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against the exportation of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins shall not apply to 5-cent coins and one-cent coins exported by a Federal Reserve Bank or a domestic depository institution, or to a foreign central bank, when the exportation of such 5-cent coins and one-cent coins is for use as circulating money.
(f)(1) The prohibition contained in § 82.1 against exportation, melting, or treatment of 5-cent coins and one-cent coins of the United States shall not apply to coins exported, melted, or treated under a written license issued by the Secretary of the Treasury (or designee).
(2) Applications for licenses should be transmitted to the Director, United States Mint, 801 9th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
§ 82.3
Definitions.
(a)
5-cent coin of the United States
means a 5-cent coin minted and issued by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5112(a)(5).
(b)
One-cent coin of the United States
means a one-cent coin minted and issued by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5112(a)(6).
(c)
Export
means to remove, send, ship, or carry, or to take any action with the intent to facilitate a person's removing, sending, shipping, or carrying, from the United States or any place subject to the jurisdiction thereof, to any place outside of the United States or to any place not subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
(d)
Person
means any individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other organization, but does not include an agency of the Government of the United States.
(e)
Treat
or
treatment
means to smelt, refine, or otherwise treat by heating, or by a chemical, electrical, or mechanical process.
§ 82.4
Penalties.
(a) Any person who exports, melts, or treats 5-cent coins or one-cent coins of the United States in violation of § 82.1 shall be subject to the penalties specified in 31 U.S.C. 5111(d), including a fine of not more than $10,000 and/or imprisonment of not more than 5 years.
(b) In addition to the penalties prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 5111(d), a person violating the prohibitions of this part may be subject to other penalties provided by law, including 18 U.S.C. 1001(a).
Pt. 91

# PART 91—REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONDUCT IN OR ON THE BUREAU OF THE MINT BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS
Sec.
91.1
Authority.
91.2
Applicability.
91.3
Recording presence.
91.4
Preservation of property.
91.5
Compliance with signs and directions.
91.6
Nuisances.
91.7
Gambling.
91.8
Alcoholic beverages, narcotics, hallucinogenic and dangerous drugs.
91.9
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
91.10
Photographs.
91.11
Dogs and other animals.
91.12
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
91.13
Weapons and explosives.
91.14
Penalties and other law.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, by delegation from the Administrator of General Services, 35 FR 14426, and Treasury Department Order 177-25 (Revision 2), 38 FR 21947.

# Source:
34 FR 503, Jan. 14, 1969, unless otherwise noted.
§ 91.1
Authority.
The regulations in this part governing conduct in and on the Bureau of the Mint buildings and grounds located as follows: U.S. Mint, Colfax, and Delaware Streets, Denver, Colorado; U.S. Bullion Depository, Fort Knox, Kentucky; U.S. Assay Office, 32 Old Slip New York, New York; U.S. Mint, 5th and Arch Streets, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; U.S. Assay Office, 155 Hermann Street, and the Old U.S. Mint
Building, 88 Fifth Street, San Francisco, California; and U.S. Bullion Depository, West Point, New York; are promulgated pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury, including 5 U.S.C. 301, and that vested in him by delegation from the Administrator of General Services, 38 FR 20650 (1973), and in accordance with the authority vested in the Director of the Mint by Treasury Department Order No. 177-25 Revision 2), dated August 8, 1973, 38 FR 21947 (1973).
[38 FR 24897, Sept. 11, 1973]
§ 91.2
Applicability.
The regulations in this part apply to the buildings and grounds of the Bureau of the Mint located as follows: U.S. Mint, Colfax and Delaware Streets, Denver, Colorado; U.S. Bullion Depository, Fort Knox, Kentucky; U.S. Assay Office, 32 Old Slip, New York, New York; U.S. Mint, Fifth and Arch Streets, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; U.S. Assay Office, 155 Hermann Street, and the Old U.S. Mint Building, 88 Fifth Street, San Francisco, California; and U.S. Bullion Depository, West Point, New York; and to all persons entering in or on such property. Unless otherwise stated herein, the Bureau of the Mint buildings and grounds shall be referred to in these regulations as the “property”.
[38 FR 24897, Sept. 11, 1973]
§ 91.3
Recording presence.
Except as otherwise ordered, the property shall be closed to the public during other than normal working hours. The property shall also be closed to the public when, in the opinion of the senior supervising official of any Bureau of the Mint establishment covered by these regulations, or his delegate, an emergency situation exists, and at such other times as may be necessary for the orderly conduct of the Government's business. Admission to the property during periods when such property is closed to the public will be limited to authorized individuals who will be required to sign the register and/or display identification documents when requested by the guard.
§ 91.4
Preservation of property.
It shall be unlawful for any person without proper authority to wilfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property or any part thereof or any furnishings therein.
§ 91.5
Compliance with signs and directions.
Persons in and on the property shall comply with the instructions of uniformed Bureau of the Mint guards (U.S. Special Policemen), other authorized officials, and official signs of a prohibitory or directory nature.
§ 91.6
Nuisances.
The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, unwarranted loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or things, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. The throwing of any articles of any kind in, upon, or from the property and climbing upon any part thereof, is prohibited. The entry, without specific permission, upon any part of the property to which the public does not customarily have access, is prohibited.
§ 91.7
Gambling.
(a) Participating in games for money or other property, the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, the selling or purchasing of numbers tickets, or any other gambling in or on the property, is prohibited.
(b) Possession in or on the property of any numbers slip or ticket, record, notation, receipt, or other writing of a type ordinarily used in any illegal form of gambling such as a tip sheet or dream book, unless explained to the satisfaction of the head of the bureau or his delegate, shall be prima facie evidence that there is participation in an illegal form of gambling in or on such property.
[34 FR 503, Jan. 14, 1969, as amended at 36 FR 3523, Feb. 26, 1971]
§ 91.8
Alcoholic beverages, narcotics, hallucinogenic and dangerous drugs.
Entering or being on the property, or operating a motor vehicle thereon by a person under the influence of alcoholic beverages, narcotics, hallucinogenic or dangerous drugs is prohibited. The use of any narcotic, hallucinogenic or dangerous drug in or on the property is prohibited. The use of alcoholic beverages in or on the property is prohibited except on occasions and on property upon which the Director of the Mint has for appropriate official uses granted and exemption permit in writing.
[38 FR 24898, Sept. 11, 1973]
§ 91.9
Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills.
The unauthorized soliciting of alms and contributions, the commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts, in or on the property, is prohibited. This rule does not apply to Bureau of the Mint concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval from the Director of the Mint, or the delegate of the Director.
§ 91.10
Photographs.
The taking of photographs on the property is prohibited, without the written permission of the Director of the Mint.
§ 91.11
Dogs and other animals.
Dogs and other animals, except seeing-eye dogs, shall not be brought upon the property for other than official purposes.
§ 91.12
Vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(a) Drivers of all vehicles in or on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of guards and all posted traffic signs.
(b) The blocking of entrances, driveways, walks, loading platforms, or fire hydrants in or on the property is prohibited.
(c) Parking in or on the property is not allowed without a permit or specific authority. Parking without authority, parking in unauthorized locations or in locations reserved for other persons or continuously in excess of 8 hours without permission, or contrary to the direction of a uniformed Bureau of the Mint guard, or of posted signs, is prohibited.
(d) This paragraph may be supplemented from time to time with the approval of the Director of the Mint, or the delegate of the Director, by the issuance and posting of such specific traffic directives as may be required and when so issued and posted such directives shall have the same force and effect as if made a part hereof.
§ 91.13
Weapons and explosives.
No person while on the property shall carry firearms, other dangerous or deadly weapons, or explosives, either openly or concealed, except for official purposes.
§ 91.14
Penalties and other law.
Whoever shall be found guilty of violating any of the regulations in this part while on the property is subject to a fine of not more than $50, or imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both (40 U.S.C. 318c). Nothing contained in the regulations in this part shall be construed to abrogate any other Federal laws or regulations or those of any State or municipality applicable to the property referred to in § 91.2 and governed by the regulations in this part.
Pt. 92

# PART 92—UNITED STATES MINT OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—Numismatic Operations
Sec.
92.1
Manufacture of medals.
92.2
Sale of “list” medals.
92.3
Manufacture and sale of “proof” coins.
92.4
Uncirculated Mint Sets.

# Subpart B—Availability of Records
92.5
Procedure governing availability of Bureau of the Mint records.
92.6
Appeal.

# Subpart C—Assessment of Civil Penalties for Misuse of Words, Letters, Symbols, or Emblems of the United States Mint
92.11
Purpose.
92.12
Definitions.
92.13
Assessment of civil penalties.
92.14
Initiation of action.
92.15
Initial notice of assessment.
92.16
Written response.
92.17
Final action.
92.18
Judicial review.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 31 U.S.C. 321 and 333.

# Source:
47 FR 56353, Dec. 16, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Numismatic Operations
§ 92.1
Manufacture of medals.
With the approval of the Director of the Mint, dies for medals of a national character designated by Congress may be executed at the Philadelphia Mint, and struck in such field office of the Mints and Assay Offices as the Director shall designate.
§ 92.2
Sale of “list” medals.
Medals on the regular Mint list, when available, are sold to the public at a charge sufficient to cover their cost, and to include mailing cost when mailed. Copies of the list of medals available for sale and their selling prices may be obtained from the Director of the Mint, Washington, DC.
§ 92.3
Manufacture and sale of “proof” coins.
“Proof” coins,
i.e.
, coins prepared from blanks specially polished and struck, are made as authorized by the Director of the Mint and are sold at a price sufficient to cover their face value plus the additional expense of their manufacture and sale. Their manufacture and issuance are contingent upon the demands of regular operations. Information concerning availability and price may be obtained from the Director of the Mint, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220.
§ 92.4
Uncirculated Mint Sets.
Uncirculated Mint Sets,
i.e.
, specially packaged coin sets containing one coin of each denomination struck at the Mints at Philadelphia and Denver, and the Assay Office at San Francisco, will be made as authorized by the Director of the Mint and will be sold at a price sufficient to cover their face value plus the additional expense of their processing and sale. Their manufacture and issuance are contingent upon demands of regular operations. Information concerning availability and price may be obtained from the Director of the Mint, Treasury Department, Washington, DC 20220.

# Subpart B—Availability of Records
§ 92.5
Procedure governing availability of Bureau of the Mint records.
(a)
Regulations of the Office of the Secretary adopted.
The regulations on the Disclosure of Records of the Office of the Secretary and other bureaus and offices of the Department issued under 5 U.S.C. 301 and 552 and published as part 1 of this title, 32 FR No. 127, July 1, 1967, except for § 1.7 of this title entitled “Appeal,” shall govern the availability of Bureau of the Mint records.
(b)
Determination of availability.
The Director of the Mint delegates authority to the following Mint officials to determine, in accordance with part 1 of this title, which of the records or information requested is available, subject to the appeal provided in § 92.6: The Deputy Director of the Mint, Division Heads in the Office of the Director, and the Superintendent or Officer in Charge of the field office where the record is located.
(c)
Requests for identifiable records.
A written request for an identifiable record shall be addressed to the Director of the Mint, Washington, DC 20220. A request presented in person shall be made in the public reading room of the Treasury Department, 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC, or in such other office designated by the Director of the Mint.
§ 92.6
Appeal.
Any person denied access to records requested under § 92.5 may file an appeal to the Director of the Mint within 30 days after notification of such denial. The appeal shall provide the name
and address of the appellant, the identification of the record denied, and the date of the original request and its denial.

# Subpart C—Assessment of Civil Penalties for Misuse of Words, Letters, Symbols, or Emblems of the United States Mint

# Source:
72 FR 60776, Oct. 26, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 92.11
Purpose.
(a) The procedures in this subpart implement the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 333(c), which authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to assess a civil penalty against any person who has misused the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges of the United States Mint in violation of 31 U.S.C. 333(a).
(b) The procedures in this subpart do not apply to the extent that the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the United States Mint, or their authorized designees have specifically granted to the person express permission, in writing, to manufacture, produce, sell, possess, or use the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges in a contract, agreement, license, letter, memorandum, or similar document.
(c) The procedures in this subpart are limited to actions initiated by the United States Mint to enforce the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 333. The procedures herein do not affect the provisions of 31 CFR part 27. Therefore, this subpart shall not be construed as the exclusive means for the Secretary of the Treasury to enforce 31 U.S.C. 333 insofar as a covered misuse affects the United States Mint.
§ 92.12
Definitions.
(a)
Assessing official
means the Director of the United States Mint or his designee.
(b)
Examining official
means an employee of the United States Mint appointed by the Director of the United States Mint (or an employee of the Treasury Department appointed by the Director of the United States Mint with the concurrence of the head of that employee's organization), to administer the procedures in this subpart in a particular case and to propose findings and recommendations in that case to the assessing official. The examining official must be:
(1) An employee of the Treasury Department in the grade of GS-15 or higher; and
(2) Capable of examining the matter without actual or apparent conflict of interest.
(c)
Broadcast
or
telecast
means widespread dissemination by electronic transmission or method, whether audio and/or visual.
(d)
Civil penalty
means a civil monetary penalty
(e)
Date of offense
means the later of:
(1) The date that the misuse occurred;
(2) The date that the misuse had the effect of conveying the false impression that the activity was associated with or approved, endorsed, sponsored or authorized by the United States Mint or its officers or employees; or
(3) If the violation is a continuing one, the date on which the misuse of the words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges protected by 31 U.S.C. 333 or the procedures in this subpart last occurred.
(f)
Days
means calendar days, unless otherwise stated.
(g)
Person
means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, company, business, firm, manufacturer, or any other organization, entity, or institution.
(h)
Respondent
means a person named in an Initial Notice of Assessment.
(i)
Symbol
means any design or graphic used by the United States Mint or the Treasury Department to represent themselves or their products. A design or graphic may include
(1) A trademark, designation of origin, or mark of identification, or
(2) A stylized depiction comprising letters, words, or numbers.
§ 92.13
Assessment of civil penalties.
(a)
General rule.
The assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person when the following two conditions are met:
(1) That person uses in connection with, or as a part of, any advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product, whether alone or with other words, letters, symbols, or emblems—
(i) The words “Department of the Treasury,” “United States Mint,” or “U.S. Mint”;
(ii) The titles “Secretary of the Treasury,” “Treasurer of the United States,” “Director of the United States Mint,” or “Director of the U.S. Mint”;
(iii) The abbreviations or initials of any entity or title referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section;
(iv) Any symbol, emblem, seal, or badge of an entity referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section (including the design of any envelope, stationery, or identification card used by such an entity); or
(v) Any colorable imitation of any such words, titles, abbreviations, initials, symbols, emblems, seals, or badges; and
(2) That person's use is in a manner that could reasonably be interpreted or construed as conveying the false impression that such advertisement, solicitation, business activity, or product is in any manner approved, endorsed, sponsored, authorized by, or associated with the United States Mint, or any officer, or employee thereof.
(b)
Disclaimers.
Any determination of whether a person has violated the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall be made without regard to any use of a disclaimer of affiliation with the United States Government or any particular agency or instrumentality thereof.
(c)
Civil penalty.
The assessing official may impose a civil penalty on any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of a civil penalty shall not exceed $5,000 for each and every use of any material in violation of paragraph (a) of this section, except that such penalty shall not exceed $25,000 for each and every use if such use is in a broadcast or telecast.
(d)
Time limitations.
(1) Civil penalties imposed under the procedures in this subpart must be assessed before the end of the three-year period beginning on the date of offense.
(2) The assessing official may commence a civil action to recover or enforce any civil penalty imposed in a Final Notice of Assessment issued pursuant to § 92.17 at any time before the end of the two-year period beginning on the date of the Final Notice of Assessment. If judicial review of the Final Notice of Assessment is sought, the two-year period begins to run from the date that a final and unappealable court order is issued.
(e)
Criminal Proceeding.
No civil penalty may be imposed under the procedures in this subpart with respect to any violation of paragraph (a) of this section after a criminal proceeding on the same violation has been commenced by indictment or information under 31 U.S.C. 333(d).
§ 92.14
Initiation of action.
(a) When an employee of the United States Mint learns of or discovers a potential violation of 31 U.S.C. 333 or this subpart, he or she will refer the matter, with all available evidence, to the assessing official.
(b) The assessing official will consider relevant factors when determining whether to initiate an action to impose a civil penalty under the procedures in this subpart. Those factors may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) The scope of the misuse;
(2) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;
(3) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;
(4) The circumstances of the misuse;
(5) The commercial benefit intended to be derived from the misuse; and
(6) The repeated nature of the misuse.
(c) If the assessing official decides to initiate an action to impose a civil penalty under the procedures in this subpart, he or she will, in writing:
(1) Appoint an examining official; and
(2) Delegate to the examining official the authority to prepare, sign, and serve an Initial Notice of Assessment on behalf of the assessing official.
§ 92.15
Initial notice of assessment.
The examining official shall review all immediately available evidence on
the matter; determine a proposed civil penalty based on the factors listed under § 92.16(d)(2)(iii); and prepare and serve an Initial Notice of Assessment by United States mail or other means upon the person believed to be in violation of § 92.13 and otherwise subject to a civil penalty. The notice shall provide the name and telephone number of the examining official, who can provide information concerning the notice and the procedures in this subpart. The notice shall include the following:
(a) A specific reference to the provisions of § 92.13 violated;
(b) A concise statement of the facts that support the conclusion that such a violation occurred;
(c) The amount of the civil penalty proposed and the maximum amount of the potential civil penalty that the assessing official could impose;
(d) A notice informing the person alleged to be in violation of § 92.13 that he or she:
(1) May, within 30 days of the date of the notice, pay the proposed civil penalty, thereby waiving the right to make a written response under § 92.16 and to seek judicial review under § 92.18:
(i) By electronic funds transfer (EFT) in accordance with instructions provided by the examining official in the Initial Notice of Assessment; or
(ii) By means other than EFT only with the written approval of the assessing official;
(2) May make a written response in accordance with § 92.16 within 30 days of the date of the notice addressing, as appropriate:
(i) Why a civil penalty should not be imposed; and
(ii) Why a civil penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed.
(3) May be represented by an attorney or other representative, provided that a designation of representative signed by the person alleged to be in violation is received by the examining official; and
(4) May request, within 20 days of the date of the notice, a copy of or opportunity to review any documents and/or other evidence that the United States Mint compiled and relied on in determining to issue the notice (the assessing official reserves the right to assert privileges available under law and may decline to disclose certain documents and/or other evidence protected by such privileges; however, any documents or other evidence withheld from disclosure shall be expunged from the record and shall not be considered by the examining and assessing officials in arriving at their respective recommendations and decisions); and
(e) An advisement of the following:
(1) If no written response is received within the time allowed in § 92.16(b), a Final Notice of Assessment may be issued without a presentation by the person;
(2) If a written response has been made and the examining official deems it necessary, the examining official may request, orally or in writing, additional information from the respondent;
(3) A Final Notice of Assessment may be issued in accordance with § 92.17 requiring that the proposed civil penalty be paid;
(4) A Final Notice of Assessment is subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.;
and
(5) All submissions sent in response to the Initial Notice of Assessment must be transmitted to the address specified in the notice and include the name, address, and telephone number of the respondent.
§ 92.16
Written response.
(a)
Form and contents.
(1) The written response submitted by a person pursuant to § 92.15(d)(2) must provide the following:
(i) A reference to and specific identification of the Initial Notice of Assessment involved;
(ii) The full name of the person against whom the Initial Notice of Assessment has been made;
(iii) If the respondent is not a natural person, the name and title of the officer authorized to act on behalf of the respondent; and
(iv) If a representative of the person named in the Initial Notice of Assessment is filing the written response, a copy of the duly executed designation as representative.
(2) The written response must admit or deny each violation of § 92.13 set
forth in the Initial Notice of Assessment. Any violation not specifically denied will be presumed to be admitted. Where a violation is denied, the respondent shall specifically set forth the legal or factual basis upon which the allegation is denied. If the basis of the written response is that the respondent is not the person responsible for the alleged violation, the written response must set forth sufficient information to allow the examining and assessing officials to determine the truth of such an assertion. The written response should include any and all documents and other information that the respondent believes should be a part of the administrative record on the matter.
(b)
Time.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, any written response made under this section must be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment.
(2) If a request for documents or other evidence is made pursuant to § 92.15(d)(4), the written response must be submitted not later than 20 days after the date of the United States Mint's response to the request.
(3)(i) In computing the number of days allowed for filing a written response under this paragraph, the first day counted is the day after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment is issued. If the last date on which the response is required to be filed by this paragraph is a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday, the response will be due on the next business day after that date.
(ii) If a response is transmitted by United States mail, it will be deemed timely filed if postmarked on or before the due date.
(4) The examining official may extend the period for making a written response under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section for up to ten days for good cause shown. Requests for extensions beyond ten days must be approved by the assessing official and must be based on good cause shown. Generally, failure to obtain representation in a timely manner will not be considered good cause.
(c)
Filing.
The response may be sent by personal delivery, United States mail or commercial delivery. A written response transmitted by means other than United States mail will be considered filed on the date received at the address specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment.
(d)
Review and Recommendation.
The examining official will fully consider the facts and arguments submitted by the respondent in the written response, any other documents filed by the respondent pursuant to this subpart, and the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter. If the respondent waives the right to submit a written response in accordance with § 92.15(d)(1), or declines to submit a written response by the end of the 30-day response period, the examining official will fully consider the evidence in the United States Mint's record on the matter.
(1) In fully considering the matter, the examining official will not consider any evidence introduced into the record by the United States Mint after the date of the Initial Notice of Assessment unless and until the respondent has been notified that such additional evidence will be considered, and has had an opportunity to request, review and comment on such evidence.
(2) The examining official will prepare a concise report, addressed to the assessing official, which will contain the following:
(i) The entire administrative record on the matter, including all information provided in or with a written response timely filed by the respondent and any additional information provided pursuant to § 92.15(e)(2), as well as all evidence upon which the Initial Notice of Assessment was based, and any additional evidence as provided for in § 92.16(d)(1).
(ii) A finding, based on the preponderance of the evidence, as to each alleged violation specified in the Initial Notice of Assessment;
(iii) For each violation that the examining official determines to have occurred, a recommendation as to the appropriate amount of a civil penalty to be imposed which, upon additional consideration of the evidence, may be the same as, more than, or less than the amount initially proposed by the examining official pursuant to § 92.15. In
making this recommendation, the examining official will consider all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the following:
(A) The scope of the misuse;
(B) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;
(C) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;
(D) The circumstances of the misuse;
(E) The commercial benefit intended to be derived from the misuse; and
(F) The repeated nature of the misuse.
(iv) If the examining official determines that a violation has occurred, a proposed Final Notice of Assessment that incorporates his or her findings and recommendations.
(v) Any additional information or considerations that the assessing officer should consider in a decision whether to issue a Final Notice of Assessment under § 92.17.
§ 92.17
Final action.
(a) In making a final determination whether to impose a penalty, the assessing official shall take into consideration the entire report prepared by the examining official. Although the assessing official should accord appropriate weight to the findings and recommendations of the examining official, the assessing official is not bound by them. The assessing official may approve, disapprove, modify, or substitute any or all of the examining official's findings and recommendations if, in his or her judgment, the evidence in the record supports such a decision. The assessing official will determine whether:
(1) The facts warrant a conclusion that no violation has occurred; or
(2)(i) The facts warrant a conclusion that one or more violations have occurred; and
(ii) The facts and violations found justify the conclusion that a civil penalty should be imposed.
(b) If the assessing official determines that no violation has occurred, the official shall promptly send a letter indicating that determination to the person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment and to any designated representative of such person.
(c) If the assessing official determines that a violation has occurred:
(1) The assessing official shall issue a Final Notice of Assessment to the person served with an Initial Notice of Assessment and to any designated representative of such person.
(2) The assessing official may, in his or her discretion:
(i) Impose a civil penalty;
(ii) Not impose a civil penalty; or
(iii) Impose a civil penalty and suspend the payment of all or some of the civil penalty, conditioned on the violator's future compliance with 31 U.S.C. 333.
(3) If a civil penalty is imposed under § 92.17(c)(2)(i) or (iii), the assessing official shall determine the appropriate amount of the penalty in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 333(c)(2). In determining the amount of a civil penalty, the assessing official will consider relevant factors including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) The scope of the misuse;
(ii) The purpose and/or nature of the misuse;
(iii) The extent of the harm caused by the misuse;
(iv) The circumstances of the misuse;
(v) The commercial benefit intended to be derived from the misuse; and
(vi) The repeated nature of the misuse.
(4) The Final Notice of Assessment shall:
(i) Include the following:
(A) A specific reference to each provision of § 92.13 found to have been violated;
(B) A concise statement of the facts supporting a conclusion that each violation has occurred;
(C) An analysis of how the facts and each violation justifies the conclusion that a civil penalty should be imposed; and
(D) The amount of each civil penalty imposed and a statement as to how the amount of each penalty was determined; and
(ii) Inform the person of the following:
(A) Payment of a civil penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment must be made within 30 days of the date of the notice;
(B) Payment of a civil penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment shall be paid by EFT in accordance with instructions provided in the notice, unless the assessing official has given written approval to have payment made by other means;
(C) If payment of a civil penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment has been suspended on the condition that the person comply in the future with 31 U.S.C. 333 and this subpart, the failure by the person to so comply will make the civil penalty payable on demand;
(D) If a civil penalty is not paid within 30 days of the date of the Final Notice of Assessment (or on demand under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D) of this section), a civil action to collect the penalty or enforce compliance may be commenced at any time within two years of the date of the Final Notice of Assessment; and
(E) Any civil penalty imposed by the Final Notice of Assessment may be subject to judicial review in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
§ 92.18
Judicial review.
A Final Notice of Assessment issued under the procedures in this subpart may be subject to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
Pt. 100

# PART 100—EXCHANGE OF PAPER CURRENCY AND COIN
Sec.
100.2
Scope of regulations; transactions effected through Federal Reserve banks and branches; distribution of coin and currencies.

# Subpart A—In General
100.3
Lawfully held coins and currencies in general.
100.4
Gold coin and gold certificates in general.

# Subpart B—Request for Examination of Mutilated Currency for Possible Redemption
100.5
Mutilated paper currency.
100.6
Destroyed paper currency.
100.7
Treasury's redemption process.
100.8
Packaging and shipping of mutilated currency.
100.9
Notices.

# Subpart C—Request for Examination of Coin for Possible Redemption
100.10
Request for examination of uncurrent coin for possible redemption.
100.11
[Reserved]
100.12
Exchange of fused or mixed coin.
100.13
Notices.

# Subpart D—Other Information
100.16
Exchange of paper and coin to be handled through Federal Reserve banks and branches.
100.17
Location of Federal Reserve banks and branches.
100.18
Counterfeit notes to be marked; “redemption” of notes wrongfully so marked.
100.19
Disposition of counterfeit notes and coins.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321.

# Source:
47 FR 32044, July 23, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.2
Scope of regulations; transactions effected through Federal Reserve banks and branches; distribution of coin and currencies.
(a) The regulations in this part govern the exchange of the coin and paper currency of the United States (including national bank notes and Federal Reserve bank notes in process of retirement and Federal Reserve notes). Under authorization in the Act approved May 29, 1920, 41 Stat. 655 (31 U.S.C. 476), the Secretary of the Treasury transferred to the Federal Reserve banks and branches the duties and functions performed by the former Assistant Treasurers of the United States in connection with the exchange of paper currency and coin of the United States. Except for the duties in this respect to be performed by the Treasurer of the United States and the Director of the Mint, as may be indicated from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury, exchanges of the paper currency and coin of the United States and the distribution and replacement thereof will, so far as practicable, be effected through the Federal Reserve banks and branches. The Federal Reserve banks and branches are authorized to distribute available supplies of coin and currency to depository institutions, as that term is defined in section 103 of the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-221). As authorized by section 107 of the Act, transportation
of coin and currency and coin wrapping services will be provided according to a schedule of fees established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Inquiries by depository institutions regarding distribution and related services should be addressed to the Federal Reserve bank of the district where the institution is located.
(b) The Department of the Treasury has authorized amendments to this part by the following bureaus and offices:
(1) This section—Office of the Secretary.
(2) Subpart A—Office of the Secretary.
(3) Subpart B—Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
(4) Subpart C—United States Mint.
(5) Subpart D—Office of the Secretary.
[47 FR 32044, July 23, 1982, as amended at 82 FR 60310, Dec. 20, 2017]

# Subpart A—In General
§ 100.3
Lawfully held coin and currencies in general.
The official agencies of the Department of the Treasury will continue to exchange lawfully held coins and currencies of the United States, dollar for dollar, for other coins and currencies which may be lawfully acquired and are legal tender for public and private debts. Paper currency of the United States which has been falsely altered and coins altered to render them for use as other denominations will not be redeemed since such currency and coins are subject to forfeiture under Title 18, United States Code, section 492. Persons receiving such currency and coins should notify immediately the nearest local office of the U.S. Secret Service of the Department of the Treasury, and hold the same pending advice from the Service.
§ 100.4
Gold coin and gold certificates in general.
Gold coins, and gold certificates of the type issued before January 30, 1934, are exchangeable, as provided in this part, into other currency or coin which may be lawfully issued.

# Subpart B—Request for Examination of Mutilated Currency for Possible Redemption

# Source:
79 FR 30725, May 29, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.5
Mutilated paper currency.
(a)
General.
Lawfully held mutilated paper currency of the United States may be submitted for examination in accord with the provisions in this subpart. Such currency may be redeemed at face amount if sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature and clearly more than one-half of the original note remains. Fragments of such mutilated currency which are not clearly more than one-half of the original whole note or are lacking sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature will be redeemed at face value only if the Director, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury, is satisfied that the missing portions have been totally destroyed. The Director's judgment shall be based on such evidence of total destruction as is necessary and shall be final. Any submission under this subpart shall be deemed an acceptance of all provisions contained herein.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions are used in this subpart:
Mutilated currency
is currency which has been damaged to the extent that:
(i) One-half or less of the original note remains; or
(ii) Its condition is such that its value is questionable and the currency must be forwarded to the Department of the Treasury for the examination by trained experts before any redemption is made.
Unfit currency
is currency which is unfit for further circulation because of its physical condition such as torn, dirty, limp, worn or defaced. Unfit currency should not be forwarded to the Department of the Treasury, but may be exchanged at commercial banks.
§ 100.6
Destroyed paper currency.
No relief will be granted on account of lawfully held paper currency which has been totally destroyed.
§ 100.7
Treasury's redemption process.
(a) Lawful holders of mutilated currency may receive a redemption at full value when:
(1) Clearly more than 50% of a note identifiable as United States currency is present along with sufficient remnants of any relevant security feature; or
(2) Fifty percent or less of a note identifiable as United States currency is present and the method of mutilation and supporting evidence demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Treasury that the missing portions have been totally destroyed.
(b) No redemption will be made when:
(1) A submission, or any portion thereof, demonstrates a pattern of intentional mutilation or an attempt to defraud the United States. In such instances, the entire submission will be destroyed or retained as evidence.
(2) A submission appears to be part of, or intended to further, any criminal scheme. In such instances, the entire submission will be destroyed or retained as evidence.
(3) A submission contains a material misrepresentation of facts.
(4) Fragments and remnants presented are not identifiable as United States currency; or
(5) Fragments and remnants presented which represent 50% or less of a note are identifiable as United States currency but the method of destruction and supporting evidence do not satisfy the Treasury that the missing portion has been totally destroyed.
(c) Lawfully held mutilated currency in a submission that also contains counterfeit currency may be destroyed or retained as evidence, at the discretion of the Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
(d) All cases will be handled under proper procedures to safeguard the funds and interests of the submitter of lawfully held mutilated currency. In some cases, the amount redeemed will be less than the amount estimated by the submitter. In other cases, the amount redeemed may be greater. The amount redeemed will be determined by an examination made by trained mutilated currency examiners and governed by the above criteria.
(e) The Director of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing shall have final authority with respect to redemptions of mutilated currency submissions.
(f) All submissions for review shall include an estimate of the value of the currency and an explanation of how it came to be mutilated. The submission should also contain the bank account number and routing number for an account of a United States bank since all redemptions of $500 or more shall be made through Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).
§ 100.8
Packaging and shipping of mutilated currency.
Mutilated currency examiners are best able to determine the value of the currency when it has been carefully packed and boxed as described below. As a result, failure to follow the directions in this section may result in a denial of redemption:
(a) Regardless of the condition of the currency, do not disturb the fragments more than is absolutely necessary.
(b) If the currency is brittle or inclined to fall apart, pack it carefully in cotton and box it as found, without disturbing the fragments, if possible.
(c) If the currency was in a purse, box, or other container when mutilated, it should be left therein, if possible, in order to prevent further deterioration of the fragments or from their being lost.
(d) If it is absolutely necessary to remove the fragments from the container, send the container with the currency and any other contents found, except as noted in paragraph (g) of this section.
(e) If the currency was flat when mutilated, do not roll, fold, laminate, tape, glue or in any other way alter the currency in an attempt to preserve it.
(f) If the currency was in a roll when mutilated, do not attempt to unroll or straighten.
(g) If coin or any other metal is mixed with the currency, remove carefully. Do not send coin or other metal in the same package with mutilated paper currency, as the metal will break up the currency. Coin should be exchanged in accordance with subpart C of this part.
(h) Mutilated currency shipments must be addressed as follows:
(1) USPS Delivery—Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, MCD/OFM, Room 344A, Post Office Box 37048, Washington, DC 20013.
(2) Non Postal Courier (FEDEX/UPS)—Department of the Treasury, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, MCD/OFM, Room 344-A, 14th
C Streets SW., Washington, DC 20228.
§ 100.9
Notices.
(a) The Director may provide information pertaining to any mutilated currency submission to law enforcement officials or other third parties for purposes of investigation of related criminal activity or for purposes of seeking a civil judgment.
(b) Whoever mutilates currency with the intent to render it unfit to be reissued may be fined and/or imprisoned. 18 U.S.C. 333.
(c) Whoever intentionally files a false claim seeking reimbursement for mutilated currency may be held criminally liable under a number of statutes including 18 U.S.C. 287 and 18 U.S.C. 1341 and may be held civilly liable under 31 U.S.C. 3729,
et seq.

# Subpart C—Request for Examination of Coin for Possible Redemption

# Source:
82 FR 60311, Dec. 20, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.10
Request for examination of uncurrent coin for possible redemption.
(a)
Definition.
Uncurrent coins are whole U.S. coins which are merely worn or reduced in weight by natural abrasion yet are readily and clearly recognizable as to genuineness and denomination and which are machine countable.
(b)
Redemption process.
The United States Mint will not accept uncurrent coins for redemption. Members of the public wishing to redeem lawfully held uncurrent coins must deposit the uncurrent coins with a bank or other financial institution that will accept them, or with a depository institution that has established a direct customer relationship with a Federal Reserve Bank. A Federal Reserve Bank will redeem uncurrent coins, based on the policies described in the Federal Reserve's Operating Circular 2.
(c)
Criteria for acceptance.
Depository institutions that redeem uncurrent coins must sort the coins by denomination into packages in accordance with the Federal Reserve's Operating Circular 2. The Federal Reserve Banks have the right to reject any shipment containing objects that are not U.S. coins or any contaminant that could render the uncurrent coins unsuitable for coinage metal.
(d)
Redemption sites.
The Federal Reserve Banks and branches listed in § 100.17 are the only authorized redemption sites at which a depository institution that has established a direct customer relationship with a Federal Reserve Bank may redeem uncurrent coins.
§ 100.11
]Reserved]
§ 100.12
Exchange of fused or mixed coin.
(a)
Definitions.
(1) Fused coins are U.S. coins which are melted to the extent that they are bonded together.
(2) Mixed coins are U.S. coins of several alloy categories which are presented together, but are readily and clearly identifiable as U.S. coins.
(b)
Fused and mixed coins.
The United States Mint will not accept fused or mixed coins for redemption.
[82 FR 60311, Dec. 20, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 78245, Sept. 25, 2024]
§ 100.13
Notices.
(a) Criminal penalties connected with the defacement or mutilation of U.S. coins are provided in 18 U.S.C. 331.
(b) The Director of the United States Mint may provide information pertaining coin submissions to law enforcement officials or other third parties for purposes of investigating related criminal activity or for purposes of seeking a civil judgment.
(c) Whoever intentionally files a false claim seeking reimbursement for uncurrent, bent or partial coins may be held criminally liable under a number of statutes including 18 U.S.C. 287 and
18 U.S.C. 1341 and may be held civilly liable under 31 U.S.C. 3729,
et seq.
[82 FR 60311, Dec. 20, 2017, as amended at 89 FR 78245, Sept. 25, 2024]

# Subpart D—Other Information
§ 100.16
Exchange of paper and coin to be handled through Federal Reserve banks and branches.
Other than as provided in this document all transactions including the exchange of paper currency and coin shall be handled through the Federal Reserve banks and branches.
§ 100.17
Location of Federal Reserve banks and branches.

# Federal Reserve Bank and Address
Boston—600 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, MA 02106
New York—33 Liberty Street (Federal Reserve P.O. Station), New York, NY 10045
Buffalo Branch—160 Delaware Avenue (P.O. Box 961), Buffalo, NY 14240
Philadelphia—Ten Independence Mall (P.O. Box 66), Philadelphia, PA 19105
Cleveland—1455 East Sixth Street (P.O. Box 6387), Cleveland, OH 44101
Cincinnati Branch—150 East Fourth Street (P.O. Box 999), Cincinnati, OH 45201
Pittsburgh Branch—717 Grant Street (P.O. Box 867), Pittsburgh, PA 15230
Richmond—701 East Byrd Avenue (P.O. Box 27622), Richmond, VA 23261
Baltimore Branch—114-120 East Lexington Street (P.O. Box 1378), Baltimore, MD 21203
Charlotte Branch—530 East Trade Street (P.O. Box 30248), Charlotte, NC 28230
Atlanta—104 Marietta Street, NW., Atlanta, GA 30303
Birmingham Branch—1801 Fifth Avenue, North (P.O. Box 830447), Birmingham, AL 35283-0447
Jacksonville Branch—800 Water Street (P.O. Box 929) Jacksonville, FL 32231-0044
Miami Branch—9100 NW., 36th Street (P.O. Box 520847), Miami, FL 33152
Nashville Branch—301 Eighth Avenue, North, Nashville, TN 37203
New Orleans Branch—525 St. Charles Avenue (P.O. Box 61630), New Orleans, LA 70161
Chicago—230 South LaSalle Street (P.O. Box 834), Chicago, IL 60690
Detroit Branch—160 Fort Street, West (P.O. Box 1059), Detroit, MI 48231
St. Louis—411 Locust Street (P.O. Box 442), St. Louis, MO 63166
Little Rock Branch—325 West Capitol Avenue (P.O. Box 1261), Little Rock, AR 72203
Louisville Branch—410 South Fifth Street (P.O. Box 32710), Louisville, KY 40232
Memphis Branch—200 North Main Street (P.O. Box 407), Memphis, TN 38101
Minneapolis—250 Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, MN 55480
Helena Branch—400 North Park Avenue, Helena, MT 59601
Kansas City—925 Grand Avenue (Federal Reserve Station), Kansas City, MO 64198
Denver Branch—1020 16th Street (P.O. Box 5228, Terminal Annex), Denver, CO 80217
Oklahoma City Branch—226 Dean A. McGee Street (P.O. Box 25129), Oklahoma City, OK 73125
Omaha Branch—2201 Farnam Street (P.O. Box 3958), Omaha, NB 68103
Dallas—400 South Akard Street (Station K), Dallas, TX 75222
El Paso Branch—301 East Main Street (P.O. Box 100), El Paso, TX 79999
Houston Branch—1701 San Jacinto Street (P.O. Box 2578), Houston, TX 77001
San Antonio Branch—126 East Nueva Street (P.O. Box 1471), San Antonio, TX 78295
San Francisco—400 Sansome Street (P.O. Box 7702), San Francisco, CA 94120
Los Angeles Branch—950 South Grand Avenue (Terminal Annex, P.O. Box 2077), Los Angeles CA 90051
Portland Branch—915 SW Stark Street (P.O. Box 3436), Portland, OR 97208
Salt Lake City Branch—120 South State Street (P.O. Box 30780), Salt Lake City, UT 84125
Seattle Branch—1015 Second Avenue (P.O. Box 3567), Seattle, WA 98124
[47 FR 32044, July 23, 1982, as amended at 56 FR 10170, Mar. 11, 1991]
§ 100.18
Counterfeit notes to be marked; “redemption” of notes wrongfully so marked.
The Act of June 30, 1876 (19 Stat. 4; 31 U.S.C. 424), provides that all U.S. Officers charged with the receipt or disbursement of public moneys, and all officers of national banks, shall stamp or write in plain letters the word “counterfeit,” “altered,” or “worthless” upon all fraudulent notes issued in the form of, and intended to circulate as money, which shall be presented at their places of business; and if such officers shall wrongfully stamp any genuine note of the United States, or of the national bank, they shall, upon presentation, “redeem” such notes at the face amount thereof.
§ 100.19
Disposition of counterfeit notes and coins.
All counterfeit notes and coin found in remittances are cancelled and delivered to the U.S. Secret Service of the
Department of the Treasury or to the nearest local office of that Service, a receipt for the same being forwarded to the sender. Communications with respect thereto should be addressed to the Director, U.S. Secret Service, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20223.
Pt. 101

# PART 101—MITIGATION OF FORFEITURE OF COUNTERFEIT GOLD COINS
Sec.
101.1
Purpose and scope.
101.2
Petitions for mitigation.
101.3
Petitions reviewed by Assistant Secretary, Enforcement, Operations, Tariff Affairs.
101.4
Extraction of gold bullion from the counterfeit coins.
101.5
Payment of smelting costs.
101.6
Return of the bullion.
101.7
Exceptions.
101.8
Discretion of the Secretary.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 492.

# Source:
42 FR 1472, Jan. 7, 1977, unless otherwise noted.
§ 101.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part is to establish a policy whereby certain purchasers or holders of gold coins who have forfeited them to the United States because they were counterfeit may, in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, recover the gold bullion from the coins. This part sets forth the procedures to be followed in implementing this policy.
§ 101.2
Petitions for mitigation.
(a)
Who may file.
Any person may petition the Secretary of the Treasury for return of the gold bullion of counterfeit gold coins forfeited to the United States, if:
(1) The petitioner innocently purchased or received the coins and held them without the knowledge that they were counterfeit; and,
(2) The petitioner voluntarily submitted the coins to the Treasury Department for a determination of whether they were legitimate or counterfeit; and,
(3) The coins were determined to be counterfeit and were seized by the Treasury Department and forfeited to the United States.
(b)
To whom addressed.
Petitions for mitigation of the forfeiture of counterfeit gold coins should be addressed to the Assistant Secretary, Enforcement, Operations, Tariff Affairs, Department of Treasury, 15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220.
(c)
Form.
The petition need not be in any particular form, but must be under oath, and set forth at least the following:
(1) The full name and address of the petitioner;
(2) A description of the coin or coins involved;
(3) The name and address of the person from whom the coins were received or purchased by the petitioner;
(4) The date and place where they were voluntarily submitted for examination;
(5) Any other circumstances relied upon by the petitioner to justify the mitigation;
(6) A statement that the petitioner purchased or received and held the coins without the knowledge that they were counterfeit.
§ 101.3
Petitions reviewed by Assistant Secretary, Enforcement, Operations, Tariff Affairs.
(a) The Assistant Secretary will receive and review all petitions for mitigation of the forfeiture of counterfeit gold coins. He shall conduct such further investigation, and may request such further information from the petitioner as he deems necessary. Petitions will be approved if the Assistant Secretary determines that:
(1) The gold coins have not been previously disposed of by normal procedures;
(2) The petitioner was an innocent purchaser or holder of the gold coins and is not under investigation in connection with the coins at the time of submission or thereafter;
(3) The coins are not needed and will not be needed in the future in any investigation or as evidence in legal proceedings; and
(4) Mitigation of the forfeiture is in the best interest of the Government.
§ 101.4
Extraction of gold bullion from the counterfeit coins.
If the petition is approved, the Assistant Secretary shall then forward the gold coins to the Bureau of the Mint where, if economically feasible, the gold bullion will be extracted from the counterfeit coins. The Bureau of the Mint will then return the bullion to the Assistant Secretary.
§ 101.5
Payment of smelting costs.
The petitioner shall be required to pay all reasonable costs incurred in extracting the bullion from the counterfeit coins, as shall be determined by the Assistant Secretary. Payment must be made prior to the return of the gold bullion to the petitioner.
§ 101.6
Return of the bullion.
After receiving the gold bullion from the Bureau of the Mint, the Assistant Secretary shall notify the petitioner that his petition has been approved and that payment of the smelting costs in an amount set forth in such notice must be made prior to the return of the bullion.
§ 101.7
Exceptions.
The provisions of this part shall not apply where the cost of smelting the gold coins exceeds the value of the gold bullion to be returned.
§ 101.8
Discretion of the Secretary.
The Secretary of the Treasury retains complete discretion to deny any claim of any petitioner when the Secretary believes it is not in the best interest of the Government to return the bullion to the petitioner or when the Secretary is not convinced that the petitoner was an innocent purchaser or holder without knowledge that the gold coins were counterfeit.
PART 123 [RESERVED]
Pt. 128

# PART 128—REPORTING OF INTERNATIONAL CAPITAL AND FOREIGN-CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS AND POSITIONS

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
128.1
General reporting requirements.
128.2
Manner of reporting.
128.3
Use of information reported.
128.4
Penalties.
128.5
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Subpart B—Reports on International Capital Transactions and Positions
128.11
Purpose of reports.
128.12
Periodic reports.
128.13
Special survey reports.

# Subpart C—Reports on Foreign Currency Positions
128.21
Purpose of reports.
128.22
Periodic reports.
128.23
Special survey reports.
Appendix A to Part 128—Determination Made by National Advisory Council Pursuant to Section 2(
a
) and (
b
) of E.O. 10033

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 286f and 3101
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 5315 and 5321.

# Source:
58 FR 58495, Nov. 2, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information
§ 128.1
General reporting requirements.
(a)
International capital transactions and positions.
(1) In order to implement the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
); and E.O. 11961, and to obtain information requested by the International Monetary Fund under the articles of agreement of the Fund pursuant to section 8(a) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286f) and E.O. 10033, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are required to report information pertaining to—
(i) United States claims on, and liabilities to, foreigners;
(ii) Transactions in securities and other financial assets with foreigners; and
(iii) The monetary reserves of the United States.
(2) Data pertaining to direct investment transactions are not required to be reported under this part.
(3) Reports shall be made in such manner and at such intervals as specified by the Secretary of the Treasury. See subpart B of this part for additional requirements concerning these reports.
(b)
Foreign currency positions.
(1) In order to provide data on the nature and source of flows of mobile capital, including transactions by large United States business enterprises (as determined by the Secretary) and their foreign affiliates as required by 31 U.S.C. 5315, persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States are required to report information pertaining to—
(i) Transactions in foreign exchange;
(ii) Transfers of credit that are, in whole or part, denominated in a foreign currency; and
(iii) The creation or acquisition of claims that reference transactions, holdings, or evaluations of foreign exchange.
(2) Reports shall be made in such manner and at such intervals as specified by the Secretary. See subpart C of this part for additional requirements concerning these reports.
(c)
Notice of reports.
Notice of reports required by this part, specification of persons required to file report, and forms to be used to file reports will be published in the
Federal Register.
Persons currently required to file reports shall continue to file such reports using existing Treasury International Capital Forms BL-1/BL-1(SA), BL-2/BL-2(SA), BL-3, BC/BC(SA), BQ-1, BQ-2, CM, CQ-1, CQ-2, S, and existing Treasury Foreign Currency Forms FC-1, FC-2, FC-3, and FC-4 until further notice is published in the
Federal Register.
§ 128.2
Manner of reporting.
(a)
Methods of reporting
—(1)
Prescribed forms.
(i) Except as provided in § 128.2(a)(2), reports required by this part shall be made on forms prescribed by the Secretary. The forms and accompanying instructions will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).
(ii) Copies of forms and instructions prescribed by the Secretary for reporting under this Part may be obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank, or from the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220.
(2)
Alternative methods of reporting.
In lieu of reporting on forms prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to this part, reports may be filed on magnetic tape or other media acceptable to, and approved in writing by, the Federal Reserve district bank with which the report is filed, or by the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy) in the case of a special exception filing pursuant to § 128.2(b)(3). The Secretary may require that magnetic tape or other machine-readable media, or other rapid means of communication be used for filing special survey reports under subpart B or C of this part.
(b)
Filing of periodic reports
—(1)
Banks and other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, and bank holding companies.
Except as provided in § 128.2(b)(3), each bank, depository institution, International Banking Facility, and bank holding company in the United States required to file periodic reports under subpart B or C of this part shall file such reports with the Federal Reserve bank of the district in which such bank, depository institution, International Banking Facility or bank holding company has its principal place of business in the United States.
(2)
Nonbanking enterprises and other persons.
Except as provided in § 128.2(b)(3), nonbanking enterprises and other persons in the United States required to file periodic reports under subpart B or C of this part shall file such reports with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
(3)
Special exceptions.
If a respondent described in § 128.2(b)(1) or (2) is unable to file with a Federal Reserve district bank, such respondent shall file periodic reports with the Office of the Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy), Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220, or as otherwise provided in the instructions to the periodic report forms.
(c)
Filing of special survey reports.
All respondents required to file special survey reports under subpart B or C of this part file such reports as provided in § 128.2(b) unless otherwise provided in
the instructions to the special survey reports.
§ 128.3
Use of information reported.
(a) Except for use in violation and enforcement proceedings pursuant to the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act, 22 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.,
information submitted by any individual respondent on reports required under subpart B of this part may be used only for analytical and statistical purposes within the United States Government and will not be disclosed publicly by the Department of the Treasury, or by any other Federal agency or Federal Reserve district bank having access to the information as provided herein. Aggregate data derived from these forms may be published or otherwise publicly disclosed only in a manner which will not reveal the amounts reported by any individual respondent. The Department may furnish information from these forms to the Federal Reserve Board and to Federal agencies to the extent permitted by applicable law.
(b) The information submitted by any individual respondent on reports required under subpart C of this part will not be disclosed publicly. Aggregated data may be published or disclosed only in a manner which will not reveal the information reported by any individual respondent. The Department may furnish to Federal agencies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and to Federal Reserve district banks data reported pursuant to subpart C of this part to the extent permitted by applicable law.
§ 128.4
Penalties.
(a) Whoever fails to file a report required by subpart B of this part shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $2,500 and not more than $25,000
(b) Whoever willfully fails to file a report required by subpart B of this part may be criminally prosecuted and upon conviction fined not more than $10,000 and, if an individual (including any officer, director, employee, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation), may be imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(c) Whoever fails to file a report required by subpart C of this part shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $10,000.
§ 128.5
Recordkeeping requirements.
Banks, other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, bank holding companies, brokers and dealers, and nonbanking enterprises subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall maintain all information necessary to make a complete report pursuant to this Part for not less than three years from the date such report is required to be filed or was filed, whichever is later, or for such shorter period as may be specified in the instructions to the applicable report form.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1505-0149)

# Subpart B—Reports on International Capital Transactions and Positions
§ 128.11
Purpose of reports.
Reports on international capital transactions and positions provide timely and reliable information on international portfolio capital movements by U.S. persons. This information is needed for preparation of the capital accounts of the United States balance of payments and the international investment position of the United States.
§ 128.12
Periodic reports.
(a)
International capital positions.
(1) Banks and other depository institutions, International Banking Facilities, bank holding companies, and brokers and dealers in the United States shall file monthly, quarterly and semiannual reports with respect to specified claims and liabilities positions with foreigners held for their own account and for the accounts of their customers.
(2) Nonbanking enterprises in the United States not described in § 128.12(a)(1) shall file monthly and quarterly reports with respect to deposits and certificates of deposit with banks outside the United States and
specified claims and liabilities positions with unaffiliated foreigners.
(b)
Transactions in certain domestic and foreign long-term securities.
Banks and nonbanking enterprises in the United States shall file monthly reports on their transactions in domestic and foreign long-term securities or other financial assets with foreign residents.
(c)
Notice of periodic reports.
Notice of periodic reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).
§ 128.13
Special survey reports.
The Secretary may prescribe special survey reports at such times as the Secretary determines there is a need for detailed information on the aggregate data derived from current periodic reports or to provide additional qualitative information with respect to such data. Notice of special survey reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).

# Subpart C—Reports on Foreign Currency Positions
§ 128.21
Purpose of reports.
Reports by respondents on foreign currency positions provide data on the nature and source of flows of mobile capital, including transactions by large United States business enterprises (as determined by the Secretary) and their foreign affiliates as required by 31 U.S.C. 5315.
§ 128.22
Periodic reports.
Respondents shall file reports weekly, monthly and quarterly on the value of such items as outstanding foreign exchange contracts, dealing positions, derivative foreign currency instruments, and other assets and liabilities denominated in the currencies specified on the forms. Notice of periodic reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).
§ 128.23
Special survey reports.
The Secretary may prescribe special survey reports with respect to foreign exchange positions and related information at such times as the Secretary determines that there is a need for prompt or expanded information on current conditions in the foreign exchange markets. Notice of special survey reports will be published in accordance with § 128.1(c).
Pt. 128, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 128—Determination Made by National Advisory Council Pursuant to Section 2 (
a

# ) and (
b

# ) of E.O. 10033

# I. Determination of the National Advisory Council pursuant to E.O. 10033
In an action dated September 7, 1965, the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems made the following determination pursuant to section 2(a) of E.O. 10033 of February 8, 1949.
Action 65 (E.O.)-49.
The National Advisory Council, having consulted with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, determines the current information with respect to international capital movements, derived from data on U.S. liabilities to and claims on foreigners and transactions in securities with foreigners, and current information with respect to U.S. gold holdings, foreign-currency holdings, and dollar liabilities to foreigners, are essential in order that the United States may comply with official requests of the International Monetary Fund for information with respect to the U.S. balance of payments and monetary reserves.
Action No. 320, March 17, 1949 is superseded by this determination and is hereby revoked.
II. Designation of the Treasury Department by the Director of the Bureau of the Budget pursuant to section 2(b) of E.O. 10033.
On December 1, 1965, the Treasury Department was designated, pursuant to section 2(b) of E.O. 10033 of February 8, 1949, to collect information for the International Monetary Fund under the National Advisory Council determination of September 7, 1965. The letter containing the designation reads as follows:

# December 1, 1965.
Hon. Henry H. Fowler,
Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, DC 20220.
Dear Mr. Secretary: On September 7, 1965, the National Advisory Council after consultation with this Bureau in accordance with section 2(a) of Executive Order 10033, made the following determination (Action 65 (E.O.)-49:
“The National Advisory Council, having consulted with the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, determines that current information with respect to international capital movements, derived from data on U.S. liabilities to claims on foreigners and transactions in securities with foreigners, and current information with respect to U.S. gold holdings, foreign-currency holdings, and
dollar liabilities to foreigners, are essential in order that the United States may comply with official requests of the International Monetary Fund for information with respect to the U.S. balance of payments and monetary reserves.”
It is hereby determined pursuant to section 2(b) of Executive Order 10033, that the Treasury Department shall collect information pertaining to capital movements between the United States and foreign countries and pertaining to the monetary reserves of the United States, except information pertaining to direct-investment transactions, U.S. Government foreign lending operations, and claims and liabilities of U.S. Government agencies (other than public debt obligations), which is collected by the Department of Commerce.
This letter supersedes the earlier determination as to the responsibilities of the Treasury Department in this area, dated April 21, 1949, as amended May 4, 1950.

# Sincerely yours,
Raymond T. Bowman,
Assistant Director for Statistical Standards.
Pt. 129

# PART 129—PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT SURVEY REPORTING
Sec.
129.1
Purpose.
129.2
Definitions.
129.3
Reporting requirements.
129.4
Recordkeeping requirements.
129.5
Confidentiality.
129.6
Penalties specified by law.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.;
E.O. 11961, 42 FR 4321, 3 CFR, 1977 Comp., p. 86.

# Source:
58 FR 30707, May 27, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 129.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to provide general information on portfolio investment survey data collection programs and analyses under the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act ((formerly the International Investment Survey Act of 1976) (the “Act”)). The purpose of the Act is to provide for the collection of comprehensive and reliable information concerning international investment, including portfolio investment. The Act specifies that regular data collection programs and surveys specified by the Act or deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Treasury shall be conducted to secure information on international capital flows and other information related to international portfolio investment, including information that may be necessary for computing and analyzing the United States balance of payments.
§ 129.2
Definitions.
For purposes of the Act and for reporting requirements under this Part:
(a)
United States,
when used in a geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
(b)
Foreign,
when used in a geographic sense, means that which is situated outside the United States or which belongs to or is characteristic of a country other than the United States.
(c)
Person
means any individual, branch, partnership, associated group, association, estate, trust, corporation, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State), and any government (including a foreign government, the United States Government, a State or local government, and any agency, corporation, financial institution, or other entity or instrumentality thereof, including a government-sponsored agency).
(d)
United States person
means any person resident in the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
(e)
Foreign person
means any person resident outside the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of a country other than the United States.
(f)
Foreign parent
means any foreign person who owns or controls, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated United States business enterprise, or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated United States business enterprise.
(g)
Reporter
means a United States person required to file a report.
(h)
Foreign official institution
means central governments of foreign countries and their possessions, including recognized central banks of issue.
§ 129.3
Reporting requirements.
(a) Notice of specific reporting requirements, including who is required
to report, the information to be reported, the manner of reporting, and the time and place of filing reports, will be published by the Secretary of the Treasury in the
Federal Register
prior to the implementation of each survey or study.
(b) Written responses are required from all reporters.
(c) Information required from reporters shall be furnished under oath.
§ 129.4
Recordkeeping requirement.
Reporters shall maintain all information used in preparing a report under this part for the period specified in the notice published by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 129.3, and shall make this information available for review and inspection at the request of the Department of the Treasury.
§ 129.5
Confidentiality.
(a) Information collected pursuant to the Act will be kept in confidence.
(b) Access to information collected pursuant to the Act shall be available only to officials and employees (including consultants and contractors and their employees) designated by the Secretary of the Treasury to perform functions under the Act.
(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed to require any Federal agency to disclose information otherwise protected by law.
(d) No person can compel the submission or disclosure of reports, or constituent parts thereof, or copies of such reports or constituents parts thereof, prepared pursuant to this part, without the prior written consent of the person who maintained or who furnished the report and the customer of the person who furnished the report, where the information supplied is identifiable as being derived from the records of the customer. As required by the Act, any published reports issued by the Treasury based upon information pursuant to this part will only contain data aggregated in such a way that neither the person supplying the information nor the investor can be identified.
§ 129.6
Penalties specified by law.
Reporters are advised that the Act provides the following penalties:
(a)
Civil Penalties.
Whoever fails to furnish any information required under the Act, whether required to be furnished in the form of a report or otherwise, or to comply with any other rule, regulation, order, or instruction promulgated under the Act, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $2,500 and not more than $25,000.
(b)
Criminal Penalties.
Whoever willfully violates any rule, regulation, order, or instruction promulgated under the Act, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $10,000 and, if an individual, may be imprisoned for not more than one year, or both, and any officer, director, employee, or agent of any corporation who knowingly participates in such violation, upon conviction, may be punished by a like fine, imprisonment or both.
PARTS 130-131 [RESERVED]
Pt. 132

# PART 132—PROHIBITION ON FUNDING OF UNLAWFUL INTERNET GAMBLING
Sec.
132.1
Authority, purpose, and incorporation by reference.
132.2
Definitions.
132.3
Designated payment systems.
132.4
Exemptions.
132.5
Policies and procedures required.
132.6
Non-exclusive examples of policies and procedures.
132.7
Regulatory enforcement.
Appendix A to Part 132—Model Notice

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321 and 5364.

# Source:
73 FR 69405, Nov. 18, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 132.1
Authority, purpose, collection of information, and incorporation by reference.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued jointly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) and the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) under section 802 of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (Act) (enacted as Title VIII of the Security and Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006, Pub. L. No. 109-347, 120 Stat. 1884, and codified at 31 U.S.C. 5361-5367). The Act states that none of its provisions shall be construed as altering, limiting,
or extending any Federal or State law or Tribal-State compact prohibiting, permitting, or regulating gambling within the United States.
See
31 U.S.C. 5361(b). In addition, the Act states that its provisions are not intended to change which activities related to horseracing may or may not be allowed under Federal law, are not intended to change the existing relationship between the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (IHA) (15 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
) and other Federal statutes in effect on October 13, 2006, the date of the Act's enactment, and are not intended to resolve any existing disagreements over how to interpret the relationship between the IHA and other Federal statutes.
See
31 U.S.C. 5362(10)(D)(iii). This part is intended to be consistent with these provisions.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to issue implementing regulations as required by the Act. The part sets out necessary definitions, designates payment systems subject to the requirements of this part, exempts certain participants in designated payment systems from certain requirements of this part, provides nonexclusive examples of policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and block, or otherwise prevent and prohibit, restricted transactions, and sets out the Federal entities that have exclusive regulatory enforcement authority with respect to the designated payments systems and non-exempt participants therein.
(c)
Collection of information.
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the collection of information requirements in this part for the Department of the Treasury and assigned OMB control number 1505-0204. The Board has approved the collection of information requirements in this part under the authority delegated to the Board by OMB, and assigned OMB control number 7100-0317.
(d)
Incorporation by reference—relevant definitions from ACH rules.
(1) This part incorporates by reference the relevant definitions of ACH terms as published in the “2008 ACH Rules: A Complete Guide to Rules
Regulations Governing the ACH Network” (the “ACH Rules”). The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the “2008 ACH Rules” are available from the National Automated Clearing House Association, Suite 100, 13450 Sunrise Valley Drive, Herndon, Virginia 20171,
http://nacha.org
, (703) 561-1100. Copies also are available for public inspection at the Department of Treasury Library, Room 1428, Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220, and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Before visiting the Treasury library, you must call (202) 622-0990 for an appointment. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html 20002.
(2) Any amendment to definitions of the relevant ACH terms in the ACH Rules shall not apply to this part unless the Treasury and the Board jointly accept such amendment by publishing notice of acceptance of the amendment to this part in the
Federal Register.
An amendment to the definition of a relevant ACH term in the ACH Rules that is accepted by the Treasury and the Board shall apply to this part on the effective date of the rulemaking specified by the Treasury and the Board in the joint
Federal Register
notice expressly accepting such amendment.
§ 132.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply solely for purposes of this part:
(a)
Actual knowledge
with respect to a transaction or commercial customer means when a particular fact with respect to that transaction or commercial customer is known by or brought to the attention of:
(1) An individual in the organization responsible for the organization's compliance function with respect to that transaction or commercial customer; or
(2) An officer of the organization.
(b)
Automated clearing house system
or
ACH system
means a funds transfer system, primarily governed by the ACH Rules, which provides for the clearing and settlement of batched electronic
entries for participating financial institutions. When referring to ACH systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “originating depository financial institution,” “operator,” “originating gateway operator,” “receiving depository financial institution,” “receiving gateway operator,” and “third-party sender”) are defined as those terms are defined in the ACH Rules.
(c)
Bet or wager.
(1) Means the staking or risking by any person of something of value upon the outcome of a contest of others, a sporting event, or a game subject to chance, upon an agreement or understanding that the person or another person will receive something of value in the event of a certain outcome;
(2) Includes the purchase of a chance or opportunity to win a lottery or other prize (which opportunity to win is predominantly subject to chance);
(3) Includes any scheme of a type described in 28 U.S.C. 3702;
(4) Includes any instructions or information pertaining to the establishment or movement of funds by the bettor or customer in, to, or from an account with the business of betting or wagering (which does not include the activities of a financial transaction provider, or any interactive computer service or telecommunications service); and
(5) Does not include—
(i) Any activity governed by the securities laws (as that term is defined in section 3(a)(47) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(47)) for the purchase or sale of securities (as that term is defined in section 3(a)(10) of that act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10));
(ii) Any transaction conducted on or subject to the rules of a registered entity or exempt board of trade under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
);
(iii) Any over-the-counter derivative instrument;
(iv) Any other transaction that—
(A) Is excluded or exempt from regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
); or
(B) Is exempt from State gaming or bucket shop laws under section 12(e) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 16(e)) or section 28(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78bb(a));
(v) Any contract of indemnity or guarantee;
(vi) Any contract for insurance;
(vii) Any deposit or other transaction with an insured depository institution;
(viii) Participation in any game or contest in which participants do not stake or risk anything of value other than—
(A) Personal efforts of the participants in playing the game or contest or obtaining access to the Internet; or
(B) Points or credits that the sponsor of the game or contest provides to participants free of charge and that can be used or redeemed only for participation in games or contests offered by the sponsor; or
(ix) Participation in any fantasy or simulation sports game or educational game or contest in which (if the game or contest involves a team or teams) no fantasy or simulation sports team is based on the current membership of an actual team that is a member of an amateur or professional sports organization (as those terms are defined in 28 U.S.C. 3701) and that meets the following conditions:
(A) All prizes and awards offered to winning participants are established and made known to the participants in advance of the game or contest and their value is not determined by the number of participants or the amount of any fees paid by those participants.
(B) All winning outcomes reflect the relative knowledge and skill of the participants and are determined predominantly by accumulated statistical results of the performance of individuals (athletes in the case of sports events) in multiple real-world sporting or other events.
(C) No winning outcome is based—
(
1
) On the score, point-spread, or any performance or performances of any single real-world team or any combination of such teams, or
(
2
) Solely on any single performance of an individual athlete in any single real-world sporting or other event.
(d)
Block
means to reject a particular transaction before or during processing, but it does not require freezing or otherwise prohibiting subsequent transfers or transactions regarding the proceeds or account.
(e)
Card issuer
means any person who issues a credit card, debit card, pre-paid card, or stored value card, or the agent of such person with respect to such card.
(f)
Card system
means a system for authorizing, clearing and settling transactions in which credit cards, debit cards, pre-paid cards, or stored value cards (such cards being issued or authorized by the operator of the system), are used to purchase goods or services or to obtain a cash advance. The term includes systems both in which the merchant acquirer, card issuer, and system operator are separate entities and in which more than one of these roles are performed by the same entity.
(g)
Check clearing house
means an association of banks or other payors that regularly exchange checks for collection or return.
(h)
Check collection system
means an interbank system for collecting, presenting, returning, and settling for checks or intrabank system for settling for checks deposited in and drawn on the same bank. When referring to check collection systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “paying bank,” “collecting bank,” “depositary bank,” “returning bank,” and “check”) are defined as those terms are defined in 12 CFR 229.2. For purposes of this part, “check” also includes an electronic representation of a check that a bank agrees to handle as a check.
(i)
Commercial customer
means a person that is not a consumer and that contracts with a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system to receive, or otherwise accesses, payment transaction services through that non-exempt participant.
(j)
Consumer
means a natural person.
(k)
Designated payment system
means a system listed in § 132.3.
(l)
Electronic fund transfer
has the same meaning given the term in section 903 of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693a), except that such term includes transfers that would otherwise be excluded under section 903(6)(E) of that act (15 U.S.C. 1693a(6)(E)), and includes any funds transfer covered by Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code, as in effect in any State.
(m)
Financial institution
means a State or national bank, a State or Federal savings and loan association, a mutual savings bank, a State or Federal credit union, or any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds an account belonging to a consumer. The term does not include a casino, sports book, or other business at or through which bets or wagers may be placed or received.
(n)
Financial transaction provider
means a creditor, credit card issuer, financial institution, operator of a terminal at which an electronic fund transfer may be initiated, money transmitting business, or international, national, regional, or local payment network utilized to effect a credit transaction, electronic fund transfer, stored value product transaction, or money transmitting service, or a participant in such network, or other participant in a designated payment system.
(o)
Foreign banking office
means:
(1) Any non-U.S. office of a financial institution; and
(2) Any non-U.S. office of a foreign bank as described in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7).
(p)
Interactive computer service
means any information service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer access by multiple users to a computer server, including specifically a service or system that provides access to the Internet and such systems operated or services offered by libraries or educational institutions.
(q)
Internet
means the international computer network of interoperable packet switched data networks.
(r)
Internet gambling business
means the business of placing, receiving or otherwise knowingly transmitting a bet or wager by any means which involves the use, at least in part, of the Internet, but does not include the performance of the customary activities of a financial transaction provider, or any interactive computer service or telecommunications service.
(s)
Intrastate transaction
means placing, receiving, or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager where—
(1) The bet or wager is initiated and received or otherwise made exclusively within a single State;
(2) The bet or wager and the method by which the bet or wager is initiated and received or otherwise made is expressly authorized by and placed in accordance with the laws of such State, and the State law or regulations include—
(i) Age and location verification requirements reasonably designed to block access to minors and persons located out of such State; and
(ii) Appropriate data security standards to prevent unauthorized access by any person whose age and current location has not been verified in accordance with such State's law or regulations; and
(3) The bet or wager does not violate any provision of—
(i) The Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
);
(ii) 28 U.S.C. chapter 178 (professional and amateur sports protection);
(iii) The Gambling Devices Transportation Act (15 U.S.C. 1171
et seq.
); or
(iv) The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.
).
(t)
Intratribal transaction
means placing, receiving or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager where—
(1) The bet or wager is initiated and received or otherwise made exclusively—
(i) Within the Indian lands of a single Indian tribe (as such terms are defined under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703)); or
(ii) Between the Indian lands of two or more Indian tribes to the extent that intertribal gaming is authorized by the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.
);
(2) The bet or wager and the method by which the bet or wager is initiated and received or otherwise made is expressly authorized by and complies with the requirements of—
(i) The applicable tribal ordinance or resolution approved by the Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission; and
(ii) With respect to class III gaming, the applicable Tribal-State compact;
(3) The applicable tribal ordinance or resolution or Tribal-State compact includes—
(i) Age and location verification requirements reasonably designed to block access to minors and persons located out of the applicable Tribal lands; and
(ii) Appropriate data security standards to prevent unauthorized access by any person whose age and current location has not been verified in accordance with the applicable tribal ordinance or resolution or Tribal-State Compact; and
(4) The bet or wager does not violate any provision of—
(i) The Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
);
(ii) 28 U.S.C. chapter 178 (professional and amateur sports protection);
(iii) The Gambling Devices Transportation Act (15 U.S.C. 1171
et seq.
); or
(iv) The Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701
et seq.
).
(u)
Money transmitting business
has the meaning given the term in 31 U.S.C. 5330(d)(1) (determined without regard to any regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury thereunder).
(v)
Operator
of a designated payment system means an entity that provides centralized clearing and delivery services between participants in the designated payment system and maintains the operational framework for the system. In the case of an automated clearinghouse system, the term “operator” has the same meaning as provided in the ACH Rules.
(w)
Participant in a designated payment system
means an operator of a designated payment system, a financial transaction provider that is a member of, or has contracted for financial transaction services with, or is otherwise participating in, a designated payment system, or a third-party processor. This term does not include a customer of the financial transaction provider, unless the customer is also a financial transaction provider otherwise participating in the designated payment system on its own behalf.
(x)
Reasoned legal opinion
means a written expression of professional judgment by a State-licensed attorney that addresses the facts of a particular client's business and the legality of the
client's provision of its services to relevant customers in the relevant jurisdictions under applicable federal and State law, and, in the case of intratribal transactions, applicable tribal ordinances, tribal resolutions, and Tribal-State compacts. A written legal opinion will not be considered “reasoned” if it does nothing more than recite the facts and express a conclusion.
(y)
Restricted transaction
means any of the following transactions or transmittals involving any credit, funds, instrument, or proceeds that the Act prohibits any person engaged in the business of betting or wagering (which does not include the activities of a financial transaction provider, or any interactive computer service or telecommunications service) from knowingly accepting, in connection with the participation of another person in unlawful Internet gambling—
(1) Credit, or the proceeds of credit, extended to or on behalf of such other person (including credit extended through the use of a credit card);
(2) An electronic fund transfer, or funds transmitted by or through a money transmitting business, or the proceeds of an electronic fund transfer or money transmitting service, from or on behalf of such other person; or
(3) Any check, draft, or similar instrument that is drawn by or on behalf of such other person and is drawn on or payable at or through any financial institution.
(z)
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any commonwealth, territory, or other possession of the United States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
(aa)
Third-party processor
means a service provider that—
(1) In the case of a debit transaction payment, such as an ACH debit entry or card system transaction, has a direct relationship with the commercial customer that is initiating the debit transfer transaction and acts as an intermediary between the commercial customer and the first depository institution to handle the transaction;
(2) In the case of a credit transaction payment, such as an ACH credit entry, has a direct relationship with the commercial customer that is to receive the proceeds of the credit transfer and acts as an intermediary between the commercial customer and the last depository institution to handle the transaction; and
(3) In the case of a cross-border ACH debit or check collection transaction, is the first service provider located within the United States to receive the ACH debit instructions or check for collection.
(bb)
Unlawful Internet gambling
means to place, receive, or otherwise knowingly transmit a bet or wager by any means which involves the use, at least in part, of the Internet where such bet or wager is unlawful under any applicable Federal or State law in the State or Tribal lands in which the bet or wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made. The term does not include placing, receiving, or otherwise transmitting a bet or wager that is excluded from the definition of this term by the Act as an intrastate transaction or an intra-tribal transaction, and does not include any activity that is allowed under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.;
see
§ 132.1(a)). The intermediate routing of electronic data shall not determine the location or locations in which a bet or wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made.
(cc)
Wire transfer system
means a system through which an unconditional order to a bank to pay a fixed or determinable amount of money to a beneficiary upon receipt, or on a day stated in the order, is transmitted by electronic or other means through the network, between banks, or on the books of a bank. When referring to wire transfer systems, the terms in this regulation (such as “bank,” “originator's bank,” “beneficiary's bank,” and “intermediary bank”) are defined as those terms are defined in 12 CFR part 210, appendix B.
§ 132.3
Designated payment systems.
The following payment systems could be used by participants in connection with, or to facilitate, a restricted transaction:
(a) Automated clearing house systems;
(b) Card systems;
(c) Check collection systems;
(d) Money transmitting businesses solely to the extent they
(1) Engage in the transmission of funds, which does not include check cashing, currency exchange, or the issuance or redemption of money orders, travelers' checks, and other similar instruments; and
(2) Permit customers to initiate transmission of funds transactions remotely from a location other than a physical office of the money transmitting business; and
(e) Wire transfer systems.
§ 132.4
Exemptions.
(a)
Automated clearing house systems.
The participants processing a particular transaction through an automated clearing house system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that transaction, except for—
(1) The receiving depository financial institution and any third-party processor receiving the transaction on behalf of the receiver in an ACH credit transaction;
(2) The originating depository financial institution and any third-party processor initiating the transaction on behalf of the originator in an ACH debit transaction; and
(3) The receiving gateway operator and any third-party processor that receives instructions for an ACH debit transaction directly from a foreign sender (which could include a foreign banking office, a foreign third-party processor, or a foreign originating gateway operator).
(b)
Check collection systems.
The participants in a particular check collection through a check collection system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that check collection, except for the depositary bank.
(c)
Money transmitting businesses.
The participants in a money transmitting business are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, except for the operator.
(d)
Wire transfer systems.
The participants in a particular wire transfer through a wire transfer system are exempt from this regulation's requirements for establishing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions with respect to that transaction, except for the beneficiary's bank.
§ 132.5
Policies and procedures required.
(a) All non-exempt participants in designated payment systems shall establish and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions.
(b) A non-exempt financial transaction provider participant in a designated payment system shall be considered to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if—
(1) It relies on and complies with the written policies and procedures of the designated payment system that are reasonably designed to—
(i) Identify and block restricted transactions; or
(ii) Otherwise prevent or prohibit the acceptance of the products or services of the designated payment system or participant in connection with restricted transactions; and
(2) Such policies and procedures of the designated payment system comply with the requirements of this part.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) in this section, a participant in a designated payment system may rely on a written statement or notice by the operator of that designated payment system to its participants that states that the operator has designed or structured the system's policies and procedures for identifying and blocking or otherwise preventing or prohibiting restricted transactions to comply with
the requirements of this part as conclusive evidence that the system's policies and procedures comply with the requirements of this part, unless the participant is notified otherwise by its Federal functional regulator or, in the case of participants that are not directly supervised by a Federal functional regulator, the Federal Trade Commission.
(d) As provided in the Act, a person that identifies and blocks a transaction, prevents or prohibits the acceptance of its products or services in connection with a transaction, or otherwise refuses to honor a transaction, shall not be liable to any party for such action if—
(1) The transaction is a restricted transaction;
(2) Such person reasonably believes the transaction to be a restricted transaction; or
(3) The person is a participant in a designated payment system and blocks or otherwise prevents the transaction in reliance on the policies and procedures of the designated payment system in an effort to comply with this regulation.
(e) Nothing in this part requires or is intended to suggest that designated payment systems or participants therein must or should block or otherwise prevent or prohibit any transaction in connection with any activity that is excluded from the definition of “unlawful Internet gambling” in the Act as an intrastate transaction, an intratribal transaction, or a transaction in connection with any activity that is allowed under the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.;
see § 132.1(a)).
(f) Nothing in this part modifies any requirement imposed on a participant by other applicable law or regulation to file a suspicious activity report to the appropriate authorities.
(g) The requirement of this part to establish and implement written policies and procedures applies only to the U.S. offices of participants in designated payment systems.
§ 132.6
Non-exclusive examples of policies and procedures.
(a)
In general.
The examples of policies and procedures to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions set out in this section are non-exclusive. In establishing and implementing written policies and procedures to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system is permitted to design and implement policies and procedures tailored to its business that may be different than the examples provided in this section. In addition, non-exempt participants may use different policies and procedures with respect to different business lines or different parts of the organization.
(b)
Due diligence.
If a non-exempt participant in a designated payment system establishes and implements procedures for due diligence of its commercial customer accounts or commercial customer relationships in order to comply, in whole or in part, with the requirements of this regulation, those due diligence procedures will be deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if the procedures include the steps set out in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section and subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(1) At the establishment of the account or relationship, the participant conducts due diligence of a commercial customer and its activities commensurate with the participant's judgment of the risk of restricted transactions presented by the customer's business.
(2) Based on its due diligence, the participant makes a determination regarding the risk the commercial customer presents of engaging in an Internet gambling business and follows either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) The participant determines that the commercial customer presents a minimal risk of engaging in an Internet gambling business.
(ii) The participant cannot determine that the commercial customer presents a minimal risk of engaging in an Internet gambling business, in which case it obtains the documentation in either paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) or (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section—
(A) Certification from the commercial customer that it does not engage in an Internet gambling business; or
(B) If the commercial customer does engage in an Internet gambling business, each of the following—
(
1
) Evidence of legal authority to engage in the Internet gambling business, such as—
(
i
) A copy of the commercial customer's license that expressly authorizes the customer to engage in the Internet gambling business issued by the appropriate State or Tribal authority or, if the commercial customer does not have such a license, a reasoned legal opinion that demonstrates that the commercial customer's Internet gambling business does not involve restricted transactions; and
(
ii
) A written commitment by the commercial customer to notify the participant of any changes in its legal authority to engage in its Internet gambling business.
(
2
) A third-party certification that the commercial customer's systems for engaging in the Internet gambling business are reasonably designed to ensure that the commercial customer's Internet gambling business will remain within the licensed or otherwise lawful limits, including with respect to age and location verification.
(3) The participant notifies all of its commercial customers, through provisions in the account or commercial customer relationship agreement or otherwise, that restricted transactions are prohibited from being processed through the account or relationship.
(4) With respect to the determination in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, participants may deem the following commercial customers to present a minimal risk of engaging in an Internet gambling business—
(i) An entity that is directly supervised by a Federal functional regulator as set out in § 132.7(a); or
(ii) An agency, department, or division of the Federal government or a State government.
(c)
Automated clearing house system examples.
(1) The policies and procedures of the originating depository financial institution and any third party processor in an ACH debit transaction, and the receiving depository financial institution and any third party processor in an ACH credit transaction, are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
(i) Address methods to conduct due diligence in establishing a commercial customer account or relationship as set out in § 132.6(b);
(ii) Address methods to conduct due diligence as set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the participant has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer of the participant engages in an Internet gambling business; and
(iii) Include procedures to be followed with respect to a commercial customer if the originating depository financial institution or third-party processor has actual knowledge that its commercial customer has originated restricted transactions as ACH debit transactions or if the receiving depository financial institution or third-party processor has actual knowledge that its commercial customer has received restricted transactions as ACH credit transactions, such as procedures that address—
(A) The circumstances under which the commercial customer should not be allowed to originate ACH debit transactions or receive ACH credit transactions; and
(B) The circumstances under which the account should be closed.
(2) The policies and procedures of a receiving gateway operator and third-party processor that receives instructions to originate an ACH debit transaction directly from a foreign sender are deemed to be reasonably designed to prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they include procedures to be followed with respect to a foreign sender if the receiving gateway operator or third-party processor has actual knowledge, obtained through notification by a government entity, such as law enforcement or a regulatory agency, that such instructions included instructions for restricted transactions. Such procedures may address sending notification to the foreign sender, such as in the form of the notice contained in appendix A to this part.
(d)
Card system examples.
The policies and procedures of a card system operator, a merchant acquirer, third-party processor, or a card issuer, are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, if the policies and procedures—
(1) Provide for either—
(i) Methods to conduct due diligence—
(A) In establishing a commercial customer account or relationship as set out in § 132.6(b); and
(B) As set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the participant has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer of the participant engages in an Internet gambling business; or
(ii) Implementation of a code system, such as transaction codes and merchant/business category codes, that are required to accompany the authorization request for a transaction, including—
(A) The operational functionality to enable the card system operator or the card issuer to reasonably identify and deny authorization for a transaction that the coding procedure indicates may be a restricted transaction; and
(B) Procedures for ongoing monitoring or testing by the card system operator to detect potential restricted transactions, including—
(
1
) Conducting testing to ascertain whether transaction authorization requests are coded correctly; and
(
2
) Monitoring and analyzing payment patterns to detect suspicious payment volumes from a merchant customer; and
(2) For the card system operator, merchant acquirer, or third-party processor, include procedures to be followed when the participant has actual knowledge that a merchant has received restricted transactions through the card system, such as—
(i) The circumstances under which the access to the card system for the merchant, merchant acquirer, or third-party processor should be denied; and
(ii) The circumstances under which the merchant account should be closed.
(e)
Check collection system examples.
(1) The policies and procedures of a depositary bank are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions, if they—
(i) Address methods for the depositary bank to conduct due diligence in establishing a commercial customer account or relationship as set out in § 132.6(b);
(ii) Address methods for the depositary bank to conduct due diligence as set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the depositary bank has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer engages in an Internet gambling business; and
(iii) Include procedures to be followed if the depositary bank has actual knowledge that a commercial customer of the depositary bank has deposited checks that are restricted transactions, such as procedures that address—
(A) The circumstances under which check collection services for the customer should be denied; and
(B) The circumstances under which the account should be closed.
(2) The policies and procedures of a depositary bank that receives checks for collection from a foreign banking office are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they include procedures to be followed by the depositary bank when it has actual knowledge, obtained through notification by a government entity, such as law enforcement or a regulatory agency, that a foreign banking office has sent checks to the depositary bank that are restricted transactions. Such procedures may address sending notification to the foreign banking office, such as in the form of the notice contained in the appendix to this part.
(f)
Money transmitting business examples.
The policies and procedures of an operator of a money transmitting business are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
(1) Address methods for the operator to conduct due diligence in establishing a commercial customer relationship as set out in § 132.6(b);
(2) Address methods for the operator to conduct due diligence as set out in
§ 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the operator has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer engages in an Internet gambling business;
(3) Include procedures regarding ongoing monitoring or testing by the operator to detect potential restricted transactions, such as monitoring and analyzing payment patterns to detect suspicious payment volumes to any recipient; and
(4) Include procedures when the operator has actual knowledge that a commercial customer of the operator has received restricted transactions through the money transmitting business, that address—
(i) The circumstances under which money transmitting services should be denied to that commercial customer; and
(ii) The circumstances under which the commercial customer account should be closed.
(g)
Wire transfer system examples.
The policies and procedures of the beneficiary's bank in a wire transfer are deemed to be reasonably designed to identify and block or otherwise prevent or prohibit restricted transactions if they—
(1) Address methods for the beneficiary's bank to conduct due diligence in establishing a commercial customer account as set out in § 132.6(b);
(2) Address methods for the beneficiary's bank to conduct due diligence as set out in § 132.6(b)(2)(ii)(B) in the event that the beneficiary's bank has actual knowledge that an existing commercial customer of the bank engages in an Internet gambling business;
(3) Include procedures to be followed if the beneficiary's bank obtains actual knowledge that a commercial customer of the bank has received restricted transactions through the wire transfer system, such as procedures that address
(i) The circumstances under which the beneficiary bank should deny wire transfer services to the commercial customer; and
(ii) The circumstances under which the commercial customer account should be closed.
§ 132.7
Regulatory enforcement.
The requirements under this part are subject to the exclusive regulatory enforcement of—
(a) The Federal functional regulators, with respect to the designated payment systems and participants therein that are subject to the respective jurisdiction of such regulators under section 505(a) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6805(a)) and section 5g of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-2); and
(b) The Federal Trade Commission, with respect to designated payment systems and participants therein not otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of any Federal functional regulators (including the Commission) as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
Pt. 132, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 132—Model Notice
[Date]
[Name of foreign sender or foreign banking office]
[Address]
Re:
U.S. Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act Notice
Dear [Name of foreign counterparty]:
On [date], U.S. government officials informed us that your institution processed payments through our facilities for Internet gambling transactions restricted by U.S. law on [dates, recipients, and other relevant information if available].
We provide this notice to comply with U.S. Government regulations implementing the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (Act), a U.S. federal law. Our policies and procedures established in accordance with those regulations provide that we will notify a foreign counterparty if we learn that the counterparty has processed payments through our facilities for Internet gambling transactions restricted by the Act. This notice ensures that you are aware that we have received information that your institution has processed payments for Internet gambling restricted by the Act.
The Act is codified in subchapter IV, chapter 53, title 31 of the U.S. Code (31 U.S.C. 5361
et seq.
). Implementing regulations that duplicate one another can be found at part 233 of title 12 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (12 CFR part 233) and part 132 of title 31 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (31 CFR part 132).
PARTS 133-147 [RESERVED]
Pt. 148

# PART 148—QUALIFIED FINANCIAL CONTRACTS RECORDKEEPING RELATED TO THE FDIC ORDERLY LIQUIDATION AUTHORITY
Sec.
148.1
Scope, purpose, effective date, and compliance dates.
148.2
Definitions.
148.3
Form, availability and maintenance of records.
148.4
Content of records.
Appendix A to Part 148—File Structure for Qualified Financial Contract Records

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321(b) and 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(H).

# Source:
81 FR 75658, Oct. 31, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 148.1
Scope, purpose, effective date, and compliance dates.
(a)
Scope.
This part applies to each financial company that is a records entity and, with respect to § 148.3(a), a top-tier financial company of a corporate group as defined in § 148.2.
(b)
Purpose.
This part establishes recordkeeping requirements with respect to QFCs of records entities in order to assist the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) as receiver for a covered financial company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(8)) in being able to exercise its rights and fulfill its obligations under 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8), (9), or (10).
(c)
Effective Date.
This part shall become effective December 30, 2016.
(d)
Compliance
—(1)
Initial compliance dates.
(i) A records entity subject to this part on the effective date must comply with § 148.3(a)(2) on the date that is 90 days after the effective date and with all other applicable requirements of this part on:
(A) March 31, 2019 for a records entity that:
(
1
) Has total assets equal to or greater than $1 trillion; or
(
2
) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A)(1) of this section;
(B) June 30, 2019 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance date set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section and:
(
1
) Has total assets equal to or greater than $500 billion; or
(
2
) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B)(1) of this section; and
(C) June 30, 2020 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance dates set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section and:
(
1
) Has total assets equal to or greater than $250 billion; or
(
2
) Is a member of the corporate group of any such records entity described in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C)(1) of this section; and
(D) June 30, 2021 for any records entity that is not subject to the compliance dates set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.
(ii) A financial company that becomes a records entity after the effective date must comply with § 148.3(a)(2) within 90 days of becoming a records entity and with all other applicable requirements of this part within 540 days of becoming a records entity or within the remainder of the applicable period provided under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, whichever period is longer.
(2)
Subsequent compliance dates.
If a financial company that at one time met the definition of records entity later ceases to meet the definition of records entity and thereafter, on any subsequent date, again meets the definition of a records entity, such financial company must comply with all applicable requirements of this part within 365 days after such subsequent date, or within the remainder of the applicable period provided under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, whichever period is longer.
(3)
Extensions of time to comply.
The Secretary, in consultation with the FDIC, may grant one or more extensions of time for compliance with this part. A records entity may request an extension of time by submitting a written request to the Department of the Treasury and the FDIC at least 30 days prior to the deadline for its compliance provided under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The written request for an extension must contain:
(i) A statement of the reasons why the records entity cannot comply by the deadline; and
(ii) A plan for achieving compliance during the requested extension period.
(4)
Compliance by top-tier financial company.
A top-tier financial company must comply with § 148.3(a)(1)(ii) on the same date as the date on which the records entity members of the corporate group of which it is the top-tier financial company are required to comply with this part.
[81 FR 75658, Oct. 31, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 17621, Apr. 23, 2018]
§ 148.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Affiliate
means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity.
(b)
Control.
An entity “controls” another entity if:
(1) The entity directly or indirectly or acting through one or more other persons owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other entity;
(2) The entity controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other entity; or
(3) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has determined, after notice and opportunity for hearing in accordance with 12 CFR 225.31, that the entity directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of the other entity.
(c)
Corporate group
means an entity and all affiliates of that entity.
(d)
Counterparty
means any natural person or entity (or separate foreign branch or division of any entity) that is a party to a QFC with a records entity.
(e)
Derivative liabilities
means the fair value of derivative instruments in a negative position as of the end of the most recent fiscal year end, as recognized and measured in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards. Such value shall be adjusted for the effects of master netting agreements and cash collateral held with the same counterparty on a net basis to the extent such adjustments are reflected on the audited consolidated statement of financial condition of the applicable financial company filed with its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies or, for financial companies not required to file such statements, on the consolidated balance sheet of the financial company prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
(f)
Excluded entity
means:
(1) An insured depository institution as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2);
(2) A subsidiary of an insured depository institution that is not:
(i) A functionally regulated subsidiary as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1844(c)(5);
(ii) A security-based swap dealer as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71); or
(iii) A major security-based swap participant as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(67); or
(3) An insurance company.
(g)
Financial company
has the meaning set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(11).
(h)
Insurance company
means:
(1) An insurance company as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(13); and
(2) A mutual insurance holding company that meets the conditions set forth in 12 CFR 380.11 for being treated as an insurance company for the purpose of section 203(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 12 U.S.C. 5383(e).
(i)
Legal Entity Identifier
or
LEI
for an entity shall mean the global legal entity identifier maintained for such entity by a utility accredited by the Global LEI Foundation or by a utility endorsed by the Regulatory Oversight Committee. As used in this definition:
(1) Regulatory Oversight Committee means the Regulatory Oversight Committee (of the Global LEI System), whose charter was set forth by the Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty and the Financial Stability Board, or any successor thereof; and
(2) Global LEI Foundation means the not-for-profit organization organized under Swiss law by the Financial Stability Board in 2014, or any successor thereof.
(j)
Parent entity
with respect to an entity is an entity that controls that entity.
(k)
Position
means an individual transaction under or evidenced by a QFC and includes the rights and obligations of a party to an individual transaction under or evidenced by a QFC.
(l)
Primary financial regulatory agency
means:
(1) With respect to any financial company, the primary financial regulatory agency as specified for such financial company in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (E) of 12 U.S.C. 5301(12); and
(2) With respect to a financial market utility that is subject to a designation pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5463 for which there is no primary financial regulatory agency under § 148.2(l)(1), the Supervisory Agency for that financial market utility as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5462(8).
(m)
Qualified financial contract
or
QFC
means any qualified financial contract defined in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D), including without limitation, any “swap” defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)) and in any rules or regulations issued by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to such section; any “security-based swap” defined in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)) and in any rules or regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to such section; and any securities contract, commodity contract, forward contract, repurchase agreement, swap agreement, and any similar agreement that the FDIC determines by regulation, resolution, or order to be a qualified financial contract as provided in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D).
(n)
Records entity
—
(1) Records entity means any financial company that:
(i) Is not an excluded entity as defined in § 148.2(f);
(ii) Is a party to an open QFC; and
(iii) (A) Is subject to a determination that the company shall be subject to Federal Reserve supervision and enhanced prudential standards pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5323;
(B) Is subject to a designation as, or as likely to become, systemically important pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5463;
(C) Is identified as a global systemically important bank holding company pursuant to 12 CFR part 217;
(D)(
1
) Has total assets on a consolidated basis equal to or greater than $50 billion; and
(
2
) On a consolidated basis has:
(
i
) Total gross notional derivatives outstanding equal to or greater than $250 billion; or
(
ii
) Derivative liabilities equal to or greater than $3.5 billion; or
(E)(
1
) Is a member of a corporate group in which at least one financial company meets the criteria under one or more of paragraphs (n)(1)(iii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section; and
(
2
)(
i
) Consolidates, is consolidated by, or is consolidated with such financial company on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards; or
(
ii
) For financial companies not subject to such principles or standards, would consolidate, be consolidated by, or be consolidated with such financial company if such principles or standards applied.
(2) A financial company that qualifies as a records entity pursuant to paragraph (n)(1)(iii)(D) will remain a records entity until one year after it ceases to meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (n)(1)(iii)(D) of this section.
(o)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee.
(p)
Subsidiary
means any company that is controlled by another company.
(q)
Top-tier financial company
means a financial company that is a member of a corporate group consisting of multiple records entities and that is not itself controlled by another financial company.
(r)
Total assets
means the total assets reported on the audited consolidated statement of financial condition of the applicable financial company for the most recent year end filed with its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies or, for financial companies not required to file such statements, the total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the financial company for the most recent fiscal year end as prepared in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
(s)
Total gross notional derivatives outstanding
means the gross notional value of all derivative instruments that are outstanding as of the most recent fiscal year end, as recognized and measured in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards.
§ 148.3
Form, availability and maintenance of records.
(a)
Form and availability
—(1)
Electronic records.
(i) Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a records entity is required to maintain the records described in § 148.4 in electronic form and, as applicable, in the format set forth in the tables in the appendix to this part.
(ii) A top-tier financial company must be capable of generating a single, compiled set of the records required to be maintained by § 148.4(a)-(h), in a format that allows for aggregation and disaggregation of such data by records entity and counterparty, for all records entities in its corporate group that are consolidated by or consolidated with such top-tier financial company on financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or other applicable accounting standards or, for financial companies not subject to such principles or standards, that would be consolidated by or consolidated with such financial company if such principles or standards applied.
(2)
Point of contact.
Each records entity and top-tier financial company must provide a point of contact who is responsible for recordkeeping under this part by written notice to its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies and the FDIC and must provide written notice to its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies and the FDIC within 30 days of any change in its point of contact.
(3)
Access to records.
Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a records entity and a top-tier financial company that are regulated by a primary financial regulatory agency shall be capable of providing electronically to such primary financial regulatory agency and the FDIC, within 24 hours of request by the primary financial regulatory agency:
(i) In the case of a records entity, the records specified in § 148.4, and
(ii) In the case of a top-tier financial company, the set of records referenced in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(b)
Maintenance and updating
—(1)
Daily updating.
Except to the extent of any relevant exemption provided under paragraph (c) of this section, the records maintained under § 148.4 shall be based on values and information that are no less current than previous end-of-day values and information.
(2)
Records maintenance.
The records required under § 148.4 and the capability of generating the set of records required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may be maintained on behalf of the records entity or top-tier financial company, as applicable, by any affiliate of such records entity or top-tier financial company, as applicable, or any third-party service provider; provided that such records entity shall itself maintain records under this part in the event that such affiliate or service provider shall fail to maintain such records and such top-tier financial company shall itself maintain the capability of generating the set of records required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section in the event that such affiliate or service provider shall fail to maintain the capability of doing so.
(3)
Record retention.
A records entity shall retain records maintained under § 148.4 based on end-of-day values and information for the five preceding business days.
(c)
Exemptions
—(1)
De minimis exemption.
A records entity that is a party to 50 or fewer open QFC positions is not required to maintain the records described in § 148.4, other than the records described in § 148.4(i).
(2)
Clearing organizations.
A records entity that is a derivatives clearing organization registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) or a clearing agency registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission under section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) is not required to maintain the records described in § 148.4 if it is:
(i) In compliance with the recordkeeping requirements of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission, as applicable, including its maintenance of records pertaining to all QFCs cleared by such records entity; and
(ii) Capable of and not restricted from, whether by law, regulation, or agreement, transmitting electronically to the FDIC the records maintained under such recordkeeping requirements within 24 hours of request of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the Securities and Exchange Commission, as applicable.
(3)
Requests for exemptions.
One or more records entities may request an exemption from one or more of the requirements of this part by writing to the Department of the Treasury, the FDIC, and its primary financial regulatory agency or agencies, if any. The written request for an exemption must:
(i) Identify the records entity or records entities or the types of records entities to which the exemption should apply;
(ii) Specify the requirement(s) under this part from which the identified records entities should be exempt;
(iii) Provide details as to the size, risk, complexity, leverage, frequency and dollar amount of qualified financial contracts, and interconnectedness to the financial system of each records entity identified in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, to the extent appropriate, and any other relevant factors; and
(iv) Specify the reason(s) why granting the exemption will not impair or impede the FDIC's ability to exercise its rights or fulfill its statutory obligations under 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8), (9), and (10).
(4)
Granting exemptions.
(i) Upon receipt of a written recommendation from the FDIC, prepared in consultation with the primary financial regulatory agency or agencies for the applicable records entity or entities, that takes into consideration each of the factors referenced in 12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(H)(iv) and any other factors the FDIC considers appropriate, the Secretary may grant, in whole or in part, a conditional or unconditional exemption from compliance with one or more of the requirements of this part by issuing an exemption to one or more records entities.
(ii) In determining whether to grant an exemption to one or more records entities, including whether to grant a conditional or unconditional exemption, the Secretary will consider any factors deemed appropriate by the Secretary, including whether application of one or more requirements of this part is not necessary to achieve the purpose of this part as described in § 148.1(b).
(iii) If the FDIC does not submit, within 90 days of the date on which the FDIC and the Department of the Treasury received the exemption request, a written recommendation to the Secretary as to whether to grant or deny an exemption request, the Secretary will nevertheless determine whether to grant or deny the exemption request.
§ 148.4
Content of records.
Subject to § 148.3(c), a records entity must maintain the following records:
(a) The position level data listed in Table A-1 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.
(b) The counterparty netting set data listed in Table A-2 in appendix A to this part for each netting set with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.
(c) The legal agreements information listed in Table A-3 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.
(d) The collateral detail data listed in Table A-4 in appendix A to this part with respect to each QFC to which it is a party.
(e) The corporate organization master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for the records entity and each of its affiliates.
(f) The counterparty master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for each non-affiliated counterparty with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.
(g) The booking location master data lookup table in appendix A to this part for each booking location used with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.
(h) The safekeeping agent master data lookup table in the appendix to this part for each safekeeping agent used with respect to QFCs to which it is a party.
(i) All documents that govern QFC transactions between the records entity and each counterparty, including, without limitation, master agreements and annexes, schedules, netting agreements, supplements, or other modifications with respect to the agreements, confirmations for each open QFC position of the records entity that has been confirmed and all trade acknowledgments for each open QFC position that has not been confirmed, all credit support documents including, but not limited to, credit support annexes, guarantees, keep-well agreements, or net worth maintenance agreements that are relevant to one or more QFCs, and all assignment or novation documents, if applicable, including documents that confirm that all required consents, approvals, or other conditions precedent for such assignment or novation have been obtained or satisfied.
(j) A list of vendors directly supporting the QFC-related activities of the records entity and the vendors' contact information.
Pt. 148, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 148—File Structure for Qualified Financial Contract Records
Table A-1—Position-Level Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
A1.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Provide data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD
A1.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity. Information needed to review position-level data by records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A1.3
Position identifier
20058953
Provide a position identifier. Should be used consistently across all record entities within the corporate group. Use the unique transaction identifier if available. Information needed to readily track and distinguish positions
Varchar(100).
A1.4
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide a counterparty identifier. Use LEI if counterparty has one. Should be used consistently by all record entities within the corporate group. Information needed to identify counterparty by reference to Counterparty Master Table
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A1.5
Internal booking location identifier
New York, New York
Provide office where the position is booked. Information needed to determine system on which the trade is booked and settled
Varchar(50)
Combination A1.2 + A1.5 + A1.6 should have a corresponding unique combination BL.2 + BL.3 + BL.4 entry in Booking Location Master Table.
A1.6
Unique booking unit or desk identifier
xxxxxx
Provide an identifier for unit or desk at which the position is booked. Information needed to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50)
Combination A1.2 + A1.5 + A1.6 should have a corresponding unique combination BL.2 + BL.3 + BL.4 entry in Booking Location Master Table.
A1.7
Type of QFC
Credit, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate (including cross-currency), other commodity, securities repurchase agreement, securities lending, loan repurchase agreement, guarantee or other third party credit enhancement of a QFC
Provide type of QFC. Use unique product identifier if available. Information needed to determine the nature of the QFC
Varchar (100).
A1.7.1
Type of QFC covered by guarantee or other third party credit enhancement
Credit, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate (including cross-currency), other commodity, securities repurchase agreement, securities lending, or loan repurchase agreement
If QFC type is guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide type of QFC of the QFC that is covered by such guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use unique product identifier if available. If multiple asset classes are covered by the guarantee or credit enhancement, enter the asset classes separated by comma. If all the QFCs of the underlying QFC obligor identifier are covered by the guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, enter “All”
Varchar(500)
Only required if QFC type (A1.7) is a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement.
A1.7.2
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
If QFC type is guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for the QFC obligor whose obligation is covered by the guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if underlying QFC obligor has one. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a QFC obligor that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Only required if QFC asset type (A1.7) is a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Validated against CO.2 if affiliate or CP.2 if non-affiliate.
A1.8
Agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for the primary governing documentation,
e.g.,
the master agreement or guarantee agreement, as applicable
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A1.9
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for netting agreement. If this agreement is the same as provided in A1.8, use same identifier. Information needed to identify unique netting sets
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A1.10
Netting agreement counterparty identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide a netting agreement counterparty identifier. Use same identifier as provided in A1.4 if counterparty and netting agreement counterparty are the same. Use LEI if netting agreement counterparty has one. Information needed to identify unique netting sets
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A1.11
Trade date
2014-12-20
Provide trade or other commitment date for the QFC. Information needed to determine when the entity's rights and obligations regarding the position originated
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.12
Termination date
2014-03-31
Provide date the QFC terminates or is expected to terminate, expire, mature, or when final performance is required. Information needed to determine when the entity's rights and obligations regarding the position are expected to end
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.13
Next call, put, or cancellation date
2015-01-25
Provide next call, put, or cancellation date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.14
Next payment date
2015-01-25
Provide next payment date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A1.15
Local Currency Of Position
USD
Provide currency in which QFC is denominated. Use ISO currency code
Char(3).
A1.16
Current market value of the position in local currency
995000
Provide current market value of the position in local currency. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the current mark-to-market expected value of the exposure. Information needed to determine the current size of the obligation or benefit associated with the QFC
Num (25,5).
A1.17
Current market value of the position in U.S. dollars
995000
In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the current mark-to-market expected value of the exposure. Information needed to determine the current size of the obligation/benefit associated with the QFC
Num (25,5).
A1.18
Asset Classification
1
Provide fair value asset classification under GAAP, IFRS, or other accounting principles or standards used by records entity. Provide “1” for Level 1, “2” for Level 2, or “3” for Level 3. Information needed to assess fair value of the position
Char(1).
A1.19
Notional or principal amount of the position in local currency
1000000
Provide the notional or principal amount, as applicable, in local currency. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement, provide the maximum possible exposure. Information needed to help evaluate the position
Num (25,5).
A1.20
Notional or principal amount of the position In U.S. dollars
1000000
Provide the notional or principal amount, as applicable, in U.S. dollars. In the case of a guarantee or other third party credit enhancements, provide the maximum possible exposure. Information needed to help evaluate the position
Num (25,5).
A1.21
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Indicate whether QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement. Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.
A1.21.1
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for provider. Use LEI if available. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a provider that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21 is “Y”. Validated against CP.2.
A1.21.2
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
4444444
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for the agreement
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21 is “Y.” Validated against A3.3.
A1.21.3
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Indicate whether QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement. Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.
A1.21.4
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for provider. Use LEI if available. Complete the counterparty master table with respect to a provider that is a non-affiliate
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21.3 is “Y”. Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A1.21.5
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
4444444
If QFC is covered by a guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement, provide an identifier for agreement
Varchar(50)
Required if A1.21.3 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A1.22
Related position of records entity
3333333
Use this field to link any related positions of the records entity. All positions that are related to one another should have same designation in this field
Varchar(100).
A1.23
Reference number for any related loan
9999999
Provide a unique reference number for any loan held by the records entity or a member of its corporate group related to the position (with multiple entries delimited by commas)
Varchar(500).
A1.24
Identifier of the lender of the related loan
999999999
For any loan recorded in A1.23, provide identifier for records entity or member of its corporate group that holds any related loan. Use LEI if entity has one
Varchar(500).
Table A-2—Counterparty Netting Set Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
A2.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A2.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide the LEI for the records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A2.3
Netting agreement counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide an identifier for the netting agreement counterparty. Use LEI if counterparty has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A2.4
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide an identifier for the netting agreement
Varchar(50)
Validated against A3.3.
A2.4.1
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
Provide identifier for underlying QFC obligor if netting agreement is associated with a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if available
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A2.5
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Indicate whether the positions subject to the netting set agreement are covered by a third-party credit enhancement agreement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.“
A2.5.1
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity third-party credit enhancement provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5 is “Y”. Validated against CP.2.
A2.5.2
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
4444444
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A2.5.3
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.
A2.5.4
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity third-party credit enhancement provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5.3 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master Table. Validated against CP.2.
A2.5.5
Third-party credit enhancement agreement identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
4444444
Information used to determine guarantee or other third-party credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A2.5.3 is “Y”. Validated against A3.3.
A2.6
Aggregate current market value in U.S. dollars of all positions under this netting agreement
−1000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all positions in A1 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.7
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all positive positions, as aggregated under this netting agreement
3000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all positive positions in A1 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.8
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all negative positions, as aggregated under this netting agreement
−4000000
Information needed to help evaluate the positions subject to the netting agreement
Num (25,5)
Market value of all negative positions in A1 for the given Netting Agreement Identifier should be equal to this value. A2.6 = A2.7 + A2.8.
A2.9
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by records entity, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by records entity for the given netting agreement Identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A2.10
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by counterparty, as aggregated under this netting agreement
50000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by counterparty
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by counterparty for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A2.11
Current market value in U.S. dollar of all collateral posted by records entity that is subject to re-hypothecation, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5).
A2.12
Current market value in U.S. dollars of all collateral posted by counterparty that is subject to re-hypothecation, as aggregated under this netting agreement
950000
Information needed to determine the extent to which collateral has been provided by records entity
Num (25,5).
A2.13
Records entity collateral—net
950000
Provide records entity's collateral excess or deficiency with respect to all of its positions, as determined under each applicable agreement, including thresholds and haircuts where applicable
Num (25,5)
Should be less than or equal to A2.9.
A2.14
Counterparty collateral—net
950000
Provide counterparty's collateral excess or deficiency with respect to all of its positions, as determined under each applicable agreement, including thresholds and haircuts where applicable
Num (25,5)
Should be less than or equal to A2.10.
A2.15
Next margin payment date
2015-11-05
Provide next margin payment date for position
YYYY-MM-DD.
A2.16
Next margin payment amount in U.S. dollars
150000
Use positive value if records entity is due a payment and use negative value if records entity has to make the payment
Num (25,5).
A2.17
Safekeeping agent identifier for records entity
888888888
Provide an identifier for the records entity's safekeeping agent, if any. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against SA.2.
A2.18
Safekeeping agent identifier for counterparty
888888888
Provide an identifier for the counterparty's safekeeping agent, if any. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against SA.2.
Table A-3—Legal Agreements
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
A3.1
As Of Date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A3.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A3.3
Agreement identifier
xxxxxx
Provide identifier for each master agreement, governing document, netting agreement or third-party credit enhancement agreement
Varchar(50).
A3.4
Name of agreement or governing document
ISDA Master 1992 or Guarantee Agreement or Master Netting Agreement
Provide name of agreement or governing document
Varchar(50).
A3.5
Agreement date
2010-01-25
Provide the date of the agreement
YYYY-MM-DD.
A3.6
Agreement counterparty identifier
888888888
Use LEI if counterparty has one. Information needed to identify counterparty
Varchar(50)
Validated against field CP.2.
A3.6.1
Underlying QFC obligor identifier
888888888
Provide underlying QFC obligor identifier if document identifier is associated with a guarantee or other third party credit enhancement. Use LEI if underlying QFC obligor has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2 or CP.2.
A3.7
Agreement governing law
New York
Provide law governing contract disputes
Varchar(50).
A3.8
Cross-default provision?
Y/N
Specify whether agreement includes default or other termination event provisions that reference an entity not a party to the agreement (“cross-default Entity”). Information needed to determine exposure to affiliates or other entities
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.
A3.9
Identity of cross-default entities
777777777
Provide identity of any cross-default entities referenced in A3.8. Use LEI if entity has one. Information needed to determine exposure to other entities
Varchar(500)
Required if A3.8 is “Y”. ID should be a valid entry in Corporate Org Master Table or Counterparty Master Table, if applicable. Multiple entries comma separated.
A3.10
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the records entity)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
A3.11
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity Third-Party Credit Enhancement Provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.10 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master Table. Validated against CP.2.
A3.12
Associated third-party credit enhancement agreement document identifier (for the benefit of the records entity)
33333333
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.10 is “Y”. Validated against field A3.3.
A3.12.1
Covered by third-party credit enhancement agreement (for the benefit of the counterparty)?
Y/N
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
A3.12.2
Third-party credit enhancement provider identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
999999999
Use LEI if available. Information needed to identity Third-Party Credit Enhancement Provider
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.12.1 is “Y”. Should be a valid entry in the Counterparty Master. Validated against CP.2.
A3.12.3
Associated third-party credit enhancement agreement document identifier (for the benefit of the counterparty)
33333333
Information needed to determine credit enhancement
Varchar(50)
Required if A3.12.1 is “Y”. Validated against field A3.3.
A3.13
Counterparty contact information: name
John Doe
Co
Provide contact name for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(200).
A3.14
Counterparty contact information: address
123 Main St, City, State Zip code
Provide contact address for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(100).
A3.15
Counterparty contact information: phone
1-999-999-9999
Provide contact phone number for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(50).
A3.16
Counterparty's contact information: email address
Jdoe@JohnDoe.com
Provide contact email address for counterparty as provided under notice section of agreement
Varchar(100).
Table A-4—Collateral Detail Data
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
A4.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
A4.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI for records entity
Varchar(50)
Validated against CO.2.
A4.3
Collateral posted/collateral received flag
P/N
Enter “P” if collateral has been posted by the records entity. Enter “R” for collateral received by Records Entity
Char(1).
A4.4
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Provide identifier for counterparty. Use LEI if counterparty has one
Varchar(50)
Validated against CP.2.
A4.5
Netting agreement identifier
xxxxxxxxx
Provide identifier for applicable netting agreement
Varchar(50)
Validated against field A3.3.
A4.6
Unique collateral item identifier
CUSIP/ISIN
Provide identifier to reference individual collateral posted
Varchar(50).
A4.7
Original face amount of collateral item in local currency
1500000
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability
Num (25,5)
A4.8
Local currency of collateral item
USD
Use ISO currency code
Char(3).
A4.9
Market value amount of collateral item in U.S. dollars
850000
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability and to permit aggregation across currencies
Num (25,5)
Market value of all collateral posted by Records Entity or Counterparty A2.9 or A2.10 for the given netting agreement identifier should be equal to sum of all A4.9 for the same netting agreement identifier in A4.
A4.10
Description of collateral item
U.S. Treasury Strip, maturity 2020/6/30
Information needed to evaluate collateral sufficiency and marketability
Varchar(200).
A4.11
Asset classification
1
Provide fair value asset classification for the collateral item under GAAP, IFRS, or other accounting principles or standards used by records entity. Provide “1” for Level 1, “2” for Level 2, or “3” for Level 3
Char(1)
Should be “1” or “2” or “3.”
A4.12
Collateral or portfolio segregation status
Y/N
Specify whether the specific item of collateral or the related collateral portfolio is segregated from assets of the safekeeping agent
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
A4.13
Collateral location
ABC broker-dealer (in safekeeping account of counterparty)
Provide location of collateral posted
Varchar(200).
A4.14
Collateral jurisdiction
New York, New York
Provide jurisdiction of location of collateral posted
Varchar(50).
A4.15
Is collateral re-hypothecation allowed?
Y/N
Information needed to evaluate exposure of the records entity to the counterparty or vice-versa for re-hypothecated collateral
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
Corporate Organization Master Table
1
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
CO.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
CO.2
Entity identifier
888888888
Provide unique identifier. Use LEI if available. Information needed to identify entity
Varchar(50)
Should be unique across all record entities.
CO.3
Has LEI been used for entity identifier?
Y/N
Specify whether the entity identifier provided is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CO.4
Legal name of entity
John Doe
Co
Provide legal name of entity
Varchar(200).
CO.5
Immediate parent entity identifier
77777777
Use LEI if available. Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(50).
CO.6
Has LEI been used for immediate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Specify whether the immediate parent entity identifier provided is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CO.7
Legal name of immediate parent entity
John Doe
Co
Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(200).
CO.8
Percentage ownership of immediate parent entity in the entity
100.00
Information needed to complete org structure
Num (5,2).
CO.9
Entity type
Subsidiary, foreign branch,
foreign division
Information needed to complete org structure
Varchar(50).
CO.10
Domicile
New York, New York
Enter as city, state or city, foreign country
Varchar(50).
CO.11
Jurisdiction under which incorporated or organized
New York
Enter as state or foreign jurisdiction
Varchar(50).
CO.12
Reporting status
REN
Indicate one of the following, as appropriate, given status of entity under the this part. Information needed to validate compliance with the requirements of this part
REN = Records entity (reporting).
NFC= Non-financial company (not reporting)
EXC = Excluded entity (not reporting)
ZER = Records entity with 0 QFCs (not reporting)
DEM = Records entity de minimis exemption (not reporting)
OTH = Records entity using another exemption (not reporting)
Char(3)
Should be “REN” or “NFC” or “EXC” or “DEM” or “ZER” or “OTH.”
1
Foreign branches and divisions shall be separately identified to the extent they are identified in an entity's reports to its PFRAs.
Counterparty Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
CP.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
CP.2
Counterparty identifier
888888888
Use LEI if counterparty has one. Should be used consistently across all records entities within a corporate group. The counterparty identifier shall be the global legal entity identifier if one has been issued to the entity. If a counterparty transacts with the records entity through one or more separate foreign branches or divisions and any such branch or division does not have its own unique global legal entity identifier, the records entity must include additional identifiers, as appropriate to enable the FDIC to aggregate or disaggregate the data for each counterparty and for each entity with the same ultimate parent entity as the counterparty
Varchar(50).
CP.3
Has LEI been used for counterparty identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the counterparty identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CP.4
Legal name of counterparty
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(200).
CP.5
Domicile
New York, New York
Enter as city, state or city, foreign country
Varchar(50).
CP.6
Jurisdiction under which incorporated or organized
New York
Enter as state or foreign jurisdiction
Varchar(50).
CP.7
Immediate parent entity identifier
77777777
Provide an identifier for the parent entity that directly controls the counterparty. Use LEI if immediate parent entity has one
Varchar(50).
CP.8
Has LEI been used for immediate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the immediate parent entity identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CP.9
Legal name of immediate parent entity
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(200).
CP.10
Ultimate parent entity identifier
666666666
Provide an identifier for the parent entity that is a member of the corporate group of the counterparty that is not controlled by another entity. Information needed to identify counterparty. Use LEI if ultimate parent entity has one
Varchar(50)
CP.11
Has LEI been used for ultimate parent entity identifier?
Y/N
Indicate whether the ultimate parent entity identifier is an LEI
Char(1)
Should be “Y” or “N.”
CP.12
Legal name of ultimate parent entity
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with counterparty
Varchar(100).
Booking Location Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
BL.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD.
BL.2
Records entity identifier
999999999
Provide LEI
Varchar(50)
Should be a valid entry in the Corporate Org Master Table.
BL.3
Internal booking location identifier
New York, New York
Provide office where the position is booked. Information needed to determine the headquarters or branch where the position is booked, including the system on which the trade is booked, as well as the system on which the trade is settled
Varchar(50).
BL.4
Unique booking unit or desk identifier
xxxxxx
Provide unit or desk at which the position is booked. Information needed to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50).
BL.5
Unique booking unit or desk description
North American trading desk
Additional information to help determine purpose of position
Varchar(50).
BL.6
Booking unit or desk contact—phone
1-999-999-9999
Information needed to communicate with the booking unit or desk
Varchar(50).
BL.7
Booking unit or desk contact—email
Desk@Desk.com
Information needed to communicate with the booking unit or desk
Varchar(100).
Safekeeping Agent Master Table
Field
Example
Instructions and data application
Definition
Validation
SA.1
As of date
2015-01-05
Data extraction date
YYYY-MM-DD
SA.2
Safekeeping agent identifier
888888888
Provide an identifier for the safekeeping agent. Use LEI if safekeeping agent has one
Varchar(50).
SA.3
Legal name of safekeeping agent
John Doe
Co
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(200).
SA.4
Point of contact—name
John Doe
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(200).
SA.5
Point of contact—address
123 Main St, City, State Zip Code
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(100).
SA.6
Point of contact—phone
1-999-999-9999
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(50).
SA.7
Point of contact—email
Jdoe@JohnDoe.com
Information needed to identify and, if necessary, communicate with the safekeeping agent
Varchar(100).
Details of Formats
Format
Content in brief
Additional explanation
Examples
YYYY-MM-DD
Date
YYYY = four digit date, MM = 2 digit month, DD = 2 digit date
2015-11-12
Num (25,5)
Up to 25 numerical characters including 5 decimals
Up to 20 numerical characters before the decimal point and up to 5 numerical characters after the decimal point. The dot character is used to separate decimals
1352.67
12345678901234567890.12345
0
−20000.25
−0.257
Char(3)
3 alphanumeric characters
The length is fixed at 3 alphanumeric characters
USD
X1X
999
Varchar(25)
Up to 25 alphanumeric characters
The length is not fixed but limited at up to 25 alphanumeric characters
asgaGEH3268EFdsagtTRCF543
Pt. 149

# PART 149—CALCULATION OF MAXIMUM OBLIGATION LIMITATION
Sec.
149.1
Authority and purpose.
149.2
Definitions.
149.3
Maximum obligation limitation.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 321 and 12 U.S.C. 5390.

# Source:
77 FR 37558, June 22, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 149.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury (Treasury) under section 210(n)(7) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Act).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to issue implementing regulations as required by the Act. The part governs the calculation of the maximum obligation limitation which limits the aggregate amount of outstanding obligations the FDIC may issue or incur in connection with the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company.
§ 149.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Fair value.
The term “fair value” means the expected total aggregate value of each asset, or group of assets that are managed within a portfolio of a covered financial company on a consolidated basis if such asset, or group of assets, was sold or otherwise disposed of in an orderly transaction.
Most recent financial statement available.
(1) The term “most recent financial statement available” means a covered financial company's—
(i) Most recent financial statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body;
(ii) Most recent financial statement audited by an independent CPA firm; or
(iii) Other available financial statements.
(2) The FDIC and the Treasury will jointly determine the most pertinent of the above financial statements, taking into consideration the timeliness and reliability of the statements being considered.
Obligation.
The term “obligation” means, with respect to any covered financial company—
(1) Any guarantee issued by the FDIC on behalf of the covered financial company;
(2) Any amount borrowed pursuant to section 210(n)(5)(A) of the Act; and
(3) Any other obligation with respect to the covered financial company for which the FDIC has a direct or contingent liability to pay any amount.
Total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment.
The term “total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment” means the difference between:
(1) The total assets of the covered financial company on a consolidated basis that are available for liquidation during the operation of the receivership; and
(2) To the extent included in paragraph (1) of this definition, all assets that are separated from, or made unavailable to, the covered financial company by a statutory or regulatory barrier that prevents the covered financial company from possessing or selling assets and using the proceeds from the sale of such assets.
§ 149.3
Maximum obligation limitation.
The FDIC shall not, in connection with the orderly liquidation of a covered financial company, issue or incur any obligation, if, after issuing or incurring the obligation, the aggregate amount of such obligations outstanding for each covered financial company would exceed—
(a) An amount that is equal to 10 percent of the total consolidated assets of the covered financial company, based on the most recent financial statement available, during the 30-day period immediately following the date of appointment of the FDIC as receiver (or a shorter time period if the FDIC has calculated the amount described under paragraph (b) of this section); and
(b) The amount that is equal to 90 percent of the fair value of the total consolidated assets of each covered financial company that are available for repayment, after the time period described in paragraph (a) of this section.
Pt. 150

# PART 150—FINANCIAL RESEARCH FUND
Sec.
150.1
Scope.
150.2
Definitions.
150.3
Determination of assessed companies.
150.4
Calculation of assessment basis.
150.5
Calculation of assessments.
150.6
Notice and payment of assessments.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5345; 31 U.S.C. 321; 12 U.S.C. 5365
note
(Section 401(d), Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1358; Section 401(f), Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1359).

# Source:
85 FR 15380, Mar. 18, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 150.1
Scope.
The assessments contained in this part are made pursuant to the authority contained in 12 U.S.C. 5345.
§ 150.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Assessed company
means:
(1) A bank holding company that has $250 billion or more in total assessable assets; or
(2) A bank holding company, regardless of asset size, that has been identified as a global systemically important bank holding company under § 217.402 of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations; or
(3) A nonbank financial company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act shall be supervised by the Board.
Assessment basis
means, for a given assessment period, an estimate of the total expenses that are necessary or appropriate to carry out the responsibilities of the Office of Financial Research (OFR) and the Council as set out in the Dodd-Frank Act (including an amount necessary to reimburse reasonable implementation expenses of the Corporation that shall be treated as expenses of the Council pursuant to section 210(n)(10) of the Dodd-Frank Act).
Assessment fee rate,
with regard to a particular assessment period, means the rate published by the Department for the calculation of assessment fees for that period.
Assessment payment date
means:
(1) For any assessment period ending on March 31 of a given calendar year, September 15 of the prior calendar year; and
(2) For any assessment period ending on September 30 of a given calendar year, March 15 of the same year.
Assessment period
means:
(1) Any period of time beginning on October 1 and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year; or
(2) Any period of time beginning on April 1 and ending on September 30 of the same calendar year.
Bank holding company
means:
(1) A bank holding company as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841); or
(2) A foreign banking organization.
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Corporation
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Council
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
Department
means the Department of the Treasury.
Determination date
means:
(1) For any assessment period ending on March 31 of a given calendar year, April 30 of the prior calendar year; and
(2) For any assessment period ending on September 30 of a given calendar year, October 31 of the prior calendar year.
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
Foreign banking organization
means a foreign bank or company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, pursuant to section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)).
OFR
means the Office of Financial Research established by section 152 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Total assessable assets
means:
(1) For a bank holding company other than a foreign banking organization, the average of the company's total consolidated assets for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, as reported on the bank holding company's four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies—FR Y-9C filings;
(2) For any foreign banking organization, the average of the company's total assets of combined U.S. operations for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, as reported on the foreign banking organization's four most recent quarterly Capital and Asset Report for Foreign Banking Organizations—FR Y-7Q filings, or, if the foreign banking organization only files such form annually, the average of the two most recent annual filings on such form; or
(3) For a nonbank financial company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act shall be supervised by the Board, either the average of the company's total consolidated assets for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, if the company is a U.S. company, or the average of the total assets of the company's combined U.S. operations for the four quarters preceding the relevant determination date, if the company is a non-U.S. company.
§ 150.3
Determination of assessed companies.
(a) The determination that a bank holding company or a nonbank financial company is an assessed company will be made by the Department.
(b) The Department will apply the following principles in determining whether a company is an assessed company:
(1) For tiered bank holding companies for which a holding company owns or controls, or is owned or controlled by, other holding companies, the assessed company shall be the top-tier, regulated holding company.
(2) In situations where more than one top-tier, regulated bank holding company has a legal authority for control of a U.S. bank, each of the top-tier regulated holding companies shall be designated as an assessed company.
(3) In situations where a company has not filed four consecutive quarters of the financial reports referenced above for the most recent quarters (or two consecutive years for annual filers of the FR Y-7Q or successor form), such as may be true for companies that recently converted to a bank holding company, the Department will use, at its discretion, other financial or annual reports filed by the company, such as Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, to determine a company's total consolidated assets.
(4) In situations where a company does not report total consolidated assets in its public reports or where a company uses a financial reporting methodology other than U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to report on its U.S. operations, the Department will use, at its discretion, any comparable financial information that the Department may require from the company for this determination.
(c) Any company that the Department determines is an assessed company on a given determination date will be an assessed company for the entire assessment period related to such
determination date, and will be subject to the full assessment fee for that assessment period, regardless of any changes in the company's assets or other attributes that occur after the determination date.
§ 150.4
Calculation of assessment basis.
For each assessment period, the Department will calculate an assessment basis that shall be sufficient to replenish the Financial Research Fund to a level equivalent to the sum of:
(a) Budgeted operating expenses for the OFR for the applicable assessment period;
(b) Budgeted operating expenses for the Council for the applicable assessment period;
(c) Budgeted capital expenses for the OFR for the 12-month period beginning on the first day of the applicable assessment period;
(d) Budgeted capital expenses for the Council for the 12-month period beginning on the first day of the applicable assessment period; and
(e) An amount necessary to reimburse reasonable implementation expenses of the Corporation as provided under section 210(n)(10) of the Dodd-Frank Act.
§ 150.5
Calculation of assessments.
(a) For each assessed company, the Department will calculate the total assessable assets in accordance with the definition in § 150.2.
(b) The Department will allocate the assessment basis to the assessed companies in the following manner:
(1) Based on the sum of all assessed companies' total assessable assets, the Department will calculate the assessment fee rate necessary to collect the assessment basis for the applicable assessment period.
(2) The assessment payable by an assessed company for each assessment period shall be equal to the assessment fee rate for that assessment period multiplied by the total assessable assets of such assessed company.
§ 150.6
Notice and payment of assessments.
(a) No later than fifteen calendar days after the determination date, the Department will send to each assessed company a statement that:
(1) Confirms that such company has been determined by the Department to be an assessed company; and
(2) States the total assessable assets that the Department has determined will be used for calculating the company's assessment.
(b) If a company that is required to make an assessment payment for a given assessment period believes that the statement referred to in paragraph (a) of this section contains an error, the company may provide the Department with a written request for a revised statement. Such request must be received by the Department via email within 30 calendar days and must include all facts that the company requests the Department to consider. The Department will respond to all such requests within 21 calendar days of receipt thereof.
(c) No later than the 14 calendar days prior to the payment date for a given assessment period, the Department will send an electronic billing notification to each assessed company, containing the final assessment that is required to be paid by such assessed company.
(d) For the purpose of making the payments described in § 150.5, each assessed company shall designate a deposit account for direct debit by the Department through
www.pay.gov
or successor website. No later than the later of 30 days prior to the payment date for an assessment period, or April 17, 2020, each such company shall provide notice to the Department of the account designated, including all information and authorizations required by the Department for direct debit of the account. After the initial notice of the designated account, no further notice is required unless the company designates a different account for assessment debit by the Department, in which case the requirements of the preceding sentence apply.
(e) Each assessed company shall take all actions necessary to allow the Department to debit assessments from such company's designated deposit account. Each such company shall, prior to each assessment payment date, ensure that funds in an amount at least equal to the amount on the relevant
electronic billing notification are available in the designated deposit account for debit by the Department. Failure to take any such action or to provide such funding of the account shall be deemed to constitute nonpayment of the assessment. The Department will cause the amount stated in the applicable electronic billing notification to be directly debited on the appropriate payment date from the deposit account so designated.
(f) In the event that, for a given assessment period, an assessed company materially misstates or misrepresents any information that is used by the Department in calculating that company's total assessable assets, the Department may at any time re-calculate the assessment payable by that company for that assessment period, and the assessed company shall take all actions necessary to allow the Department to immediately debit any additional payable amounts from such assessed company's designated deposit account.
(g) If a due date under this section falls on a date that is not a business day, the applicable date shall be the next business day.
PARTS 151-199 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
31 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
31 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.36 (c)(1)(ii) table and (g)(1)(ii) table amended
86512
27.3 (c) revised
10064
33.118 Added; interim
71196
33.120 (c)(1) heading and (2) added; interim
71196
50 Authority citation revised
10064
50.83 (a) amended
10064
Subtitle B
Chapter I
148 Notification
1
150 Revised
15380
2021
31 CFR
86 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.36 (c)(1)(ii) table and (g)(1)(ii) table amended
35398
16.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
12539
27.3 (c) revised
12539
33.108 (f)(3)(i), (iv) introductory text, and (A) through (C) revised
6176
33.108 (f)(3)(iv) introductory text and (A) through (C) revised
53501
33.118 Heading, (a), and (b)(3) revised; (b)(5) and (g) added
53501
33.120 (a)(1) and (2) revised
6176
33.120 (a) and (c)(2)(i) revised; (c)(2)(ii)(F) and (iii) added
53502
33.122 Added
53502
33.128 (a) revised
6176, 53502
33.130 Added
53502
33.132 Added
53502
35 Added; interim
13455
35 Authority citation revised
26819
35 Heading revised; interim
26819
35.1—35.12 (Subpart A) Added; interim
26819
50 Authority citation revised
12539
50.1 (a) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30540
50.4 (b)(2)(ii), (n)(3)(iii), (w)(1), and (2) revised; (n)(3)(iv) added; eff. 7-12-21
30540
50.4 Correction: (w)(2) introductory text revised; eff. 7-12-21
31620
50.6 (b) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30540
50.16 (c) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30540
50.20 (b) and (c) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30540
50.30 (c) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30540
50.74 (b) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30540
50.83 (a) revised
12539
50.83 (b) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30540
50.90 (c) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30541
50.103 (a) revised; eff. 7-12-21
30541
2022
31 CFR
87 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.20—1.36 (Subpart C) Revised
63905
16.2 Amended
10309
35 Authority citation revised; interim
13632
35.1—35.12 (Subpart A) Revised
4446
35.26—35.29 (Subpart C) Added; interim
13633
2023
31 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.36 (c)(1)(vii) Table 7 and (g)(1)(ix) Table 17 amended
81347
1.36 Correction: Revised
88815
16.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
16886
27.3 (c) revised
16886
35.1—35.12 (Subpart A) Revised; interim
65026
35.3 Amended; interim
80589
35.5 (c) revised; interim
80589
50 Authority citation revised
16886
50.83 (a) revised
16887
2024
31 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.36 (e)(1)(ii) table 8 and (g)(1)(ii) table 11 amended
101889
16.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
4819
27.3 (c) revised
4819
33.112 (c)(3) added
26418
33.120 (c) introductory text revised
26418
50 Authority citation revised
4819
50.83 (a) revised
4820
Subtitle B
Chapter I
100.11 Removed
78244
100.12 (b) revised
78245
100.13 (a) removed; (b) through (d) redesignated as new (a) through (c); new (b) amended
78245
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
31 CFR
90 FR
Page
Subtitle A
1.36 (g)(1)(vii) table 16 and (k)(1)(iii) table 23 amended
20396
16.3 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) revised
25484
27.3 (c) revised
25484
30 Removed
15650
31.211 Removed
15650
31.212 Removed
15650
31.213 Removed
15650
31.214 Removed
15650
31.215 Removed
15650
31.216 Removed
15650
50 Authority citation amended
25484
50.83 (a) amended
25484
○
