(4) The loan terms found in § 5001.402 of this part apply to both the borrower and the QALICB. The maturity and related payment schedule of the lender's guaranteed loan to the borrower must be no longer than the maturity and related payment schedule of the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB. An Agency approved unequal or escalating schedule of principal and interest payments can be used for a NMTC loan. The lender may require additional principal repayment by a co-borrower, such as an owner or principal participant of the QALICB. The provisions of § 5001.402(b)(3) notwithstanding, the Agency may consider the payment of interest-only payments by a borrower pursuant to an interest-only term not to exceed seven years on a loan made under an NMTC structure if the lender requires:
(i) A debt repayment reserve fund or sinking fund in an amount at least equal to the guaranteed loan's principal amortization that would have otherwise applied to the loan if equally amortized payments were collected during the seven-year term; and
(ii) Such reserve funds or sinking funds are applied to the guaranteed loan as an additional payment of principal at the end of such interest-only term. The debt repayment reserve fund or sinking fund may be accumulated during the loan terms, or the full amount may be funded at loan closing.
(5) Except for the collateral provisions, § 5001.202(b)(4), § 5001.202(b) of this part applies to both the lender's guaranteed loan to the borrower and the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB. The collateral provisions found in § 5001.202(b)(4) of this part apply only to the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB.
(6) The personal, partnership and corporate guarantee provisions of § 5001.204 of this part apply when the guaranteed loan borrower is a leveraged lender entity in a NMTC project. Guaranteed loans made directly to an investor fund entity as the borrower do not require a personal, partnership, or corporate guarantee from the investor fund entity's owner, who is the NMTC tax credit investor and considered a passive investor. The Agency shall obtain the personal, partnership or corporate guarantee from the QALICB ownership for a guaranteed loan to an investor fund entity in compliance with § 5001.204, subject to the eligibility requirements of the NMTC program. The Agency may require additional personal, partnership or corporate guarantees if warranted by an Agency evaluation of potential financial risk. The QALICB is the ultimate user of the guaranteed loan funds, and their owners should provide a guarantee of the guaranteed loan as stipulated in § 5001.204.
(7) The insurance provisions of § 5001.205(d) of this part apply only to the QALICB and the sub-CDE's secured loan to the QALICB.
(8) The financial report provisions of § 5001.504 of this part apply to both the borrower and the QALICB.
(9) The application requirements found in subpart D to this part, as applicable, apply to both the borrower and the QALICB, including the application analysis and evaluation components of § 5001.303. The Agency also requires submission of the loan terms and documents between the sub-CDE and QALICB. As part of the application completed by the lender, the documentation must include comparable industry information and a summary of the NMTC project's funding path and an explanation of the relationships between all parties in the NMTC transaction (an accompanying schematic is encouraged for complicated transactions).
(10) The environmental responsibilities specified in § 5001.207 of this part apply to the NMTC project.
(11) For any application that the Agency assigns a priority score, when assigning the priority score to a NMTC loan application, the Agency will score the project based on the entire NMTC structure and the QALICB's project as the ultimate use of guaranteed loan funds.
(12) The lender is responsible for ensuring that the NMTC project complies with the planning, performing, development and project monitoring provisions in § 5001.205 of this part and the lender is also responsible for ensuring the NMTC project complies with all applicable Treasury NMTC requirements.
(13) Sections 5001.401 through 5001.408 of this part apply to both the borrower and the QALICB in a NMTC transaction.
(14) Agency concurrence of the NMTC structure is required on all projects leveraging the NMTC program.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70356, Dec. 10, 2021; 87 FR 7367, Feb. 9, 2022; 89 FR 79716, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.142-5001.200
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Orgination Provisions
§ 5001.201
General origination requirements.
The lender is responsible for originating a guaranteed loan in accordance with the requirements of this part and
in accordance with its internal origination policies and procedures to the extent they do not conflict with the requirements of this part. For each application, the lender must prepare a credit evaluation that is consistent with Agency standards found in this part. The Agency reserves the right to review the lender's credit evaluation and request additional information. Lender approval does not constitute Agency approval.
§ 5001.202
Lender's credit evaluation.
For each application, the lender must prepare a credit evaluation that is consistent with Agency standards found in this part. Lenders are required to only submit complete loan applications that have been approved by their institution after completion of their internal credit evaluation. The components of a lender's credit evaluation will include a written review and comment on the “Five Cs” of credit that are outlined in § 5001.202(b)(1) through (5). The Agency should be able to obtain sufficient details on the project, the borrower, and the borrower's ability to repay the loan from the lender's credit evaluation.
(a)
Lender's evaluation guidelines.
The lender must conduct a credit evaluation using credit documentation procedures and underwriting processes that are consistent with generally accepted prudent lending practices for commercial, public and project financing, and also consistent with the lender's own policies, procedures, and lending practices. The underwriting process must include a review of each loan for which a loan guarantee is being sought under this part. Applications involving affiliated entities must include a global credit evaluation and if applicable a global historical and projected debt service coverage analysis. The lender should evaluate the relationships between all associated parties to determine potential risks which may affect our borrower and its ability to repay the loan. Entities which may have an impact on the borrower or significantly contribute to the repayment ability of the loan should provide financials for global analysis. Applications involving guarantor(s) must also include a global debt service coverage analysis of the guarantor(s) including the cash flow of the guarantor(s). In addition, the lender must review all applicable contracts, management agreements, and leases to determine they will not adversely affect either the borrower's repayment ability or the value of the collateral securing the guaranteed loan. The lender's evaluation must address any financial or other credit weaknesses of the borrower and project and discuss risk mitigation requirements imposed by the lender.
(b)
Credit factors.
In performing its credit evaluation, the lender must analyze all credit factors associated with each proposed guaranteed loan and apply its professional judgment to determine that the credit factors and guaranteed loan terms and conditions, considered in combination, ensure guaranteed loan repayment. Credit factors to be analyzed include, but are not necessarily limited to, those areas identified and defined in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
Character.
Those qualities that generally impel the borrower to meet its obligations as demonstrated by its credit history, including project and borrower debt structure and debt repayment ability. When applicable, an evaluation may include the character of persons with management control or a 20 percent or more ownership interest in the borrower. When the borrower's credit history or character is negative, the lender will provide satisfactory explanations to indicate that any problems are unlikely to recur. The ownership or membership structure of the project and borrower (including membership, sponsors, other equity investors), and the historical performance and experience of ownership and management specific to the project and industry. The historical performance and experience of any entities providing management or administrative services pursuant to contract should also be evaluated. For CF projects the commitment of the rural community or rural area to be served by the project should be evaluated. Borrower's management, and its for-profit, non-profit or governing board, as applicable, will be evaluated to ensure key management personnel are adequately trained and experienced.
(2)
Capacity.
A borrower's ability to produce sufficient cash to repay the guaranteed loan as agreed, including the feasibility and likelihood of the project and borrower to produce sufficient revenues to service the project's debt obligations over the life of the guaranteed loan and, when applicable, result in sufficient returns to investors to ensure successful repayment of the guaranteed loan. The lender shall address any economic safeguards of the project, including capital expenditure budgeting or reserve funds and other contingency reserve funds such as maintenance reserve funds or debt service reserve funds, intended to protect and safeguard the Agency and lender in the event of default. The lender must make all efforts to:
(i) Ensure that the borrower has adequate working capital, operating capital and reserves for capital expenditures, debt service, and maintenance as applicable; and
(ii) Structure or restructure debt so the borrower has adequate debt coverage, documenting as applicable the necessity of any debt refinancing. The evaluation will be supported by a cash flow analysis.
(3)
Capital.
The borrower must have the resources to adequately capitalize the project and demonstrate the ability to generate and maintain sufficient cash flow for its operations. The extent to which project costs are funded by the borrower in relation to project costs funded by the guaranteed loan or other Federal and non-Federal governmental assistance such as grants, tax credits, or other loans must be analyzed.
(4)
Collateral.
This criterion refers to the security pledged for the guaranteed loan. The lender is responsible for obtaining and maintaining proper and adequate collateral for the guaranteed loan. All collateral must secure the entire guaranteed loan. The lender is prohibited from taking separate collateral for the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the guaranteed loan or requiring compensating balances or certificates of deposit as a means of eliminating the lender's exposure on the unguaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan. Collateral can include, but is not limited to: General obligation bonds; revenue bonds; pledges of taxes or assessments; assignments of facility revenue and byproduct revenue, as well as other assets such as land, easements, rights-of-way, water rights, buildings, machinery, equipment, inventory; accounts receivable, other accounts, contracts, cash, assignments of leases and leasehold interests. Intangible assets may serve as collateral, provided they do not serve as primary collateral. For purposes of determining compliance with this requirement, leasehold improvements such as buildings and other structures on leased property are considered tangible assets and can serve as primary collateral. It is the lender's responsibility to obtain, document, file, record and take all actions necessary to properly perfect and maintain adequate collateral to protect the interests of the lender and the Agency.
(i) The lender must determine the market value of collateral as established by an appraisal in accordance with § 5001.203.
(ii) The lender should discount collateral consistent with sound loan-to-discounted value practices which must be adequate to secure the guaranteed loan in accordance with this section. To assess collateral adequacy and appropriate levels of discounting, the lender should give consideration to the type, quality, location, marketability, and alternative uses of the collateral and the basis for the valuation of the collateral,
e.g.
collateral valued on a cost or replacement valuation or market or comparable sales valuation may require variance of discount factors. The lender must provide satisfactory justification of the discounts being used.
(5)
Conditions.
This paragraph (b)(5) refers to the general business environment, including the regulatory environment affecting the business or industry, and status of the borrower's industry. Consideration will be given to items listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section and when applicable the lender should submit supporting documentation (
e.g.,
feasibility study, market study, preliminary architectural or engineering reports, etc.) in accordance with
§§ 5001.304
through
5001.307:
(i) Availability and depth of resource/feedstock market, strength and duration of purchase agreements and availability of substitutes;
(ii) Analysis of current and future market potential and off-take agreements, competition, type of project (service, product, or commodity based);
(iii) Energy infrastructure, availability and dependability, transportation and other infrastructure, and environmental considerations;
(iv) Technical feasibility including demonstrated performance of the technology and integrated processing equipment and systems, developer system performance guarantees, or technology insurance;
(v) Complexity of construction and completion, terms of construction contracts, experience and financial strength of the construction contractor or engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) contractor;
(vi) Contracts and intellectual property rights, licenses, permits, and state and local regulations;
(vii) Creditworthiness of any counterparties, as applicable;
(viii) Industry-related public policy issues; and
(ix) Other criteria that the lender or Agency deems relevant to the project.
(6)
Content.
The credit evaluation must be sufficiently detailed to describe the proposed loan, business and project scenario and document that the proposed loan is sound. The credit evaluation must include:
(i) A written evaluation of each credit factor listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section and any additional factors as appropriate; and
(ii) A written evaluation of the feasibility study, business plan, technical report, and engineering and architectural reports, as applicable; and
(iii) Spreadsheets and analysis of the financial statements provided in accordance with § 5001.303, with appropriate ratios and comparisons with industry standards (such as Dun
Bradstreet or the Risk Management Association). The spreadsheets should enable a reviewer to easily scan the data, spot trends, and make comparisons. Steps taken or proposed to address any financial or industry weakness must be reasonable and adequately addressed.
(iv) Financial projections deviating from historical financial performance must be substantiated and documented. The borrower's projections should be consistent with their past performance. Increases to revenues, profit margins or profitability should be reasonable and substantiated in the analysis.
(v) Projected operational cash flow analysis on a quarterly basis for borrowers with seasonal cyclical cash flow.
(vi) Operational cash flow analysis on a quarterly basis from the current financial statements through start-up or occupancy for projects involving construction when lenders are requesting the loan note guarantee prior to completion of construction The lender and borrower are required to provide a construction schedule with their application for a loan guarantee prior to construction completion. The projected cash flow needs should mirror the quarterly construction costs as the project is being completed. The cash flow analysis must indicate whether this cash flow is being provided by the guaranteed loan, borrower equity, or other sources.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70356, Dec. 10, 2021; 87 FR 7367, Feb. 9, 2022; 89 FR 79717, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.203
Appraisals.
Appraisals of collateral are required as set forth in this section. The lender is responsible for ensuring that appraisal values adequately reflect the actual value of the collateral based on an arm's length transaction. Completed appraisals should be submitted when the application is filed. If the appraisal has not been completed when the application is filed, the lender must submit an estimated appraised value. Prior to the issuance of the loan note guarantee, the estimated value must be supported with an appraisal acceptable to the approval official. If an appraisal is received containing any value attributed to business valuation or as a going concern, the business valuation or going concern value must be deducted from the reconciled market value prior to discounting. The Agency expects that, for appraisals of
existing facilities, the appraiser will physically visit the property unless prior permission from the Agency is obtained. Appraisals are not typically required when security consists of either a revenue or general obligation bond or liens on real estate for WWD projects which rely on revenues of the facilities for loan repayment.
(a)
Newly-acquired chattel.
A bill of sale may be submitted to support the value of newly-acquired chattel.
(b)
Existing chattel.
The lender must obtain appraisal(s) for existing chattel collateral when its value exceeds $250,000 and will be used to meet loan to value requirements.
(c)
Real estate.
The lender must obtain appraisals for real estate collateral when the value of the collateral exceeds $250,000 or the current limitation established under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) Public Law 101-73, 103 Stat. 183 (1989). Real estate and chattels with a value below these thresholds must be evaluated in accordance with the lender's primary regulator's policies relating to appraisals and evaluations or, if the lender is not regulated, in accordance with normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. For construction projects, the lender must obtain the “As is” market value and the “prospective” market value as of the date of construction completion to determine the value of the real estate property.
(d)
Appraisal standards.
(1) Each real estate appraisal must be conducted by an independent qualified appraiser in accordance with the USPAP or similar Agency approved standard. The appraiser must have the specific qualification, experience, and competency to appraise the type of facility being financed. All real estate appraisals must meet the requirements contained in the FIRREA, and the appropriate guidelines contained in Standards 1 and 2 of the USPAP or similar Agency approved standard, and, unless approved by the Agency approval official, be performed by a State Certified General Appraiser licensed in the State in which the real estate is located.
(2) Chattel appraisals must be conducted by an independent qualified appraiser and must be based on industry recognized standards and reflect the age, condition, and remaining useful life of the equipment.
(e)
Interagency appraisal and evaluations guidelines.
Notwithstanding any exemption that may exist for transactions guaranteed by a Federal Government agency, all appraisals obtained by the lender under this part must conform to the interagency appraisal and evaluations guidelines established by the lender's primary Federal or State regulator, if applicable.
(f)
Environmental considerations.
When the Agency will take a lien on real property, the real estate appraisals must include consideration of the potential effects from a release of hazardous substances or petroleum products or other environmental hazards on the market value of the collateral, as determined in accordance with the appropriate ASTM International Real Estate Assessment and Management environmental standards. Potential contamination that has been observed on the property or identified through research or interviews with individuals knowledgeable about the property should be immediately reported to the Agency.
(g)
Appraisal review report.
The lender must submit its complete technical review of the appraisal in an appraisal review report prepared in compliance with USPAP Standards 3 and 4 to the Agency before guaranteed loan closing.
(1) Appraisals must not be more than one year old. However, the Agency may request a more recent appraisal in order to reflect more current market conditions.
(2) The lender must provide documentation that, in addition to the other requirements of this section pertaining to appraisers, the appraiser has the necessary experience and competency to appraise collateral.
(h)
Appraisal fees.
Unless otherwise stated in this part, appraisal fees or any other associated costs will not be paid by the Agency. Appraisal fees are eligible loan purposes. The Agency does not pay for appraisals required at the time of loan application. Appraisals for
servicing actions are handled in accordance with section 5001 subpart F.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79718, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.204
Personal, partnership, and corporate guarantees.
The provisions of this section do not apply to passive investors.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, Agency-approved, unsecured personal, partnership, and corporate guarantees for the full term of the guaranteed loan and at least equal to the guarantor's percent interest or membership in the borrower times the guaranteed loan amount are required from any person or entity owning a 20-percent or greater interest or membership in the borrower. In the event a portion of the borrower's ownership interest stock is sold or transferred, the Agency reserves the right to require personal or corporate guarantees from the new owners of a 20-percent or more interest in the borrower.
(b) When warranted by an Agency assessment of potential financial risk, the Agency may require the following:
(1) Guarantees to be secured;
(2) Guarantees from any person or entity owning less than a 20-percent interest or membership in the borrower; and
(3) Guarantees from persons whose ownership interest in the borrower is held indirectly through intermediate or affiliated entities.
(c) Exceptions to the requirement for personal, partnership or corporate guarantees may be requested by the lender. The lender must document, to the Agency's satisfaction, that collateral, equity, cash flow, and profitability indicate an above-average ability of the borrower to repay the loan. The Agency will evaluate these requests on a case-by-case basis.
(d) Each guarantor must execute an Agency-approved guarantee form in addition to any guarantee form required by the lender.
(e) Any amounts paid by the Agency pursuant to a claim by a guaranteed program lender will constitute a Federal debt owed to the Agency by a guarantor of the loan, to the extent of the amount of the guarantor's guarantee.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70357, Dec. 10, 2021; 87 FR 7368, Feb. 9, 2022; 89 FR 79718, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.205
General project monitoring requirements.
In complying with the requirements of this section, the lender may rely on written materials and other reports provided by an independent engineer and other qualified consultants.
(a)
Design requirements.
The lender must ensure that all facilities constructed with guaranteed loan funds are:
(1) Designed using accepted architectural, engineering, and design practices, taking into consideration any Agency comments when the facility is being designed;
(2) Designed in conformance to applicable Federal, Tribal, State, and local codes and requirements;
(3) Constructed to support operations at the level and quality contemplated by the borrower using accepted architectural and engineering practices; and
(4) Compliant with applicable domestic procurement preference requirements including section 70914 of the Build America, Buy America Act (BABAA) within the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 117-58).
(b)
Rights-of-ways, easements, and property rights.
The lender is responsible for ensuring that the borrower has:
(1) Obtained valid, continuous, and adequate rights-of-way and easements, in compliance with Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) if applicable, needed for the construction, operation, and maintenance of a project; and
(2) Obtained and recorded such releases, consents, or subordinations to such property rights from holders of outstanding liens or other instruments as may be necessary for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the project and to provide the required security.
(c)
Permits, agreements, and licenses.
It is the lender's responsibility to ensure the borrower obtains all permits,
agreements, and licenses that are applicable to the project.
(d)
Insurance.
It is the lender's responsibility to ensure the borrower obtains and maintains borrower and project insurance in substance and amount similar to that ordinarily required by lenders in the industry.
(e)
Construction monitoring requirements.
The lender, or its designated agent, will monitor the progress of construction of the project and undertake the reviews and inspections necessary to ensure that construction conforms to applicable Federal, Tribal, State, and local code requirements and that construction proceeds in accordance with the plans, specifications, and contract documents.
(1)
Construction inspections.
The lender must notify the Agency of any scheduled field inspections during construction. The Agency may attend any field inspections the lender may conduct. Any Agency inspection, including those with the lender, are for the benefit of the Agency only (and not for the benefit of other parties in interest) and do not relieve any parties of interest of their responsibilities to conduct necessary inspections. On a case-by-case basis in the event that the Agency determines that there is additional risk to the government, the Agency may require the use of a qualified, independent inspector to inspect construction to ensure the project is being adequately built to meet the borrower's requirements of the borrower's approved project and comply with all applicable codes and legal requirements.
(2)
Issuance of loan note guarantee prior to completion of the project's construction.
Except for projects utilizing non-proven technologies, the lender may request that the loan note guarantee be issued prior to completion of a project's construction. The lender's request will be considered by the Agency, who may require credit risk mitigation. An additional fee for issuance of the loan note guarantee prior to completion of the project's construction will be assessed in accordance with § 5001.454(c) in subpart E. The lender must verify and include evidence of the following in its request:
(i) The promissory note specifying the full term of the note and containing the terms and conditions of each draw period;
(ii) The borrower and lender have entered into a contract with an independent disbursement and monitoring firm with a construction monitoring plan acceptable to and approved by the Agency or, the lender documents that they have the capacity and experience to disburse funds and provides a monitoring plan acceptable to the Agency;
(iii) The borrower and lender have agreed to a detailed timetable for the project with a corresponding budget of costs setting forth the parties responsible for payment. The timetable and budget will be confirmed as adequate for the planned development by a qualified independent consultant (
e.g.,
the project architect or engineer) with demonstrated experience relating to the project's industry. The lender must provide evidence that there is sufficient cash flow to complete the project construction, including contingencies for cost overruns, plus working capital during the business start-up period;
(iv) The borrower has entered into a firm, fixed-price construction contract with an independent general contractor with costs outlined in detail and terms specifying change order approvals, the agreed retainage percentage, and the disbursement schedule. In all cases, borrower equity must be injected prior to any guaranteed loan funds;
(v) Evidence the lender has properly vetted the financial feasibility and past performance of the contractor to show they are able to complete the project or that the lender has mitigated risk in the event the project is never completed, such as requiring a 100-percent performance/payment bond on the borrower's contractor to be maintained until the contractor is released from its obligation. The bonding agent must be listed on Treasury Circular 570;
(vi) Evidence, which the Agency at its sole discretion determines is satisfactory, that the lender has completed the due diligence necessary to confirm that the contractor is able to complete the project based on information including but not limited to the financial statements and past performance of the contractor;
(vii) When applicable, the borrower has entered into a contract with an independent technology development firm guaranteeing completion of the project with the necessary technology to successfully run the project and system performance for projects that utilize integrated processing equipment and systems, such as biorefineries, RESs, and chemical manufacturing plants. The credit underwriting of the independent technology development firm must be satisfactory to and approved by the Agency. This is not limited only to renewable energy projects, but may include energy efficiency, renewable chemical, and biobased manufacturing projects. The intent of the provision is to ensure that all technology proposed for the project can be successfully integrated together to ensure successful installation and performance of the system. The respective technology providers usually guarantee their specific technology with quality parameters of input such that the end-product is what is proposed in both quality and yield. An engineering, procurement, construction (EPC) provider is responsible for the construction and assembly of the plant or facility. They adopt the quality limits and guarantee that the integrated facility that is built will perform according to specifications such that the input and operational bounds are met. The provision is likely applicable to the following types of projects:
(A)
Anaerobic digester.
An anaerobic digester project which uses a biological process that requires specific conditions and environment to be able to produce the product of biogas that can be refined to renewable natural gas (RNG). In some simpler cases the gas will be used for heat or electricity, but in other more involved cases, it will be cleaned and refined to make RNG that is marketable, and quality assessed to enter an interconnect pipeline. These types of projects should be approved and verified by an independent technology firm, for integrated performance integrity and operability as well as yield integrity.
(B)
Landfill biogas.
Like anaerobic digesters projects, a landfill biogas project will have multiple steps and processes such as collection, clean-up, flaring and refinement to a fuel or the gas can be used to produce electricity. These types of projects should be approved and verified by an independent technology firm for integrated performance integrity and operability, as well as yield integrity.
(C)
Biofuel, biomass, ethanol, biodiesel.
A biofuel, ethanol, biomass, or biodiesel system will have multiple steps in which it must operate in line with the design proposed that has been from demonstration campaigns. It is paramount that an independent technology firm verify and guarantee the operation and performance of these integrated systems as they will have multiple processes which need to work in concert for the project to be successful. These types of projects should be approved and verified by an independent technology firm for integrated performance integrity and yield.
(D)
Solar thermal.
Solar thermal systems must have multiple processes in order to provide the end product of power, hot water, or heat. Due to their potential complexity, these systems should be approved and verified by an independent technology firm for performance integrity and operability.
(E)
Hydrogen.
These types of projects should be approved and verified by an independent technology firm for integrated performance integrity.
(F)
Geothermal.
Depending on system complexity and if it has multiple processes, the project should be fortified with a guarantee that the system will operate definitively.
(G)
Renewable chemical.
A project utilizing a series of chemical processes and reactions to produce a polymer that can be sold to make biodegradable plastics. An example of a BBP project utilizing gasification technology to produce a biochar or soil amendment as an end-user product.
(viii) Evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agency, that there is sufficient contingency funding in place to handle unforeseen cost overruns without seeking additional guaranteed assistance.
(f)
Reporting during construction.
Regardless of when the loan note guarantee is issued, all lenders must report any problems in project development to the Agency within 15 calendar days
of identifying the problem. If the loan note guarantee has been issued prior to construction or completion of the project, the lender must provide monthly construction reports that contain:
(1) Certifications for each draw request as follows:
(i) Certification by the independent engineer or qualified consultant to the lender that the work referred to in the draw has been successfully completed; and;
(ii) Certification by the borrower and independent engineer or qualified consultant that the guaranteed loan funds of the prior draw have been applied to eligible project costs in accordance with the draw request and that the contractors have delivered mechanics lien waivers in connection with such draw;
(2) List of invoices;
(3) Details regarding the borrower's equity, other funds, and guaranteed loan funds disbursed to date;
(4) Status of construction; and
(5) Inspection reports; and
(6) Concerns, potential problems, cost overruns, etc.
(g)
Use of guaranteed loan funds.
The lender must ensure that:
(1) All borrower funds are utilized prior to guaranteed loan funds;
(2) Guaranteed loan funds are only used for eligible project costs in accordance with the purposes approved by the Agency in the conditional commitment and in accordance with the plans, specifications, and contract documents; and
(3) The project will be completed within the approved budget.
(h)
Project completion.
Once construction of the project is completed, the lender must obtain and have on file all mechanics lien waivers or releases from all contractors and materialmen. The lender will provide to the Agency:
(1) A copy of the notice of completion or similar document issued by the relevant jurisdiction;
(2) Certification that all funds were used for authorized purposes; and
(3) A written certification that the project will be used for its intended purpose and will meet the borrower's needs and guaranteed loan purposes in accordance with the application approved by the Agency.
(4) RES or EEI projects and projects that utilize integrated processing systems and equipment, such as biorefineries, renewable energy systems, and chemical manufacturing facilities, unless utilizing the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section, must be constructed, installed, and operated as described in the technical report or on the vendor certification prior to disbursement of guaranteed loan funds. For RES, the system must be operating at the steady state operating level described in the technical report or on the vendor certification for a period of not less than 30 calendar days, unless this requirement is modified by the Agency, prior to disbursement of funds.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70357, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79718, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.206
Compliance with USDA Departmental Regulations, Policies, and other Federal laws.
(a)
Departmental regulations.
All projects receiving a loan guarantee under this part are subject to the provisions of USDA's Departmental Regulations, as applicable.
(b)
Other Federal laws.
Lenders and borrowers must comply with other applicable Federal laws including, but not limited to the following:
(1) Equal Employment Opportunity.
(2) Americans with Disabilities Act.
(3) Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
(4) Fair Housing Act.
(5) Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA).
(6) Section 70914 of the Build America, Buy America Act (BABAA) within the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 117-58).
(7) 31 U.S.C. 3354 Do Not Pay Initiative.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79719, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.207
Environmental responsibilities.
Actions taken under this part must comply with 7 CFR part 1970. The Agency is responsible for ensuring that the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (under 40
CFR part 1500) and related compliance actions, such as Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (under 36 CFR part 800) and section 7 of the Endangered Species Act, are met. The Agency will complete the appropriate level of environmental review in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures.”
(a)
Borrower and lender responsibilities.
Both the borrower and lender must take into consideration the potential environmental impacts of the project at the earliest planning stages. The Agency recommends that the lender contact the Agency to determine environmental requirements as soon as practicable after deciding to apply for a guarantee under this part.
(1) The lender is responsible for becoming familiar and ensuring compliance with Federal environmental requirements. The lender must alert the Agency to any environmental issues related to a project or items that may require extensive environmental review. Proposals that minimize the potential of any project to adversely impact the environment must be developed and provided upon request by the Agency.
(2) The lender must ensure that the borrower has—
(i) Provided the necessary environmental information to enable the Agency to undertake its environmental review process in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, including the provision of all required Federal, State, and local permits;
(ii) Not taken any actions or incurred any obligations with respect to the project that would either limit the range of alternatives to be considered during the Agency's environmental review process or which would have an adverse impact on the environment, such as the initiation of construction. Taking any such actions or incurring any such obligations could result in project ineligibility; and
(iii) Complied with any environmental mitigation measures required by the Agency.
(b)
Environmental reviews.
The Agency must complete all required environmental reviews, identifying and addressing, as appropriate, disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on minority populations and low-income populations, in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(1) The Agency may schedule a site visit if the Agency determines one is necessary in order to determine the scope of the environmental review.
(2) The lender must assist in the collection of additional data when the Agency needs such data to complete its environmental review of the project and mitigation of environmental issues.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79720, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.208
Conflicts of interest.
The lender must report all conflicts of interests, in writing, to the Agency.
§§ 5001.209-5001.300
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Guarantee Application Provisions
§ 5001.301
Beginning the application process.
(a) The lender must file applications and related documents through their Agency contact.
(b) The lender may complete either a request for preliminary eligibility review in accordance with § 5001.302 or a full application in accordance with §§ 5001.303 through 5001.307, as applicable, to begin the process for obtaining a guaranteed loan. The Agency encourages, but does not require, lenders to file requests for preliminary eligibility reviews in order to obtain Agency comments before submitting a full application.
[89 FR 79720, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.302
Preliminary eligibility review.
(a)
Contents.
Except as otherwise indicated, each request for a preliminary eligibility review must contain the material identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. This information may be submitted in a narrative format or utilizing the lender's preliminary lender's analysis or preliminary credit memo.
(1) Regardless of format, the lenders must provide the following information:
(i) Name of the proposed borrower and co-borrower(s) as applicable, organization type, address, contact person, email address, and telephone number;
(ii) Name of the proposed lender, address, telephone number, contact person, email address;
(iii) Amount of the guaranteed loan request; and if known, the percentage of guarantee requested; the proposed rates and terms of the guaranteed loan; and the source(s) of other funding;
(iv) If known, a description of collateral to be offered with estimated value(s), identity of guarantors, and the amount and source of equity, other capital, and matching funds to be contributed to the project; and
(v) A brief description of the project, its location, products or services provided, service area, and, as applicable, availability of raw materials and supplies.
(2) Sufficient information and documentation to enable the Agency to assess borrower, lender, and project eligibility, including summaries or spreadsheets of financial statements or audits, relationships and identity of any affiliates; and copies of organizational documents, organizational charts, and existing debt instruments.
(3) For REAP projects:
(i) Borrower information as outlined in § 5001.307(a) and (b), and project information as outlined in § 5001.307(c).
(ii) For REAP RES projects where a residence is located at or is closely associated with and shares an energy metering devise with a rural small business or agricultural operation, demonstration that 50 percent or greater of the energy to be generated by the RES will benefit the rural small business or agricultural operation.
(b)
Assessment.
Based on the information submitted for the preliminary eligibility review, the Agency will make an informal assessment of the types of guarantee funding applicable to the request, and the eligibility of the borrower, project, and lender. The Agency will provide written informal comments. The assessment may change based on subsequently submitted information, is solely advisory in nature, does not obligate the Agency to approve a guarantee request, and is not considered a favorable or adverse decision by the Agency.
§ 5001.303
Applications for loan guarantee.
The Agency will accept applications on a continuous basis. For each loan guarantee request, the lender must submit to the Agency a complete application that is in conformance with this section, and §§ 5001.304 through 5001.307, as applicable.
(a)
Complete applications.
Lenders must submit complete applications in order to be considered for loan guarantees. Lenders are encouraged to submit a complete application in a single package; however, the Agency may accept the environmental information required by the Agency and initiate and complete its environmental reviews in advance of receiving a complete application. If an application is incomplete, the Agency will notify the lender in writing of the items necessary to address the incomplete application. Upon receipt of a complete application, the Agency will complete its evaluation.
(b)
Content.
Lenders must provide an analysis of the scope of the project in relation to the borrower's overall operations. The application and lender's analysis should be supported by adequate documentation as applicable to the project and as listed in paragraph (c) of this section. The Agency reserves the right to request additional documentation to support the funding request. All complete applications must contain at a minimum:
(1) Agency-approved application form or system that includes all items noted in this section;
(2) Credit evaluation (conforming to § 5001.202).
(3) Environmental information required by the Agency to conduct its environmental reviews (as specified in § 5001.207(a)(2)(i)).
(4) Required financial statements including:
(i) Current Agency-acceptable balance sheet and year-to-date income statements of the borrower, and any guarantor(s) dated within 90 days of submission of the complete application;
(ii) Agency-acceptable historical balance sheet, income statements, and
cash flow statements of the borrower for the lesser of the last three fiscal years or all years of operation; and
(iii) Projected balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements or a financial model starting from the current financial statements through a minimum of two years of the project performing at full operational capacity or stable operations. Based on the type of project or at the discretion of the Agency, financial projections or models may be required from current financial statements up to the end of the term of the guaranteed loan. Financial projections must be supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. Projected financial statements must include a pro forma balance sheet projected for guaranteed loan closing.
(iv) The Agency may request additional financial statements, financial models, cash flow information, updated financial statements, and other related financial information to determine the financial feasibility of a project and evaluate the credit underwriting of borrower, its affiliates, and any guarantors.
(5) Identify whether or not the borrower has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee. If there is a known relationship, identify each Agency employee with whom the borrower has a known relationship.
(6) At the time of the loan application, the lender must submit its loan classification and credit risk rating classification scale.
(c)
Provisional content.
The following items may also be required based on the type of project being financed or if deficiencies exist in the credit evaluation and more information is needed to adequately determine risk:
(1) For all applications of $600,000 or greater, a draft loan agreement for the guaranteed loan.
(2) Appraisals in accordance with § 5001.203.
(3) Current credit reports or the equivalent on the borrower, any payment guarantors and any person or entity owning greater than a 20 percent or more interest in the borrower or controls the borrower, except for passive investors and those corporations listed on a major stock exchange. A credit report or its equivalent are not required for elected and appointed officials when the borrower is a public body, or Indian Tribe, or for members of a non-profit organization. Credit reports must be submitted to the Agency for all applications for guaranteed loans in the amount of $200,000 or more. For lenders that are submitting smaller requests, the lender must keep the credit report on file with the lender's application.
(4) Feasibility study: If the Agency is unable to determine a basis for successful repayment of a guaranteed loan based on the documentation and analysis of the five feasibility study components provided in the lender's analysis, borrower's business plan, or other project information, or if the proposed project will have significant impacts on existing operations, the Agency may require an independent feasibility study. The elements of an acceptable feasibility study may vary by project scope and should be prepared by a qualified, independent third party using applicable elements of the project, including but not limited to those outlined in appendix A to subpart D of this part.
(5) Intergovernmental consultation comments in accordance with 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, or successor regulation, unless exemptions have been granted by the State's single point of contact.
(6) Engineering documentation.
(7) Architectural reports.
(8) Energy audits or energy assessments in accordance with § 5001.107.
(9) Energy efficient equipment and systems data in accordance with § 5001.108.
(10) Business plan: Unless the information is contained in the feasibility study or in the credit evaluation, a business plan should be submitted to show how the project will operate and remain viable. This requirement may be omitted when guaranteed loan funds are used exclusively for debt refinancing.
(11) If the application is for five or more residential units, including nursing homes and assisted-living centers, an Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan that is in conformance with 7 CFR 1901.203(c)(3).
(12) If the application is for financing of health care facilities, a certificate of need, if required by Federal or State law.
(13) Department of Labor form as noted in § 5001.306(a)(1).
(14) Pro-forma balance sheet for closing as noted in § 5001.306(a)(2).
(15) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K, “Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,” as noted in § 5001.306(a)(4).
(16) Technical reports in accordance with § 5001.307(e).
(17) Certification regarding credit elsewhere in accordance with § 5001.126(b)(3) and (c)(2).
(18) Certification of significant community support in accordance with § 5001.126(b)(4) and (c)(3).
(19) Copies of organizational documents if not already provided with a preliminary eligibility review in accordance with § 5001.302.
(d)
Application modification.
Once a complete application is accepted by the Agency and prior to Agency award of a loan note guarantee, any modification to the application will be treated as a new application and the Agency will process the information accordingly. The submission date of record for a modified application is the date the Agency receives the modified application information.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70357, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79720, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.304
Specific application requirements for CF projects.
In addition to the requirements specified in § 5001.303 as applicable, a lender seeking a loan guarantee for a CF project must submit a financial feasibility report prepared by a qualified firm or individual acceptable to the Agency. All projects financed under this section must meet the financial feasibility requirements of this section and must be based on projected taxes, assessments, revenues, fees, or other sources of revenues in an amount sufficient to provide for project operation and maintenance, debt payments, and compliance with lender reserve requirements, when applicable. Other sources of revenue or existence of payment guarantors are particularly important in considering the feasibility of eligible recreation projects. The financial feasibility report must take into consideration any interest rate adjustment that may be instituted under the terms of the promissory note. Financial projections for projects that are assisted living facilities, skilled nursing facilities, or similar types of eligible residential facilities must be based on no more than 90 percent occupancy. Utility projects dependent on user fees for debt repayment shall base their income and expense forecast on user estimates supported by either a State statute or local ordinance requiring mandatory hookup or signed and enforceable user agreements. If the primary use of the essential community facility is by a business and the success or failure of the facility is dependent on that business, then the economic viability of that business must also be assessed. For projects that include the purchase and installation of RES that meet the eligibility requirements of § 5001.103(a)(8), a technical report on the RES as outlined in § 5001.307(e)(1) and (2), as applicable, will be included with the applicable financial feasibility report. The type of financial feasibility report required will depend upon the size of the guaranteed loan, the collateral securing the guaranteed loan, and the financial history of the borrower. The two types of financial feasibility report and when they are required are described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a)
Financial feasibility analysis.
The financial feasibility analysis will be prepared by a qualified firm or individual who may be the lender. Financial feasibility analysis requirements are outlined in appendix B to subpart D of this part. The lender's credit evaluation may serve as the financial feasibility analysis provided it includes the items outlined in appendix B to subpart D of this part. A financial feasibility analysis will be required if any of the following circumstances exist:
(1) Guaranteed loans of $25 million or less to existing community facilities;
(2) Guaranteed loans secured by a general obligation bond, or other tax supported income sufficient to pay the debt service for the life of the loan; or
(3) Borrowers with audited financial statements, if the last three years indicate the ability to pay all existing and new debt service.
(4) The Agency may require a feasibility study when the lender's analysis, borrower's business plan, or project information is not sufficient to determine the technical feasibility, market feasibility, or economic viability of the project.
(i) For guaranteed loans greater than $1,000,000.00 to a new entity or an entity conducting a new activity, a feasibility study prepared by an independent qualified consultant acceptable to the Agency is required. The scope of the feasibility study will be determined by the Agency and is dependent on the complexity of the project and the borrower.
(ii) For loans of $1,000,000.00 or less to new and existing entities, the Agency may require a feasibility study when the lender's analysis or other borrower information is not sufficient to determine the technical feasibility or economic viability of the project, or if the project will significantly affect the operations of a borrower who is an existing entity and its historic cash flow.
(b)
Financial feasibility study with examination opinion.
The report must be prepared in accordance with the standards of attestation of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the preparer must have the requisite professional liability insurance in place. A financial feasibility study with examination opinion will be required for all guaranteed loans that do not meet the requirements for a financial feasibility analysis outlined in paragraph (a) of this section. The financial feasibility study with examination opinion will typically include the items outlined in appendix B to subpart D of this part.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70357, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79720, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.305
Specific application requirements for WWD projects.
In addition to the requirements specified in § 5001.303, a lender seeking a loan guarantee for a WWD project must submit the documents specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a)
Engineering documentation.
(1) Engineering documentation must meet the level of detail the lender would typically require for a standard commercial loan, and include, at a minimum, a description of the proposed project, a cost estimate, the number of residential and non-residential connections, and the population served. The lender may request assistance to clarify the Agency's requirements and regulations; however, the Agency does not provide technical oversight or recommendations as to the technical feasibility of the project.
(2) The lender must ensure that the project is designed utilizing accepted architectural and engineering practices and conforms to applicable Federal requirements (
e.g.,
the seismic requirements of Executive Order 12699 (55 FR 835, 3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 269), the debarment requirements of 2 CFR part 180 as supplemented by 2 CFR part 417, American Iron and Steel (Section 746 of Title VII of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017), and the Copeland Anti-Kickback Act (18 U.S.C. 874)); State, local and Tribal codes and requirements; and facility plans or plans and specifications reviewed and approved by the applicable State, local and/or Tribal regulatory agency. The lender must also ensure that the planned project will be completed within the available funds and once completed, will be suitable for the borrower's needs. Upon completion of the project, the lender must certify that all applicable Federal requirements were met.
(b)
Feasibility considerations.
All projects financed under this part must be based on projected taxes, assessments, revenues, fees, or other sources of revenues in an amount sufficient to provide for project operation and maintenance, any reserves required by the lender, and debt payment. The lender's financial credit analysis must take into consideration any interest rate adjustment that may be instituted under the terms of the loan note guarantee.
(c)
Credit analysis requirements.
In addition to the requirements of § 5001.202, if the majority user of the system is a business and the financial success of
the system is dependent on that business, then the economic viability of that business must be assessed.
(d)
Domestic procurement preference.
(1)
American Iron and Steel (AIS).
Guaranteed loans must comply with AIS requirements. Lenders and borrowers are responsible for meeting the AIS requirements of Section 746 of Title VII of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017 and the continuing resolutions adopted thereafter.
(2)
Build America, Buy America Act (BABAA).
BABAA was enacted as part of the Infrastructure and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 117-58) on November 15, 2021 and became effective on May 14, 2022. Under Section 70914(a) of BABAA, “none of the funds made available for a Federal financial assistance program for infrastructure may be obligated for a project unless all of the iron, steel, manufactured products, and construction materials used in the project are produced in the United States.” Additional information may be found on the Agency's Build America, Buy America website at
https://www.rd.usda.gov/build-america-buy-america.
(3)
Compliance.
Owners are ultimately responsible for compliance with the domestic procurement preference requirements and should consult with the Agency early in project development. Compliance must be certified to prior to the issuance of the loan note guarantee. The lender must include any domestic preference language, provided by the Agency, in the loan agreement and other appropriate loan documents.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79720, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.306
Specific application requirements for B
I projects.
In addition to the requirements specified in § 5001.303, as applicable, a lender requesting a B
I loan guarantee must submit the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section if the guaranteed loan amount is more than $600,000, or in (b) of this section if the guaranteed loan amount is $600,000 or less.
(a)
Applications requesting a guaranteed loan in an amount greater than $600,000.
(1) The Agency is required to submit project information to the United States Department of Labor for their concurrence if the proposed guaranteed loan is in excess of $1,000,000.00 and will increase direct employment by more than 50 employees. The lender must provide sufficient project and demographic information to the Agency for completion of a Department of Labor review.
(2) A pro forma balance sheet projected for loan closing.
(3) The Agency may require a feasibility study when the lender's analysis, borrower's business plan, or project information is not sufficient to determine the technical feasibility, market feasibility, or economic viability of the project.
(i) For guaranteed loans greater than $1,000,000.00 to a new business, a feasibility study prepared by an independent qualified consultant acceptable to the Agency is required. The scope of the feasibility study will be determined by the Agency and is dependent on the complexity of the project and the borrower.
(ii) For loans of $1,000,000.00 or less to new and existing businesses, the Agency may require a feasibility study when the lender's analysis or other borrower information is not sufficient to determine the technical feasibility or economic viability of the project, or if the project will significantly affect the operations of a borrower who is an existing business and its historic cash flow.
(iii) A technical report is required for RES identified in § 5001.307(e) and for projects utilizing other integrated processing equipment and systems. The contents of the technical report must be consistent with the requirements of § 5001.307(e)(1) and must provide sufficient detail to enable the Agency to determine technical merit. The report can be provided in the technical feasibility section of a feasibility study or in a separate technical report.
(4) For companies listed on a major stock exchange or subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, a copy of their most recent SEC Form 10-K, “Annual Report Pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.”
(5) Current financial statements of affiliates.
(b)
Applications requesting a guaranteed loan in an amount of $600,000 or less.
Guaranteed loan applications may be processed under this
paragraph (b)
if the amount of the guaranteed loan does not exceed $600,000, provided the Agency determines that the lender's analysis, borrower's business plan, or other project or borrower information submitted by the lender is sufficient to determine the technical feasibility, market feasibility, and economic viability of the project. If any of the items in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section apply, the lender must collect the information and maintain it in their file. A lender may need to resubmit or modify an application if the application does not contain sufficient information for the Agency to make an informed loan approval decision.
(1) Lenders submitting applications under this paragraph (b) must include the following information:
(i) Narrative description of the project including the history of the borrower and adequacy of cash flow and borrower equity;
(ii) Required financial statements including a current Agency-acceptable balance sheet and year-to-date income statements;
(iii) Security available for the guaranteed loan including collateral and payment guarantees;
(iv) Strengths and weaknesses of the guaranteed loan and the Lender's need for the loan guarantee to mitigate specific risks.
(2) The lender may elect to not submit the following application documentation to the Agency, but must have the information available in its file for review:
(i) Narrative description of management capabilities and corporate structure of the borrower;
(ii) Environmental information for the project and any environmental reviews;
(iii) Agency-acceptable historical balance sheets and income statements of the borrower and its affiliates;
(iv) Financial statements of any personal, partnership, or corporate guarantors.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79721, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.307
Specific application requirements for REAP projects.
In addition to the requirements specified in § 5001.303, a lender seeking a loan guarantee for a REAP project must submit the information identified below based on total project costs.
(a)
Borrower eligibility information.
(1) Eligible borrowers must meet the definition of agricultural producer or rural small business as defined in § 5001.3. Agricultural producers seeking funding for a RES or EEI project may apply as either a rural small business or as an agricultural producer, provided they meet the applicable eligibility requirements. Agricultural producers seeking funding for an EEE project must be eligible and apply as an agricultural producer.
(2) The borrower must provide the primary NAICS code applicable to the borrower's business concern and certify on the Agency approved application form or system that it meets the definition of agricultural producer or rural small business. The Agency reserves the right to request supporting documentation to verify borrower eligibility.
(b)
Borrower description.
Describe the ownership of the borrower, including the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable. Include a description of the borrower's existing farm, ranch, or business operation, including how long the borrower has been in operation. Rural small businesses and agriculture operations owned by Tribes should provide documentation to adequately show the separation of the applicant and the Tribal government.
(1) Describe how the borrower meets the ownership and control requirements as identified in § 5001.126(e)(2).
(2) For each entity(ies) the borrower controls or entity(ies) it is controlled by, provide a list of the individual owners with their contact information. Describe the relationship between the borrower and the other entity(ies), including percentage of ownership and control, management, passive investor ownership, and any products exchanged. Organizational charts to demonstrate the structure of the borrower should be submitted when available.
(3) Identify the ethnicity, race, and gender of the borrower. Identify if the borrower is a veteran. This information is optional and is not required for a complete application but may be used by the Agency to award priority points.
(c)
Project information.
Provide information concerning the project as a whole and its relationship to the borrower's operations, including:
(1) Identification as to whether the project is an RES, EEI, or EEE project. Include a description and the location of the project;
(2) Description of how the project will have a positive effect on resource conservation, public health, and the environment;
(3) Identification of the amount of funds and the source(s) of funds the borrower is proposing to use for the project. Provide written commitments for funds at the time the application is submitted to receive points under this scoring criterion.
(i) For project funding provided by the borrower, documentation may include bank statements that demonstrates availability of funds.
(ii) For project funding that comes from a third party, a commitment letter signed by an authorized official of the third party. The letter must be specific to the project and must identify the dollar amount of any loan or other funding and any applicable rates and terms. If the third-party commitment is for a loan, the commitment must be firm; a letter-of-intent or pre-qualification letter subject to underwriting requirements or contingencies is not acceptable.
(d)
Feasibility study.
For RES projects only, when deemed necessary by the lender or Agency, an analysis conducted in conformance with the definition of feasibility study found in § 5001.3 and with applicable content in appendix A to subpart D of this part.
(e)
Technical report.
All eligible projects must have technical merit and provide information as identified in § 5001.106(e), § 5001.107, or § 5001.108 and (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Level of detail.
Information provided must be in sufficient detail to enable the Agency to determine the technical merit of the project. Design drawings and process flowcharts are encouraged as exhibits. The technical report requirements can be provided in the technical feasibility section of a feasibility study, instead of completing a separate technical report.
(i) Sufficient information to enable the calculation of simple payback as defined in § 5001.3;
(ii) For RES projects, sufficient information to enable the calculation of the percentage of historical use of energy compared to the amount of renewable energy that will be generated once the project is operating at its steady state operating level. If the project is closely associated with a residence, satisfactory demonstration must be made that 50 percent or more of the projected renewable energy will benefit the agricultural operation or rural small business; and
(iii) Demonstrate that the RES, EEI, or EEE project will operate or perform over the project's useful life in a reliable, safe, and a cost-effective manner, which may include but is not limited to addressing project design, installation, operation, maintenance, and warranties.
(iv) In addition, the following technologies, must provide a technical report in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1)(v) through (viii) of this section, as applicable:
(A) Hydrogen;
(B) Ocean energy;
(C) Geothermal electric generation;
(D) Anaerobic digesters and biogas;
(E) Biomass;
(F) Hybrid applications;
(G) Renewable energy systems with storage components; and
(H) Energy efficiency improvements
(v) For total project costs in the amount of $80,000 or less, a technical report, as identified in § 5001.303(c)(16), prepared in accordance with the following paragraphs, as applicable:
(A)
EEI technical reports.
Each EEI technical report submitted under this section must provide:
(
1
) A description of the proposed EEI, including its intended purpose;
(
2
) Vendor/installer certification that the EEI project uses commercially available technology;
(
3
) Vendor/installer certified projections on the quantity of energy to be saved;
(
4
) Certification by vendor/installer that they are qualified to complete the project as intended;
(
5
) Vendor/installer certification that the EEI system will operate and perform over the project's useful life in a reliable and cost-effective manner; and
(
6
) An estimate of simple payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
(B)
RES technical reports.
Each RES technical report submitted under this section must provide:
(
1
) A description of the proposed RES project, including its intended purpose;
(
2
) Vendor/installer certified projections on energy to be replaced and/or generated, including the quality and availability of the renewable resource to the project; if there is a residence closely associated with the RES project, the historical amount of energy used by the residence and the historical amount of energy used by the agricultural operation or rural small business, as applicable, to satisfactorily demonstrate 50 percent or more of proposed generation will benefit the agricultural operation or rural small business;
(
3
) Vendor/installer certification that the RES project uses commercially available technology;
(
4
) Certification that the vendor/installer is qualified to complete the project as intended;
(
5
) Certification that the project will perform over its useful life in a reliable and cost-effective manner; and
(
6
) The projected financial performance of the project. The description must address total project costs, revenues accrued from the sale or crediting of energy, quantity and value of energy offset, and revenue from byproducts. Include applicable investment and other production incentives and indicate if they are one time or reoccurring incentives. Provide an estimate of simple payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
(C)
EEE technical reports.
Each EEE technical report submitted under this section, regardless of total project costs, must provide:
(
1
) A description of the proposed EEE and its intended purpose, including baseline data, specifications, and efficiency data;
(
2)
Vendor/installer certification that the EEE project uses commercially available technology;
(
3
) Vendor/installer certification of the proposed energy consumption quantity and price per unit of the energy efficiency equipment to be installed;
(
4
) Certification by vendor/installer that they are qualified to complete the project as intended;
(
5
) Vendor/installer certification that the EEE system will operate and perform over the project's useful life in a reliable and cost-effective manner; and
(
6
) An estimate of simple payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
(vi) For EEI guaranteed loan projects with total project costs greater than $80,000, the technical report identified in paragraph (e)(1)(v)(A) of this section applies, except that appendix C to subpart D of this part is to be followed to prepare the report.
(vii) For RES guaranteed loan projects with total project costs greater than $80,000 and up to but not including $200,000, the technical report identified in paragraph (e)(1)(v)(B) of this section applies, except that appendix D to subpart D of this part is to be followed to prepare the report.
(viii) For RES guaranteed loan projects with estimated total project costs of $200,000 or greater, the technical report identified in paragraph (e)(1)(v)(B) of this section applies, except that appendix E to subpart D of this part is to be followed to prepare the report.
(2)
Modifications.
If the technical report is prepared prior to the borrower's selection of a final design, equipment vendor, or contractor, or other significant decision, the borrower may modify the report and resubmit it to the Agency, provided that the overall scope of the project is not materially changed as determined by the Agency. Changes in the technical report may require additional environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(3)
Hybrid projects.
If the application is for a hybrid project, technical reports must be prepared for each technology that comprises the hybrid project.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79721, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.308-5001.314
[Reserved]
§ 5001.315
Application evaluation and award provisions.
(a)
General.
The Agency will evaluate all applications according to the provisions of this part and may require the lender to obtain additional assistance in those areas where the lender does not have the necessary expertise to originate or service the guaranteed loan. For the purposes of this paragraph (a), “those areas” mean:
(1) The type and complexity of the financing (
e.g.,
asset-based financing, cash flow financing, and bond financing); and
(2) Loans to borrowers engaged in industries where the lender has little or no origination and/or servicing experience.
(b)
Evaluation and eligibility determinations.
The Agency will review each complete application to make a formal determination as to: the eligibility of the borrower, lender, project, and guaranteed loan purpose and proposed use of funds; if there is a reasonable assurance of repayment ability; if sufficient collateral and equity exists; if the proposed guaranteed loan complies with all applicable statutes and regulations; and if the environmental review is complete. The Agency will only guarantee loans that are sound and that have a reasonable assurance of repayment.
(1) If the Agency's evaluation and determination in accordance with this paragraph (b) is favorable, the Agency will proceed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If the Agency's evaluation and determination in accordance with this paragraph (b) is unfavorable, the Agency will notify the lender, in writing, as applicable, identifying the reason(s) for determining ineligibility and any applicable appeal or review rights. No further processing of the application will occur.
(c)
Priority score.
The Agency will score each eligible application based on the point system for the respective program identified in §§ 5001.316 through 5001.319.
(1) Lenders must provide necessary information related to determining the priority score, if requested by the Agency. To the extent possible, lenders should consider the established priorities of the Agency when submitting projects for a loan guarantee. Higher scoring applications will receive first consideration for funding.
(2) The Agency may establish a minimum priority score for each guarantee program. The Agency will, if established, publish the minimum score in a document in the
Federal Register.
Applications that do not meet the applicable minimum score will compete with all other guaranteed loan applications for each specific program in a competition on the first business day of September of the Federal fiscal year in which the application is ready for funding.
(d)
Funding selected applications.
Each program identified in § 5001.1 will consider applications for funding in the order they are received by the Agency. If the Agency approves the application and guaranteed funds are available, the Agency will issue a conditional commitment to the lender in accordance with § 5001.451 of subpart E. In the event total loan requests exceed the amount of funding available the applications will be ranked for priority by each program. As applications are funded, the remaining guaranteed loan funding authority may be insufficient to fund the next highest scoring application or applications (where two or more applications receive the same priority score). The Agency will use the procedures described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section as often as necessary to consider all applications as appropriate.
(1) If the remaining funds are insufficient to fund the next highest scoring application completely, the Agency will notify the lender and offer the lender the opportunity to accept the remaining funds. If the lender does not accept the offer, the Agency will process the next highest scoring application.
(2) If the remaining funds are insufficient to fund each application that receives the same priority score, the Agency will notify each lender and offer the lenders the opportunity to accept a prorated share of the remaining funds.
(3) Any lender offered less than the full amount requested under either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section can either accept the funds available or request to compete in the next funding cycle. There is no assurance that the application(s) will be funded in a subsequent funding cycle.
(4) If a lender agrees to the lower loan guarantee amount offered by the Agency under either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, the lender must certify that the purpose(s) of the project can still be met at the lower funding level and must provide documentation that the borrower has obtained the remaining funds needed to complete the project as originally proposed.
(e)
Handling of ranked applications not funded.
The Agency will withdraw from consideration ranked applications that have not received funding as follows:
(1) If an unfunded application has a priority score equal to or greater than any applicable minimum score, the Agency will retain the application for consideration in subsequent funding cycles. If the unfunded application is not selected for funding after 12 months, including the first month in which the application was considered, the Agency will withdraw the application from further funding consideration.
(2) If an unfunded application has a priority score less than any applicable minimum score and remains unfunded after the competition held on the first business day of September of the fiscal year in which the application is ready for funding, the Agency will notify the applicant in writing and withdraw the application from further funding consideration.
(f)
Commencement of the project.
The borrower assumes all risks if the borrower purchases real property or equipment or starts construction of the project to be financed by a guaranteed loan after the complete application has been received by the Agency, but prior to the Agency's issuance of the conditional commitment and the lender and borrower's acceptance of the conditional commitment.
(g)
Application withdrawal.
During the period between the submission of an application and prior to issuance of the conditional commitment, the lender must notify the Agency, in writing, if the project is no longer viable or the borrower no longer is requesting financial assistance for the project. When the lender notifies the Agency, the Agency will rescind the selection and withdraw the application, as applicable.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79721, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.316
CF project priority point system and reservation of funds.
This section applies to CF projects seeking a loan guarantee. Paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section outline the criteria and amount of priority points that may be awarded to an application. The highest possible priority score is 55. Paragraph (e) of this section outlines the reservation of funds for projects located in rural areas of 20,000 population or less.
(a)
Population priority.
If the project will be located in a rural community having a population of less than 20,000—15 points.
(b)
Project priority.
If the project will construct, enlarge, extend or otherwise improve a public safety, health clinic, early education, primary or secondary education facility—10 points.
(c)
Leveraging priority.
If the applicant commits other funds to the project in the following percentages:
(1) 50 percent or more-15 points
(2) 20% up to 49%-10 points
(3) 5% up to 19%-5 points
(d)
Administrator priority.
When guaranteed loan funds are requested from a National Office reserve, the Administrator may assign up to 15 points to address:
(1) Geographic distribution of funds;
(2) Emergency conditions caused by economic problems or natural disasters; or
(3) Initiatives that support the Agency's strategic plan.
(e)
Rural priority.
(1) Of the funds available each Federal fiscal year, as published on the Agency's website, the
following amounts shall be reserved for projects in rural areas with a population of not more than 20,000 inhabitants:
(i) 100 percent of the first $200,000,000 so made available;
(ii) 50 percent of the next $200,000,000 so made available; and
(iii) 25 percent of all amounts exceeding $400,000,000 so made available.
(2) On July 1 of each year, the Agency will evaluate the dollar amount of complete applications on hand for projects in rural areas with a population of not more than 20,000 inhabitants. The dollar amount of the complete applications will be subtracted from the reserved allocation identified in this paragraph (e) and the remaining amount will be made available through the end of the Federal fiscal year for projects in rural areas with a population of not more than 50,000 inhabitants.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79722, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.317
WWD project priority points system.
This section applies to WWD projects seeking a loan guarantee. The highest possible priority point score is 150.
(a)
Population priority.
If the project will primarily serve a rural area having a population under 10,000, 20 points will be awarded.
(b)
Health priorities.
If the proposed project is:
(1) Needed to alleviate an emergency situation, correct unanticipated diminution or deterioration of a water supply, or to meet Safe Drinking Water Act requirements which pertain to a water system, 25 points will be awarded;
(2) Required to correct inadequacies of a wastewater disposal system, or to meet health standards which pertain to a wastewater disposal system, 25 points will be awarded; or
(3) Required to meet administrative orders issued to correct local, State, or Federal solid waste violations, 15 points will be awarded.
(c)
Service area priorities.
An application is eligible to receive points under each of the categories identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section if the service area includes:
(1) An eligible area of long-term population decline according to the last three decennial censuses, 5 points will awarded.
(2) A rural county that has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty, as defined by the United States Census Bureau, for the last 30 years, 5 points will be awarded.
(3) For a city or county with a current unemployment rate, as determined by the Department of Labor, that is 125 percent of the State-wide rate or greater, 5 points will be awarded. For projects located in certain territories that may not have unemployment rates by localities, if the applicant's proposed service area has an unemployment rate exceeding 125 percent of the national unemployment rate, 5 points will be awarded.
(d)
Other priorities.
Applications are eligible for points under each of the following priorities:
(1) If the proposed project will merge ownership, management, and operation of smaller facilities providing for more efficient management and economical service, 10 points will be awarded.
(2) If the proposed project will enlarge, extend, or otherwise modify existing facilities to provide service to additional rural areas, 10 points will be awarded.
(3) If the applicant is a public body or Indian tribe, 5 points will be awarded;
(4) If the amount funds committed to the project from sources other than Rural Development is:
(i) 50 percent or more, 15 points will be awarded;
(ii) 20 percent to 49 percent, 10 points will be awarded;
(iii) 5 percent to 19 percent, 5 points will be awarded;
(5) If the project will serve Agency identified target areas, 5 points will be awarded;
(6) If the project primarily recycles solid waste products thereby limiting the need for solid waste disposal, 5 points will be awarded; and
(7) If the project will serve an area that has an unreliable quality or supply of drinking water, 10 points will be awarded.
(e) In certain cases, the approval official may award up to 15 points to a project. The points may be awarded to
projects in order to improve compatibility and coordination between WWD and other agencies' selection systems, to ensure effective RUS fund utilization, and to assist those projects that are the most cost effective. A written justification must be prepared and placed in the project file each time these points are assigned.
(f)
National office priorities.
The Administrator may assign up to 15 additional points to account for items such as geographic distribution of funds, the highest priority projects within a state, and emergency conditions caused by economic problems or natural disasters. The Administrator may delegate the authority to assign the 15 points to appropriate National Office staff.
§ 5001.318
B
I project priority point system.
This section applies to B
I projects seeking a loan guarantee. When applications on hand have the same priority score, the Agency will give preference to applications involving guaranteed loans from veterans. To receive veteran points, a veteran or veterans must own 20 percent or more interest in the borrower and the borrower must sign a certification in its application to indicate that the borrower has veteran status. A maximum of 100 points can be awarded.
(a)
Population priority.
If the project is located in an unincorporated area or in a city with a population under 25,000, 5 points will be awarded.
(b)
Location priority.
An application is eligible to receive points under each of the categories identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section if the project is located within:
(1) A distressed community in accordance with the Economic Innovation Group distressed community index. The list can be found on the Agency's website at:
https://www.rd.usda.gov/onerdguarantee,
5 points will be awarded.
(2) A rural county that has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty, as defined by the United States Census Bureau, for the last 30 years, 5 points will be awarded.
(3) For a city or county with a current unemployment rate, as determined by the Department of Labor, 125 percent of the State-wide rate or greater, 5 points will be awarded. For projects located in certain territories that may not have unemployment rates by localities, if the applicant's proposed service area has an unemployment rate exceeding 125 percent of the national unemployment rate, 5 points will be awarded.
(4) The boundaries of a federally recognized Indian Tribe's reservation, within Tribal trust lands, or within land owned by an Alaska Native Regional or Village Corporation as defined by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 5 points will be awarded.
(c)
Guaranteed loan features.
An application is eligible to receive points under each of the categories identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section as follows:
(1) If the lender will price the guaranteed loan at an interest rate equal to or less than the equivalent of the
Wall Street Journal
published Prime Rate plus 1.5 percent, 5 points will be awarded.
(2) If the guaranteed loan is less than 60 percent of the total project cost, 5 points will be awarded.
(3) If the business is owned by a qualified veteran, 5 points will be awarded.
(d)
High impact business development investment priorities.
An application is eligible to receive points under each of the categories identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section below:
(1) If the industry is not already present in the local community, 5 points will be awarded.
(2) If the business has 20 percent or more of its sales in international markets, 5 points will be awarded.
(3) If the business is locally owned and managed, 5 points will be awarded.
(4) If the business will produce a natural resource value-added product, 5 points will be awarded.
(5) If the business processes, distributes, aggregates, stores, and/or markets locally or regionally produced agricultural food products to underserved communities in accordance with § 5001.105(b)(15)(ii), 5 points will be awarded.
(6) If the business creates or saves a minimum of five jobs with an average
wage exceeding 150 percent of the Federal minimum wage, 5 points will be awarded.
(7) If the business offers a healthcare benefits package to all employees and pays at least 50 percent of the healthcare premium, 5 points will be awarded.
(e)
Administrative points.
An application is eligible to receive points under paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For projects awarded under State allocations the State Director may assign up to 10 additional points to an application to account for state-wide distribution of funds for natural disasters, local economic emergency conditions, community economic development strategies, State strategic plans, fundamental structural changes in a community's economic base, or projects that will fulfill an Agency special initiative.
(2) For projects requesting funds from the national reserve account, the State Director may request up to 10 administrative points from the Administrator.
(3) If an application is for a loan in excess of 10 million dollars, the Administrator may assign up to an additional 10 points to account for the nationwide geographic distribution of funds, or projects that will fulfill an Agency special initiative.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70357, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79722, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.319
REAP project priority point system.
This section applies to REAP projects seeking a loan guarantee. On a periodic basis, and subject to the availability of funds, the Agency will compete each complete and eligible RES, EEI, and EEE application that is ready to be funded and whose priority score, as determined in this section, meets, or exceeds the minimum priority score. Applications that do not meet the applicable minimum score will be considered as provided in § 5001.315(c)(2). A maximum score of 90 points is possible.
(a)
Environmental benefits.
The Agency will award up to 5 points under this criterion based on documentation or the applicant's indication in the application that the project will have a positive effect on resource conservation, public health, and the environment. If the project will have a positive impact on:
(1) All three impact areas, 5 points will be awarded;
(2) Any two of the three impact areas, 3 points will be awarded; or
(3) Any one of the three impact areas, 1 point will be awarded.
(b)
Energy generated, replaced, saved, or percent efficiency.
The Agency will award up to 25 points under this criterion. Each application is eligible for points under both paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Quantity of energy generated or saved per RES/EEI loan amount requested, or percent efficiency of EEE project.
The Agency will award up to 10 points under this sub-criterion. Points will be awarded for either the amount of renewable energy generation per dollar of loan amount requested, which includes those projects that are replacing energy usage with a renewable source; or the actual annual average energy savings over the most recent 12, 24, 36, 48, or 60 consecutive months of operation per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested; or the percent efficiency of the EEE project. The Agency will not award points for more than one category.
(i)
Renewable energy systems.
The quantity of energy generated or replaced per guaranteed loan dollar requested will be determined by dividing the projected total annual energy generated or replaced by the RES or RES retrofit (minus energy for residential use), which will be converted to BTUs, by the guaranteed loan dollars requested. Applications for retrofitting of a RES that are not projecting to increase the amount of renewable energy that the RES is generating, while still eligible for REAP, will not be awarded points under this criteria. Off-the-grid projects and direct-use projects which are not replacements, will be awarded points based on proposed energy generation. Points will be awarded under this sub-criterion based on the annual amount of energy generated or replaced (minus energy for residential use) per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested for the RES project.
The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined under
paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A)
and
(B)
of this section below. If the annual amount of energy generated per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested calculated under
paragraph (b)(1)(ii)
of this section is:
(A) 50,000 BTUs or higher average annual energy generated or replaced per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested or higher, 10 points will be awarded; or
(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs annual energy generated or replaced per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested, points will be awarded according to the result of taking the energy generated or replaced per guaranteed loan dollar requested ÷ 50,000 × 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.
(ii)
Energy efficiency improvements.
The Agency will award up to 10 points under this sub-criterion based on the average annual energy saved per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested for the EEI project. The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) 50,000 BTUs or higher average annual energy saved per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested, 10 points will be awarded; or
(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs average annual energy saved per dollar of guaranteed loan amount requested, points will be awarded according to the result of taking the energy generated per loan dollar requested ÷ 50,000 × 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.
(iii)
Energy efficient equipment and systems.
If the increased energy efficiency of the proposed equipment and systems is—
(A) 75 percent or greater, award 10 points;
(B) Less than 75 percent but equal to or greater than 50 percent, award 5 points;
(C) Less than 50 percent but equal to or greater than 25 percent, award 2.5 points; or
(D) Less than 25 percent, award 0 points.
(2)
Quantity of energy replaced, generated, or saved, or percentage of energy efficiency.
The Agency will award up to 15 points under this sub-criterion. Points will be awarded based on whether the project is for energy replacement, energy generation, or energy savings, or percentage of energy efficiency; points will not be awarded for more than one category.
(i)
Energy replacement.
The Agency will award points under this sub-criterion for an RES project based on the amount of energy replaced by the project compared to the amount of energy used by the applicable process(es) over a 12-month period. If the estimated energy produced is more than 150 percent of the energy used by the applicable process(es), the project will be scored as an energy generation project under
paragraph (b)(2)(ii)
of this section. When calculating the percentage of energy being replaced and whether it is categorized as a replacement or generation, the entire amount of energy produced by the new system will be used in the calculation, regardless of whether the project is being prorated because it shares a meter with a residence or if it has ineligible project costs.
(A)
Documentation for energy replacement.
For a RES project to qualify as energy replacement, the borrower must provide documentation in its application on prior energy use incurred by the borrower. Documentation must be shown that the borrower entity incurred the cost of the historical energy to be replaced, in order for the project to qualify as energy replacement. Replacement of existing direct use renewable energy can be considered in the replacement calculation as long as the borrower entity owns the existing RES system. For a project involving a recent acquisition, historical energy costs of the previous owner can be used to document prior energy use. Applicant entities cannot utilize historical energy costs of affiliate businesses to document prior energy use. Proposed energy use, such as that attributed to an expansion, is not considered in the replacement calculation. For a RES project involving new construction and being installed to serve the new facility, the project can be classified as energy replacement only if the borrower can document prior energy use from a facility that is within plus or minus 10
percent of the size of the facility it is replacing. The estimated quantities of energy must be converted to either BTUs, watts, or similar energy equivalents to facilitate scoring.
(B)
Calculation.
Energy replacement is determined by dividing the quantity of renewable energy that the RES project is estimated would have been generated if it were in place over the most recent 12-month period by the quantity of energy actually consumed over the same period by the applicable energy process(es) that is(are) consuming energy.
(C)
Awarding of points.
Using the results from paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, if the percentage of energy replacement is—
(
1
) Greater than 50 percent, 15 points will be awarded;
(
2
) Greater than 25 percent, but equal to or less than 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded; or
(
3
) Equal to or less than 25 percent, 5 points will be awarded.
(ii)
Energy generation.
If the RES project is intended for production of energy or is a proposed retrofitting of an existing RES which increases the amount of energy generated, the Agency will award 10 points. Applications for retrofitting of an RES that are not projecting to increase the amount of renewable energy that the RES is generating, while still eligible for REAP, will not be awarded points under this criteria. If the borrower cannot document prior energy use, the project will be scored as an energy generation project, regardless of whether or not there is an agreement in place to sell the power.
(iii)
Energy saved.
The Agency will award up to 15 points under this sub-criterion for an EEI project based on the percentage of estimated energy saved by the installation of the project as determined by the projections in the applicable vendor certification, energy assessment or energy audit. If the estimated energy expected to be saved over the same period used in the energy assessment or energy audit, as applicable, will be—
(A) 50 percent or greater, 15 points will be awarded;
(B) 35 percent up to, but not including 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded;
(C) 20 percent up to, but not including 35 percent, 5 points will be awarded; or
(D) Less than 20 percent, no points will be awarded.
(iv)
Energy efficiency.
If the percentage of energy efficiency is—
(A) Greater than 50 percent, 15 points will be awarded;
(B) Greater than 25 percent, but equal to or less than 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded; or
(C) Equal to or less than 25 percent, 5 points will be awarded.
(c)
Commitment of funds.
The Agency will award up to 15 points under this criterion based on the percentage of acceptable written commitment a borrower has from its other funding sources that are documented with a complete application.
(1)
Calculation.
The percentage of written commitment is calculated as follows: Percentage of written commitment = total amount of funds for which written commitments have been submitted with the application ÷ Total amount of matching funds and other funds required.
(2)
Awarding of points.
Using the result from paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Agency will award points as shown in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) If the percentage of written commitments is 100 percent of the matching funds, 15 points will be awarded.
(ii) If the percentage of written commitments is less than 100 percent, but more than 50 percent, points will be awarded as follows: ((Percentage of written commitments − 50 percent) ÷ (50 percent)) × 15 points, where points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.
(iii) If the percentage of written commitments is 50 percent or less, no points will be awarded.
(d)
Previous grantees or borrowers.
The Agency will award up to 15 points under this criterion based on whether the borrower has received and accepted a REAP grant award under 7 CFR part 4280 or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 4280. Received and accepted means
REAP grant funds were disbursed and/or a REAP loan note guarantee was issued by the Agency. The determination is based on the fiscal year in which the obligation was made.
(1) If the borrower has never received and accepted a grant award under 7 CFR part 4280 or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 4280, 15 points will be awarded.
(2) If the borrower has not received and accepted a grant award under 7 CFR part 4280 or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 4280 within the previous two Federal fiscal years, 10 points will be awarded.
(3) If the borrower has received and accepted a grant award under 7 CFR part 4280 or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 4280 within the previous two Federal fiscal years, no points will be awarded.
(e)
Existing businesses.
A maximum of 5 points will be awarded for an existing agricultural producer business or rural small business that meets the definition of existing business in § 5001.3. The business must be in operation for at least one full year, not simply a year since legal business formation.
(f)
Simple payback.
A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the simple payback of the project as defined in § 5001.3. Points will be awarded for either RES, EEI, or EEE; points will not be awarded for more than one category. See definition of simple payback for calculations. Simple payback calculations will be calculated based only on the documented information provided with the application.
(1)
Renewable energy systems.
RESs includes replacement, generation, and direct-use RES projects. If the simple payback of the project is:
(i) Less than 10 years, 15 points will be awarded;
(ii) 10 years up to but not including 15 years, 10 points will be awarded;
(iii) 15 years up to and including 25 years, 5 points will be awarded; or
(iv) Longer than 25 years, no points will be awarded.
(2)
Energy efficiency improvements.
If the simple payback of the project is:
(i) Less than 4 years, 15 points will be awarded;
(ii) 4 years up to but not including 8 years, 10 points will be awarded;
(iii) 8 years up to and including 12 years, 5 points will be awarded; or
(iv) Longer than 12 years, no points will be awarded.
(3)
Energy efficient equipment and systems.
If the simple payback of the project is—
(i) Less than 4 years, 15 points will be awarded;
(ii) 4 years up to but not including 8 years, 10 points will be awarded;
(iii) 8 years up to and including 12 years, 5 points will be awarded; or
(iv) Longer than 12 years, no points will be awarded.
(g)
Administrator priority points.
Under this criterion, the Administrator may award up to 10 points to an application based on the conditions specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section. Under no circumstances will an application receive more than 10 points under this criterion.
(1) The application is for an under-represented technology.
(2) Selecting the application helps achieve geographic diversity.
(3) The borrower is a member of an unserved or under-served population.
(i) The borrower is a veteran or veterans own 20 percent or more in interest in the borrower. In order to receive points, the borrower must sign a certification in its application to indicate that the borrower has veteran status; or
(ii) The borrower is a member of a socially disadvantaged group or members of socially disadvantaged group(s) own 20 percent or more in interest in the borrower socially disadvantaged groups are groups whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. In order to receive points, the application must include a statement to indicate that borrower is a member of a socially disadvantaged group.
(4) Selecting the application helps further a Presidential initiative or a Secretary of Agriculture priority.
(5) The proposed project is located in a federally declared disaster area. Declarations must be within the last 3 calendar years.
(6) The project is located in an area where 20 percent or more of its population is living in poverty, as defined by the United States Census Bureau, for the last 30 years; an underserved community; or an area which has experienced long-term population decline, or loss of employment.
(h)
Unused funding.
After each periodic competition, the Agency will roll any remaining guaranteed loan funding authority into the next competition. At the end of each Federal fiscal year, the Agency may elect at its discretion to allow any remaining multi-year funds to be carried over to the next Federal fiscal year rather than selecting a lower scoring application.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79722, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.320-5001.400
[Reserved]
Pt. 5001, Sbpt. D, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 5001—Feasibility Study Components
ER14JY20.008
ER14JY20.009
Pt. 5001, Sbpt. D, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart D of Part 5001— Financial Feasibility Reports
ER14JY20.010
ER14JY20.011
Pt. 5001, Sbpt. D, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart D of Part 5001—Technical Reports for Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Projects With Total Project Costs of More Than $80,000

# Technical Reports for Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Projects With Total Project Costs of More Than $80,000
For all EEI projects with total project costs of more than $80,000, provide the information specified in Sections A and D and in Section B or Section C, as applicable. If the application is for an EEI project with total project costs of $80,000 or less, please see § 5001.307(e) for the technical report information to be submitted with your application.
If the application is for an EEI project with total project costs of $200,000 and greater, you must conduct an energy audit (EA). However, if the application is for an EEI project with total project costs of less than $200,000, you may conduct either an energy assessment or an energy audit. Energy audits that meet the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHREA) Level II Energy Survey; Analysis and American National Standards Institute (ANSI); or American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE) S162 Standard for performing on farm energy audits will be considered by the Agency to be acceptable audits.

# Section A. Project Information
Describe how all the improvements to or replacement of an existing building and/or equipment meet the requirements of being commercially available. Describe how the design, engineering, testing, and monitoring are sufficient to demonstrate that the proposed project will meet its intended purpose, ensure public safety, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. Describe how all equipment required for the EEI(s) is available and able to be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule. In addition, present information regarding component warranties and the availability of spare parts.

# Section B. Energy Audit
If conducting an EA, provide the following information.
(1)
Situation Report.
Provide a narrative description of the existing building and/or equipment, its energy system(s) and usage, and activity profile. Also include average price per unit of energy (electricity, natural gas, propane, fuel oil, renewable energy, etc.) paid by the customer for the most recent 12 months, or an average of 2, 3, 4, or 5 years, for the building and equipment being audited. Any energy conversion should be based on use rather than source.
(2)
Potential Improvement Description.
Provide a narrative summary of the potential improvement and its ability to reduce energy consumption or improve energy efficiency, including a discussion of reliability and durability of the improvements.
(i) Provide preliminary specifications for critical components.
(ii) Provide preliminary drawings of project layout, including any related structural changes.
(iii) Identify significant changes in future related operations and maintenance costs.
(iv) Describe explicitly how outcomes will be measured.
(3)
Technical Analysis.
Give consideration to the interactions among the potential improvements and the current energy system(s).
(i) For the most recent 12 months, or an average of 2, 3, 4, or 5 years, prior to the date the application is submitted, provide both the total amount and the total cost of energy used for the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, for each improvement identified in the potential project. In addition, provide for each improvement identified in the potential project an estimate of the total amount of energy that would have been used and the total cost that would have been incurred if the proposed project were in operation for this same time period.
(ii) Calculate all direct and attendant indirect costs of each improvement;
(iii) Rank potential improvements measures by cost-effectiveness; and
(iv) Provide an estimate of simple payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
(4)
Qualifications of the auditor.
Provide the qualifications of the individual or entity which completed the energy audit.

# Section C. Energy Assessment
If conducting an energy assessment, provide the following information.
(1)
Situation Report.
Provide a narrative description of the existing building and/or equipment, its energy system(s) and usage, and activity profile. Also include average price per unit of energy (electricity, natural gas, propane, fuel oil, renewable energy, etc.) paid by the customer for the most recent 12 months, or an average of 2, 3, 4, or 5 years, for the building and equipment being evaluated. Any energy conversion shall be based on use rather than source.
(2)
Potential Improvement Description.
Provide a narrative summary of the potential improvement and its ability to reduce energy consumption or improve energy efficiency.
(3)
Technical Analysis.
Giving consideration to the interactions among the potential improvements and the current energy system(s), provide the information specified in paragraphs (3)(i) through (iii) of this appendix.
(i) For the most recent 12 months, or an average of 2, 3, 4, or 5 years, prior to the date the application is submitted, provide both the total amount and the total cost of energy used for the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, for each improvement identified in the potential project. In addition, provide for each improvement identified in the potential project an estimate of the total amount of energy that would have been used and the total cost that would have been incurred if the proposed project were in operation for this same time period.
(ii) Document baseline data compared to projected consumption, together with any explanatory notes on source of the projected consumption data. When appropriate, show before-and-after data in terms of consumption per unit of production, time, or area.
(iii) Provide an estimate of simple payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
(4)
Qualifications of the Assessor.
Provide the qualifications of the individual or entity that completed the assessment. If the energy assessment for a project with total project costs of $80,000 or less is not conducted by energy auditor or energy assessor, then the individual or entity must have at least 3 years of experience and completed at least five energy assessments or energy audits on similar type projects.

# Section D. Qualifications
Provide a resume or other evidence of the contractor or installer's qualifications and experience with the proposed EEI technology. Any contractor or installer with less than 2 years of experience may be required to provide additional information in order for the Agency to determine if they are qualified installer/contractor.
[89 FR 79723, Sept. 30, 2024]
Pt. 5001, Sbpt. D, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart D of Part 5001—Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of Less Than $200,000 but More Than $80,000

# Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of Less Than $200,000 but More Than $80,000
Provide the information specified in Sections A through D for each technical report prepared under this appendix.
A renewable energy site assessment may be used in lieu of Sections A through C if the renewable energy site assessment contains the information requested in Sections A through C. In such instances, the technical report would consist of Section D and the renewable energy site assessment.
Note:
If the total project cost for the RES project is $80,000 or less, this appendix does not apply. Instead, for such projects, please provide the information specified in § 5001.307(e).

# Section A. Project Description
Provide a description of the project, including its intended purpose and a summary of how the project will be constructed and installed. Describe how the system meets the definition of commercially available. Identify the project's location and describe the project site.

# Section B. Resource Assessment
Describe the quality and availability of the renewable resource to the project. Identify the amount of renewable energy generated that will be generated once the proposed project is operating at its steady state operating level. If applicable, also identify the percentage of energy being replaced by the system.
If the application is for a bioenergy project, provide documentation that demonstrates that any and all woody biomass feedstock from National Forest System land or public lands cannot be used as a higher value wood-based product.

# Section C. Project Economic Assessment
Describe the projected financial performance of the proposed project. The description must address total project costs, energy savings, and revenues, including applicable investment and other production incentives accruing from government entities. Revenues to be considered shall accrue from the sale of energy, offset or savings in energy costs, byproducts, and green tags. Provide an estimate of simple payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.

# Section D. Project Construction and Equipment Information
Describe how the design, engineering, testing, and monitoring are sufficient to demonstrate that the proposed project will meet its intended purpose, ensure public safety, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. Describe how all equipment required for the RES is available and able to be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule. In addition, present information regarding component warranties and the availability of spare parts.

# Section E. Qualifications of Key Service Providers
Describe the key service providers, including the number of similar systems installed and/or manufactured, professional credentials, licenses, and relevant experience. When specific numbers are not available for similar systems, estimations will be acceptable.
[89 FR 79724, Sept. 30, 2024]
Pt. 5001, Sbpt. D, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart D of Part 5001—Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of $200,000 and Greater

# Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of $200,000 and Greater
Provide the information specified in Sections A through G for each technical report prepared under this appendix.
Provide the resource assessment under Section C that is applicable to the project. For hybrid projects, technical reports must be prepared for each technology that comprises the hybrid project.

# Section A. Qualifications of the Project Team
Describe the project team, their professional credentials, and relevant experience. The description shall support that the project team key service providers have the necessary professional credentials, licenses, certifications, and relevant experience to develop the proposed project.

# Section B. Agreements and Permits
Describe the necessary agreements and permits (including any for local zoning requirements) required for the project and the anticipated schedule for securing those agreements and permits. For example, interconnection agreements and power purchase agreements are necessary for all renewable energy projects electrically interconnected to the utility grid.

# Section C. Resource Assessment
Describe the quality and availability of the renewable resource and the amount of renewable energy generated through the deployment of the proposed system. For all bioenergy projects, except anaerobic digesters projects, complete Section C.3 of this appendix. For anaerobic digester projects, complete Section C.6 of this appendix.
(1)
Wind.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the source of the wind data and the conditions of the wind monitoring when collected at the site or assumptions made when applying nearby wind data to the site.
(2)
Solar.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the source of the solar data and assumptions.
(3)
Bioenergy/Biomass Project.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the type, quantity, quality, and seasonality of the renewable biomass resource, including harvest and storage, where applicable. Where applicable, also indicate
shipping or receiving method and required infrastructure for shipping. For proposed projects with an established resource, provide a summary of the resource. Document that any and all woody biomass feedstock from National Forest System land or public lands cannot be used as a higher value wood-based product.
(4)
Geothermal Electric Generation.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the quality of the geothermal resource, including temperature, flow, and sustainability and what conversion system is to be installed. Describe any special handling of cooled geothermal waters that may be necessary. Describe the process for determining the geothermal resource, including measurement setup for the collection of the geothermal resource data. For proposed projects with an established resource, provide a summary of the resource and the specifications of the measurement setup.
(5)
Geothermal Direct Generation.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the quality of the geothermal resource, including temperature, flow, and sustainability and what direct use system is to be installed. Describe any special handling of cooled geothermal waters that may be necessary. Describe the process for determining the geothermal resource, including measurement setup for the collection of the geothermal resource data. For proposed projects with an established resource, provide a summary of the resource and the specifications of the measurement setup.
(6)
Anaerobic Digester Project/Biogas.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the substrates used as digester inputs, including animal wastes or other renewable biomass in terms of type, quantity, seasonality, and frequency of collection. Describe any special handling of feedstock that may be necessary. Describe the process for determining the feedstock resource. Provide either tabular values or laboratory analysis of representative samples that include biodegradability studies to produce gas production estimates for the project on daily, monthly, and seasonal basis. If an anerobic digester project, identify the type of operation (
e.g.,
dairy, swine, layer, etc.), along with breed, herd population size and demographics, and the type of waste collection method and frequency information available. For the biogas produced, identify the type of digester (
e.g.,
mixed, plug-flow, attached film, covered lagoon, etc.), if applicable, or the method of capture (landfill, sewage waste treatment, etc.) and treatment. Identify the system designer and determine the digester design assumptions such as the number and type of animals, the bedding type and estimated annual quantity used, the manure and wastewater volumes, and the treatment of digester effluent (
e.g.,
none, solids separation by screening, etc. with details including use or method of disposal).
(7)
Hydrogen Project.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the type, quantity, quality, and seasonality of the renewable biomass resource. For solar, wind, or geothermal sources of energy used to generate hydrogen, indicate the renewable resource where the hydrogen system is to be installed. Local resource maps may be used as an acceptable preliminary source of renewable resource data. For proposed projects with an established renewable resource, provide a summary of the resource.
(8)
Hydroelectric/Ocean Energy Projects.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the quality of the resource, including temperature (if applicable), flow, and sustainability of the resource, including a summary of the resource evaluation process and the specifications of the measurement setup and the date and duration of the evaluation process and proximity to the proposed site. If less than 1 year of data is used, a qualified consultant must provide a detailed analysis of the correlation between the site data and a nearby, long-term measurement site.
(9)
Renewable Energy Systems with Storage Components.
Provide adequate and appropriate data to demonstrate the amount of renewable resource available. Indicate the type, quantity, quality, and seasonality of the renewable energy resource, where applicable. Indicate the storage system specifications and the integrity of the system in conjunction with the RES it is integrated with, including application, size, lifetime, response time, capital and maintenance costs associated with the operation as well as the distribution of the stored resource(s).

# Section D. Design and Engineering
Describe the intended purpose of the project and the design, engineering, testing, and monitoring needed for the proposed project. The description shall support that the system will be designed, engineered, tested, and monitored to meet its intended purpose, ensure public safety, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. In addition, identify that all major equipment is commercially available, including proprietary equipment, and justify how this unique equipment is needed to meet the requirements of the proposed design. In addition, information regarding component warranties and the availability of spare parts must be presented.

# Section E. Project Development
Describe the overall project development method, including the key project development activities and the proposed schedule, including proposed dates for each activity. The description shall identify each significant historical and projected activity, its beginning and end, and its relationship to the time needed to initiate and carry the activity through to successful project completion. The description shall address applicant project development cash flow requirements. Details for equipment procurement and installation shall be addressed in Section F of this Appendix. Applications should include a concise development schedule with timelines for activities.

# Section F. Equipment Procurement and Installation
Describe the availability of the equipment required by the system. The description shall support that the required equipment is available and can be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule.
Describe the plan for site development and system installation, including any special equipment requirements. In all cases, the system or improvement shall be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements, and comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards.

# Section G. Operations and Maintenance
Describe the operations and maintenance requirements of the system, including major rebuilds and component replacements necessary for the system to operate as designed over its useful life. The warranty must cover and provide protection against both breakdown and a degradation of performance. The performance of the RES or EEI shall be monitored and recorded as appropriate to the specific technology.
[89 FR 79724, Sept. 30, 2024]

# Subpart E—Loan and Guarantee Provisions

# Loan Provisions
§ 5001.401
Interest rate provisions.
Interest rates, interest rate caps, and incremental interest rate adjustment limitations on a guaranteed loan are negotiated between the lender and the borrower. The interest rate for a guaranteed loan can be either fixed or variable, or a combination thereof, as long as it is a legal rate. Interest rates cannot be more than those rates the lender customarily charges its borrowers for non-guaranteed loans in similar circumstances in the ordinary course of business. The Agency encourages each lender to use the secondary market and pass interest-rate savings on to the borrower. If an interest rate swap is utilized, the guarantee will only cover principal and interest. The lender must provide the Agency with the overall effective interest rate charged to the borrower in the swap transaction. The Agency guarantee does not cover any fees related to the swap.
(a)
Different rates on guaranteed and unguaranteed portion of the
guaranteed
loan.
It is permissible to have different interest rates on the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan.
(b)
Variable interest rates.
A variable interest rate must be an interest rate that is tied to a published base rate, as published in a national or regional financial publication, and is agreed to by the Agency.
(1) The variable interest base rate must be specified in the promissory note along with any interest factors (
e.g.,
National Prime plus 1.0 percent).
(2) The lender may adjust the variable interest rate at different intervals during the term of the loan, but not more often than quarterly.
(3) The lender must incorporate, within the variable rate promissory note, a provision for adjustment of payment installments to fully amortize the loan by its maturity date.
(c)
Multi-rates.
When multi-rates are used, the lender must provide the Agency with the overall effective interest rate for the entire loan.
(d)
Interest rate changes.
Any change in the base rate or fixed interest rate between issuance of the conditional commitment and loan closing must be approved by the Agency. Approval of such a change must be shown as an amendment to the conditional commitment and must be reflected on the guaranteed loan closing report form.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70357, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79725, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.402
Term length, loan schedule, and repayment.
(a)
Term length.
The lender, with Agency concurrence, will establish and
justify the guaranteed loan term based on the use of guaranteed loan funds, the useful economic life of the assets being financed and those used as collateral, and the borrower's repayment ability. The maximum term allowable for final guaranteed loan maturity is limited to the justified useful life of the project or assets used as collateral but may not exceed 40 years or limitations in the applicable State statute, whichever is less.
(b)
Guaranteed loan schedule and repayment.
The lender must structure repayment in consideration of the borrower's cash flow and in accordance with the provisions of this section and the loan agreement. Scheduled guaranteed loan payments shall be made no less frequently than annually. In addition:
(1) Both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan must be amortized over the same term.
(2) Guaranteed loans must require a periodic payment schedule that will retire the debt over the term of the loan without a balloon payment. Balloon maturities are not allowed, unless required as a loan servicing action. Payments must be amortized to maximize successful loan repayment and may vary by type of business or cash flow.
(3) If the promissory note provides for an interest-only period, interest must be paid at least annually starting on a date that is no more than one year from the date of the promissory note. Scheduling of the first payment of principal and interest will be subject to consideration of whether the facility is operational and generates adequate income. However, the scheduling of the first full principal and interest payment must commence not more than 3 years from the date of the promissory note and be paid at least annually thereafter.
(4) There must be no “due-on-demand” clauses without cause. Regardless of any “due-on-demand” with cause provision in a lender's promissory note, the Agency must concur in any acceleration of the guaranteed loan unless the basis for acceleration is monetary default.
[86 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70357, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79725, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.403
Lender fees.
(a) The lender may charge the borrower reasonable, routine, and customary charges and fees for the guaranteed loan provided they are similar to those charges the lender assesses other borrowers for the same type of loan not subject to a loan guarantee. The lender must document such fees in the application. The lender may also charge routine and customary prepayment penalties and late payment fees for the guaranteed loan, which must be stated in the guaranteed loan documents.
(b) Default charges, penalty interest, late payment fees, and additional interest expenses are not covered by the loan note guarantee and cannot be added to the principal or interest due under any loan note guarantee in the event of a loss claim as prescribed in § 5001.521 or a repurchase as prescribed in § 5001.511.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79725, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.404-5001.405
[Reserved]
§ 5001.406
Guaranteed loan amounts.
Applicable guaranteed loan amounts depend on the type of project and the source of its funding.
(a)
CF projects.
The maximum amount of a CF guaranteed loan that may be made to a borrower, including the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of any CF guaranteed loans, the outstanding principal and interest balance of any existing CF guaranteed loans, and any new CF guaranteed loan that is the subject of an application must not exceed $100 million.
(b)
WWD projects.
The maximum amount of a WWD guaranteed loan that may be made to a borrower, including the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of any WWD guaranteed loans, the outstanding principal and interest balance of any existing WWD guaranteed loans, and any new WWD guaranteed loan that is the subject of an application must not exceed $50 million.
(c)
B
I projects.
The maximum total amount of B
I guaranteed loans (including the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of any B
I guaranteed loans, the outstanding
principal and interest balance of any existing B
I guaranteed loans, and any new B
I guaranteed loan that is the subject of an application) that may be made to a borrower is limited to a maximum amount of $25 million. The Secretary, whose authority may not be redelegated, may approve, at the Secretary's discretion, guaranteed loans in excess of $25 million and up to $40 million for rural cooperatives that process value-added agricultural commodities in accordance with § 5001.105(b)(18)(i). In addition to the borrower loan limit, there is a guarantor loan limit of $100 million.
(d)
REAP projects.
The amount of a guaranteed loan that will be made available to an eligible project and borrower under this part will be at least $5,000, not to exceed 75 percent of eligible project costs. Borrowers must demonstrate evidence of a financial contribution in the project of not less than 25 percent of total eligible project costs.
(1) The maximum total amount of REAP guaranteed loans made to a borrower, including the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of all REAP guaranteed loans, the outstanding principal and interest balance of any existing REAP guaranteed loans and the new REAP guaranteed loan that is the subject of an application, must not exceed $25 million.
(2) The total amount of funds available to agricultural producers for energy efficient equipment and systems will not exceed 15 percent of annual funds available to the program.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79726, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.407
Percentage of loan guarantee.
The percent of loan guaranteed may vary from program to program. The maximum guarantee is 90 percent of eligible guaranteed loan loss The Agency will set annually a guarantee percentage by program that will apply to loans guaranteed within each program. The annual guarantee percentage will take current Federal credit policy into consideration and may be set at or below the maximum allowed authorized by statute. The Agency will announce annual guarantee percentages each fiscal year by publishing a document in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 5001.10.
§ 5001.408
Participation or assignment of guaranteed loan.
(a)
General.
The lender may obtain participation in the loan or assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan on the secondary market subject to the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section or retain the entire guaranteed loan.
(1)
Participation.
The lender may obtain participation in the loan under its normal operating procedures; however, the lender must retain title to and possession of the promissory note(s) and retain the lender's interest in the collateral.
(2)
Assignment.
Any assignment by the lender of the guaranteed portion of the loan must be accomplished in accordance with the conditions in the lender's agreement and the provisions of this section. The holders and the borrower have no rights or obligations to one another. The holders and the borrower have no rights or obligations to one another.
(3)
Minimum retention by the lender.
Minimum retention at all times must be from the unguaranteed portion of the loan and cannot be participated to another person.
(i) The lender must hold a minimum of 7.5 percent of the total loan amount.
(ii) The lender must retain its security interest in the collateral and retain the servicing responsibilities for the guaranteed loan.
(iii) The Agency can approve a reduction of the minimum retention requirement below the applicable percentage on a case-by-case basis when the lender establishes to the Agency's satisfaction that reduction of the minimum retention percentage is necessary to meet compliance with the lender's regulatory authority.
(4)
Prohibition.
The lender must not assign or participate any amount of the guaranteed or non-guaranteed portion of the loan to the borrower, borrower's officers, directors, stockholders, other owners, or to members of their immediate families, or to a
parent company, an affiliate, or a subsidiary of the borrower.
(5)
Secondary market.
The lender must properly close their loan and fully disburse loan funds of a promissory note for the purposes intended prior to assignment of the guaranteed portion of the promissory note(s) on the secondary market. The lender can assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan only if the loan is not in default. Default includes a borrower default in payments or a lender default by unpaid periodic guarantee retention fees. A lender using the multi-note system may sell the guarantee on the secondary market for a specific note once that note is fully disbursed, even if other guaranteed notes for the project have not been fully disbursed.
(b)
Lender's servicing fee to holder.
The assignment guarantee agreement must clearly state the guarantee portion of loan as a percentage and corresponding dollar amount of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan it represents and the lender's servicing fee. The lender cannot charge the Agency a servicing fee and servicing fees are not eligible expenses for loss claim.
(c)
Distribution of proceeds.
The lender must apply all loan payments and collateral proceeds received, after payment of liquidation expenses, to the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan on a pro rata basis.
(d)
Promissory note(s).
A loan note guarantee is issued to the lender for a specific promissory note(s) executed between the lender and the borrower. The lender must retain title to and possession of the guaranteed promissory note(s), retain the lender's interest in the collateral, and retain the servicing responsibilities for the guaranteed loan. The lender is prohibited from issuing any additional promissory notes at a later date for the same guaranteed loan.
(1) The lender may assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan, including interest strips, to one or more holders by using an assignment guarantee agreement for each holder. The lender must complete and execute the assignment guarantee agreement and return it to the Agency for execution prior to holder execution.
(2) The lender or holder may request a certificate of incumbency and signature from the Agency.
(3) A holder, upon written notice to the lender and the Agency, may reassign the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan, in full, assigned under the assignment guarantee agreement. Holders can only reassign the complete block they have received and cannot subdivide or further split their interest in the guaranteed portion of a loan or retain an interest strip.
(4) Upon notification and completion of the assignment through the use of the assignment guarantee agreement, the assignee succeeds to all rights and obligations of the holder thereunder. Subsequent assignments require notice to the lender and Agency using any format, including that used by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (formerly known as the Bond Market Association), together with the transfer of the original assignment guarantee agreement.
(5) The Agency will not execute a new assignment guarantee agreement to affect a subsequent reassignment.
(6) The Agency will not reissue a duplicate assignment guarantee agreement unless:
(i) The original was lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced; and
(ii) The reissue is made in accordance with § 5001.459.
(e)
Rights and liabilities.
When a guaranteed portion of a loan is assigned to a holder using an assignment guarantee agreement, the holder succeeds to all rights of the lender under the loan note guarantee to the extent of the portion purchased. The full, legal interest in the promissory note must remain with the lender, and the lender remains bound to all obligations under the loan note guarantee, lender's agreement, and Agency regulations applicable to the guarantee.
(1) A guarantee and right to require purchase in accordance with § 5001.511 will be directly enforceable by a holder notwithstanding any fraud or misrepresentation by the lender or any unenforceability of the loan guarantee by the lender, except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the holder had
actual knowledge at the time it became the holder or in which the holder participates or condones.
(2) The lender must not represent a conditional commitment of guarantee as a loan guarantee.
(3) The lender must reimburse the Agency for any payments the Agency makes to a holder on the lender's behalf under the loan note guarantee, given the lender would not be entitled to the payments had they retained the entire interest in the loan.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70358, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79726, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.409-5001.449
[Reserved]

# Guarantee Provisions
§ 5001.450
General.
(a)
Full faith and credit.
A loan note guarantee issued under this part constitutes an obligation supported by the full faith and credit of the United States and is incontestable except for fraud or misrepresentation of which a lender or holder has actual knowledge at the time it becomes such lender or holder, or which a lender or holder participates in or condones.
(b)
Conditions of guarantee.
A guaranteed loan under this part will be evidenced by a loan note guarantee issued by the Agency.
(1) The entire loan must be secured by the same collateral with equal lien priority for the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan. The unguaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan will neither be paid first nor given any preference or priority over the guaranteed portion. A parity or junior lien position in the guaranteed loan collateral may be considered on a case-by-case basis and must be approved by the Agency during the loan approval process. Requirements for guaranteed loans to purchase cooperative stock are found in § 5001.140.
(2) The lender must remain mortgagee and secured party of record notwithstanding the fact that another party may hold a portion of the guaranteed loan.
(3) The lender will receive all payments of principal and interest on account of the entire guaranteed loan and must promptly remit to each holder and participant, if any, its pro rata share of any payment within 30 days of the lender's receipt thereof from the borrower. Holder or participant payments are determined according to their respective interest in the guaranteed loan, less only the lender's servicing fee.
(4) Any claim against a loan note guarantee or assignment guarantee agreement that is attached to, or relating to, a promissory note that provides for payment of interest-on-interest, default charges, penalty interest, or late payment fees will be reduced to remove such interest, fees and charges.
(5) The loan note guarantee is unenforceable by the lender to the extent that any loss is occasioned by:
(i) The violation of usury laws;
(ii) Use of guaranteed loan funds for unauthorized loan purposes in accordance with § 5001.122 or to the extent that those funds are used for purposes other than those specifically approved by the Agency in its conditional commitment or amendment thereof;
(iii) Failure to obtain, perfect, document, and or maintain the required collateral or security position regardless of the time at which the Agency acquires knowledge thereof; and
(iv) Negligent loan origination or negligent loan servicing as determined and documented by the Agency.
(6) The Agency will guarantee payment as follows:
(i) To any holder, 100 percent of any loss sustained by the holder on the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan it owns and on interest due (as determined under paragraph (g) of this section) on such portion less any outstanding servicing fee.
(ii) To the lender: Any loss sustained by the lender on the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan, including principal and interest (as determined under paragraph (c) of this section) evidenced by the promissory note(s) or assumption agreements entered into in connection with an Agency approved transfer and assumption, and secured advances for protection and preservation of collateral made with the Agency's authorization if applicable.
(c)
Accrued interest payments.
If a loan has been guaranteed by the Agency
prior to October 1, 2020, the Agency will guarantee the lender and any holders accrued interest in accordance with the applicable regulations in effect for the respective program at the time the loan was guaranteed. For all guaranteed loans closed on or after October 1, 2020, the Agency will guarantee accrued interest in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) or (2), as applicable, of this section.
(1) If the lender owns all or a portion of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan or makes a protective advance, the Agency, in its sole discretion, may cover interest on the guaranteed portion for the 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date. Per paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if applicable, the lender should issue an interest termination letter to any holder(s) and provide the Agency with a copy. The Agency will entertain the payment of interest up to 180 days past the most recent delinquency effective date only if:
(i) The lender, and not the Agency, has repurchased all holder interests in the guaranteed loan in accordance with § 5001.511;
(ii) The lender is actively engaged in a credit resolution with the borrower to bring the account current or fully liquidate the collateral under the terms of a liquidation plan approved by the Agency; and
(iii) Concurrence for inclusion of the extended period of interest to the lender is received from the Agency. The lender must request an extension of accrued interest in writing and document their collection efforts and timeframe for full resolution, which must be within 180 days from the most recent delinquency. Approved collection efforts that will extend longer than 180 days from the most recent delinquency date will be limited to 90 days of accrued interest payment from the Agency.
(2) If the guaranteed loan has one or more holders, the lender will issue an interest termination letter to each holder establishing the termination date for interest accrual and provide the Agency with a copy. The loan note guarantee will not cover interest to any holder accruing after 90 days from the date of the interest termination letter. The Agency at its sole discretion may notify each holder of the interest termination provisions if it is determined that lender correspondence to holders is inadequate.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62197, Oct. 2, 2020; 89 FR 79726, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.451
Conditional commitment.
(a)
Issuance.
Upon selection of an application in accordance with § 5001.315 in subpart D, the Agency will issue a conditional commitment to the lender, to be accepted by the lender and the borrower, containing conditions under which the Agency will issue a loan note guarantee.
(1) Upon acceptance of the conditional commitment, the lender agrees not to modify the scope of the project, overall facility concept, project purpose, use of guaranteed loan funds, or other terms and conditions without Agency written concurrence in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If the lender decides at any time after receiving a conditional commitment that it no longer wants a loan guarantee, the lender must immediately advise the Agency of the cancellation in writing. Upon written notification from the lender, the Agency will de-obligate the funds associated with the conditional commitment.
(b)
Content.
The conditional commitment will address information required for issuing a loan note guarantee, including but not limited to:
(1) Approved use of guaranteed loan funds (source and use of funds);
(2) Rates and terms of the loan;
(3) Loan agreement requirements to include:
(i) Repayment terms and amortization provisions of the guaranteed loan;
(ii) Description of real property collateral, list of other collateral and identification of the lender's lien priority in the collateral;
(iii) A list of persons and entities guaranteeing payment of the guaranteed loan and their percentage of guarantee;
(iv) Requirement as to the type and frequency of the financial statements to be required for the duration of the guaranteed loan (guarantor statements must be updated at least annually);
(v) Prohibition against borrower assuming liabilities or obligations of others;
(vi) Limitations on borrower dividend payments and compensation of officers, owners and members of borrower;
(vii) Limitations on the purchase and sale of equipment other fixed assets and real estate;
(viii) Restrictions on mergers, consolidations, or sales of the business, project, or guarantee loan collateral without the concurrence of the lender;
(ix) Limitations on significant management changes without the concurrence of the lender;
(x) Maximum debt-to-net worth ratio, when required by the lender or by this part;
(xi) Minimum debt service coverage ratio, when required by the lender or by this part;
(xii) Requirements imposed by the Agency in its conditional commitment;
(xiii) Agency environmental requirements; and
(xiv) Requirement for the lender and the Agency to have reasonable access to the project and financial records including access for periodic inspections of the project and financial records by a representative of the lender or the Agency; and
(xv) Requirement for the borrower to provide the lender and the Agency performance information during the term of the guaranteed loan.
(4) Loan closing requirements;
(5) Lender and borrower certifications;
(6) Collateral and lien position requirements; and
(7) Other requirements necessary to protect the Agency.
(c)
Change requests.
The lender can request, in writing, changes to the conditional commitment with justification. The Agency can deny, solely at its discretion, changes to the conditional commitment even if the changes are otherwise in compliance with this part. All changes to the conditional commitment must be documented by written amendment to the conditional commitment executed by all parties.
(d)
Acceptance or withdrawal of conditional commitment.
The lender and borrower must complete and sign the conditional commitment and return a copy to the Agency within 60 days. If the conditional commitment is not accepted by both the lender and borrower within 60 days, the conditional commitment becomes null and void and the Agency will withdraw the conditional commitment and de-obligate the associated funds.
(e) Modification, and expiration of conditional commitment. The conditional commitment issued by the Agency will be effective for a period of one year or sufficient time to complete the guaranteed loan project prior to loan closing. The lender must submit a written request to the Agency to extend the conditional commitment at least 30 days prior to its expiration date and obtain Agency approval for the extension. The Agency will consider this request only if no material adverse changes in the borrower or the borrower's financial condition have occurred since issuance of the conditional commitment. If a conditional commitment expires, the Agency will notify the lender in writing and may de-obligate the funds. Any additions or modifications to conditions stated in the original conditional commitment must be agreed upon between the lender, the borrower, and the Agency.
[85 FR 42518, July 14,2020, as amended at 86 FR 70358, Dec. 10, 2021; 87 FR 7368, Feb. 9, 2022]
§ 5001.452
Loan closing and conditions precedent to issuance of loan note guarantee.
(a) The lender must not close the guaranteed loan until all conditions of the conditional commitment are met. If, at a later date, it is discovered that all conditions were not met, the lender will be advised in writing that full enforceability of the guarantee by the lender may be compromised if the deficiencies are not corrected.
(b) Simultaneously with or immediately after the guaranteed loan closing, the lender must provide to the Agency the guarantee fee, and the following forms and documents:
(1) An Agency-approved, “Guaranteed Loan Closing Report”;
(2) A copy of each executed promissory note and collateral security documents;
(3) A copy of the executed final loan agreement, which must include any additional requirements imposed by the Agency in the conditional commitment;
(4) The original, executed Agency-approved guarantee form(s) for any required personal, partnership or corporate guarantees;
(5) The borrower's loan closing balance sheet, if required;
(6) For loans to public bodies, an opinion from recognized bond counsel regarding the adequacy of the preparation, issuance, and enforceability of the debt instruments;
(7) Any other documents required to comply with applicable law or required by this part, the conditional commitment or the Agency; and
(8) When requesting issuance of a loan note guarantee, the lender must certify to each condition identified in paragraphs (b)(8)(iii)(A) through (V) of this section, as applicable.
(i) In making its certification, the lender can rely on certain written materials (
e.g.,
certifications, evaluations, appraisals, financial statements, and other reports) provided by the borrower or other qualified third parties (
e.g.,
independent engineers, appraisers, accountants, attorneys, consultants, or other experts).
(ii) If the lender is unable to provide any of the certifications required under this section, the lender must provide an explanation satisfactory to the Agency.
(iii) The lender may request the loan note guarantee prior to construction in accordance with this part; however, the lender must still certify to all applicable conditions of this paragraph (b)(8)(iii).
(A) All requirements of the conditional commitment have been met.
(B) The financial criteria specified in § 5001.303(b)(4) of this part and any financial criteria contained in the conditional commitment were:
(
1
) Determined in accordance with any applicable requirements in § 5001.9 of this part, and
(
2
) Have been maintained through the issuance of the loan note guarantee. Failure to maintain or attain the minimum financial criteria will result in the Agency not issuing a loan note guarantee.
(C) No major changes have been made in the applicant, project or lender's loan conditions and requirements since the issuance of the conditional commitment, unless such changes have been approved by the Agency.
(D) There has been neither any material adverse change in the borrower's financial condition nor any other material adverse change in the borrower during the period of time from the Agency's issuance of the conditional commitment to issuance of the loan note guarantee regardless of the cause or causes of the change and whether or not the change or causes of the change were within the lender's or borrower's control.
(
1
) The borrower is a legal entity in good standing with its regulator (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe where the borrower was organized or has a place of business.
(
2
) The borrower meets the eligibility requirements as outlined in § 5001.126(a) and (b) through (e), as applicable.
(E) There is a reasonable prospect that the guaranteed loan and other project debt will be repaid on time and in full (including interest) from project cash flow according to the terms proposed in the application.
(F) The guaranteed loan has been properly closed, and the required security instruments have been properly executed and all security interests obtained by the lender have been or will be properly perfected in accordance with applicable law.
(G) All planned property acquisition has been or will be completed; all development has been or will be substantially completed in accordance with plans and specifications and conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local codes; all equipment required for the project is available, can be procured and delivered within the project development schedule, and will be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements; and costs have not exceeded the amount approved by the lender and the Agency.
(H) The proposed project complies with all current Federal, State, and
local laws and regulatory rules that affect the project, the borrower, and lender activities, including, but not limited to, equal opportunity and Fair Housing Act requirements and design and construction requirements.
(I) Lender-required insurances are in effect.
(J) All truth-in-lending and equal credit opportunity requirements have been met.
(K) The borrower has marketable title to the collateral then owned by the borrower, subject to the rights of the guaranteed loan and to any other exceptions approved in writing by the Agency.
(L) Where required, necessary or prudent, the borrower has obtained—
(
1
) A legal opinion relative to the title and accessibility to any rights-of-way and easements; and
(
2
) A title opinion or title insurance showing the borrower has good and marketable title to the real property and other collateral and fully addressing all existing mortgages or other lien defects, restrictions or encumbrances. In those cases where there is adequate gap coverage, a title commitment may be acceptable.
(M) All project funds have been or will be disbursed for purposes and in amounts consistent with the conditional commitment (or Agency-approved amendment thereof) and the application submitted to the Agency. Appropriate lender controls were used to ensure that all funds were properly disbursed, including funds for working capital. A copy of a settlement statement by the lender detailing the use of loan and matching/equity funds must be attached to support this certification.
(N) When applicable, the entire amount of the loan for working capital or initial operating expenses have been disbursed to the borrower, except in cases where the Agency has approved disbursement over an extended period of time and funds are escrowed so that the settlement statement reflects the full amount to be disbursed.
(O) When required, personal and/or corporate guarantees have been obtained in accordance with § 5001.204 of this part.
(P) Lien priorities are consistent with the requirements of the conditional commitment. No claims or liens of laborers, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment, materialmen, or other parties have been filed against the collateral and no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the collateral.
(Q) Neither the lender nor any of the lender's officers has an ownership interest in the borrower or is an officer or director of the borrower, and neither the borrower nor its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners have more than a 5 percent ownership interest in the lender.
(R) The loan agreement includes all borrower compliance measures identified in the Agency's environmental review for avoiding or reducing adverse environmental impacts of the project's construction or operation.
(S) The lender will comply with the requirements of the Debt Collection Improvement Act.
(T) The lender has executed and delivered the lender's agreement, completed registration in the Agency's electronic reporting system, and electronically submitted the closing report for the guaranteed loan along with the appropriate guarantee fee.
(U) For all RES and EEI projects, the lender must provide certification that the project has been performing or will perform at a steady state operating level in accordance with the technical requirements, plans, and specifications. Any modification to the 30-day steady state operating level requirement will be based on the Agency's review of the technical report or vendor certification and will be incorporated into the conditional commitment.
(V) For CF and WWD projects, the lender must also certify that the lender would not make the loan without an Agency loan guarantee.
(W) For WWD projects, if applicable, the lender must certify that the project complied with American Iron and Steel requirements.
(X) For B
I, the capital/equity requirement set forth in the Conditional Commitment was met, as evidenced by a balance sheet as of the date the guaranteed loan was closed, giving effect to
the entirety of the loan in the calculation whether or not the loan itself is fully advanced. A copy of the borrower's loan closing balance sheet must be included with the lender's certification.
(c) For RES projects where applicable, the lender must provide to the Agency a copy of the executed power purchase agreement and/or a permission to operate letter from the energy off-taker.
(d)(1) For all CF projects before the Agency will issue a loan note guarantee on a guaranteed loan to a borrower other than a public body, the articles of incorporation or other organizing documents of the borrower or the loan agreement must include a condition similar to the following:
(2) If the corporation dissolves or ceases to perform the community facility objectives and functions, the board of directors shall distribute all business property and assets to one or more nonprofit corporations or public bodies. This distribution must be approved by 75 percent of the users or members and must serve the public welfare of the community. The assets may not be distributed to any members, directors, stockholders, or others having a financial or managerial interest in the corporation. Nothing herein shall prohibit the corporation from paying its debts.
(e) For all B
I projects a borrower whose project involves locally or regionally produced agricultural food products and is not located in a rural area must include in an appropriate agreement with retail and institutional facilities to which the borrower sells locally or regionally produced agricultural food products a requirement to inform consumers of the retail or institutional facilities that the consumers are purchasing or consuming locally or regionally produced agricultural food products.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62198, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70358, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79726, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.453
Issuance of the loan note guarantee.
The Agency, at its sole discretion, will determine if the conditions specified in the conditional commitment have been met and whether to issue the loan note guarantee.
(a)
Issuance.
When the Agency is satisfied that all of the conditions specified in the conditional commitment have been met and it receives all the required fees plus the executed lender's agreement from the lender, the Agency will issue the documents identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, as appropriate.
(1)
Loan note guarantee.
The Agency will provide the lender the original loan note guarantee document which the lender must attach to the promissory note. If the lender elected to use the multi-note system, the Agency will issue one loan note guarantee for the set of promissory notes.
(2)
Assignment guarantee agreement.
If the lender assigns any guaranteed portion of a guaranteed loan to a holder, the lender, holder, and the Agency will execute an assignment guarantee agreement for each assignment.
(3)
Certificate of incumbency and signature.
The Agency will provide the holder an executed certificate of incumbency form to verify the signature and title of the Agency official who signed the assignment guarantee agreement.
(b)
Agency review of closing.
The Agency will review the closing documents submitted by the lender for completeness and if all conditions have been met and all documents have been provided, the Agency will issue the loan note guarantee. If the Agency determines that it cannot issue the loan note guarantee, the Agency will notify the lender, in writing, of the reasons and give the lender a reasonable period within which to satisfy the objections. If the lender satisfies the objections within the time allowed, the Agency will issue the loan note guarantee.
(c)
Cancellation of obligation.
A lender can submit a written request to the Agency for a partial cancellation. The lender must include in this request the reason for the partial cancellation, the effective date, and the portion to be canceled. If the Agency conditions for issuance of the loan note guarantee are rejected, cannot be met or funds are, in whole or in part, no longer needed, the Agency will cancel the obligation.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62198, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 5001.454
Guarantee fee.
The guarantee fee is a one-time, non-refundable fee paid by the lender to the Agency at or before loan closing and is required to be paid before the Agency will issue the loan note guarantee. The guarantee fee rate applied will be the rate as established in the
Federal Register
for the fiscal year in which a guaranteed loan is obligated. The lender may pass the guarantee fee on to the borrower.
(a)
Guarantee fee calculation.
The one-time guarantee fee is calculated by multiplying the total loan amount by the percentage of guarantee by the guarantee fee rate, which may vary by program.
(b)
Guarantee fee rates.
The guarantee fee rate is established by the Agency in an annual document published in the
Federal Register.
While the fee rate may vary annually, they will not exceed the limits in table 1. Once the guarantee is obligated, the guarantee fee rate in effect at the time of obligation will remain in place even if the guarantee fee rate changes before the loan note guarantee is issued.
Table 1 to § 5001.454(
b
)—Guarantee Fee
Maximum guarantee fee
(percent)
Community Facilities
4
Water and Waste Disposal
3
Business and Industry
5
Rural Energy for America Program
3
(c)
Loan note guarantee prior to completion.
If the loan note guarantee is issued prior to completion of the project's construction under § 5001.205(e)(2), an additional guarantee fee of 0.50 percent will be added.
(d)
Reduced fee.
Subject to annual limits set by the Agency and published in an annual
Federal Register
document, the Agency may charge a reduced guarantee fee if requested by the lender when the borrower's project meets any one of the following criteria:
(1) Is located in a rural community that—
(i) Is a distressed community in accordance with the Economic Innovation Group distressed community index. The list can be found on the Agency's website at:
https://www.rd.usda.gov/onerdguarantee;
(ii) Is experiencing long-term population decline according to the last three decennial censuses;
(iii) Is in a persistent poverty county. A persistent poverty county is any county that has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial census and 2007-2011 American Community Survey 5-year average, or any territory or possession of the United States;
(iv) Is in a presidentially declared disaster area, declared within the 24 months preceding the date of the application, and is experiencing trauma as a result of natural disaster;
(v) Is located in a city, county, or state with an unemployment rate, as determined by the Department of Labor, 125 percent or greater of the current national rate; or
(vi) Is located within the boundaries of a federally recognized Indian tribe's reservation or within Tribal trust lands or within land owned by an Alaska Native Regional or Village Corporation as defined by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
(2) Processes, distributes, aggregates, stores, and/or markets locally or regionally produced agricultural food products and promotes access to healthy foods;
(3) Is locally owned and managed, and either
(i) Supports value-added agriculture and provides a market for locally or regionally produced agricultural food product; or
(ii) Produces a natural resource value-added product/manufactures a product from a natural resource.
(4) Is part of a strategic economic development and community development plan on a multi-jurisdictional and multi-sectoral basis in accordance with Section 6401 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-334); or
(5) Provides an additional market for existing local businesses by purchasing substantial amounts of products or services from, selling product to, or providing services to existing local and regional businesses. The additional market for existing local businesses
means that the borrower uses industry clusters in the same community as a substantial part of their product manufacturing or service delivery, or the borrower is part of a product chain where they are a substantial part of another local business' product manufacturing or service delivery. The use of local janitorial or maintenance firms, for example, does not meet this criteria.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70358, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79726, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.455
Periodic guarantee retention fee.
The Agency will collect a periodic guarantee retention fee from the lender for as long as the loan note guarantee is outstanding in accordance with the annual notice published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 5001.10. Payment of the periodic guarantee retention fee is required to maintain the validity of the loan note guarantee. The lender may pass the fee on to the borrower but may not delay payment of the fee to the Agency while collecting the payment from the borrower. The fee rates may differ by program as published annually in a document in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 5001.10. The annual
Federal Register
notification will include the frequency of payment for the fees.
(a)
Calculation.
The guarantee retention fee is calculated by multiplying the full outstanding principal guaranteed loan balance as of a date(s) as published in the annual
Federal Register
notification, by the percentage of guarantee, by the fee rate as noted in the guaranteed loan conditional commitment.
(b)
Effective fee rate.
The effective guarantee retention fee rate that is published in a
Federal Register
document in accordance with § 5001.10 at the time the guaranteed loan is obligated will be noted in the guarantee loan conditional commitment and the fee will remain in effect for the life of the loan note guarantee.
(c)
Payments.
The guarantee retention fee payment frequency and related due date provisions will be published in the annual
Federal Register
notification.
(1) Guarantee retention fee payments not received within 60 days after their due date are considered delinquent and, at the Agency's discretion, may result in cancellation of the loan note guarantee to the lender. The Agency will provide the lender 30 calendar days' written notice that the fee is delinquent before canceling the loan note guarantee. Holders' rights will continue in effect as specified in the loan note guarantee and assignment guarantee agreement, unless the holder took possession of an interest in the loan note guarantee knowing guarantee retention fees had not been paid.
(2) Until the loan note guarantee is canceled by the Agency, any delinquent periodic guarantee retention fee will bear interest at the promissory note rate.
(3) When the Agency repurchases 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan as prescribed in § 5001.511(c), the Agency will discontinue collection of the periodic guarantee retention fee.
(d)
Secondary market prohibition.
Lenders are prohibited from selling any portion of the guaranteed loan on the secondary market if there are unpaid periodic guarantee retention fees.
§ 5001.456
Other fees.
The Agency has the authority and may at its discretion charge additional fees in order to maintain adequate levels of program funding. Prior to the Agency charging any additional fees, the Agency will publish a notice of those fees in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 5001.10. All fees will be disclosed in the conditional commitment specific to the project as issued to the lender at the time approval.
(a) Until the loan note guarantee is canceled by the Agency, any delinquent fees will bear interest at the promissory note rate.
(b) Lenders are prohibited from selling any portion of the guaranteed loan on the secondary market if there are unpaid fees.
§ 5001.457
Changes prior to loan closing.
(a)
Change in borrower prior to closing.
Any change in borrower ownership or organization prior to the issuance of the loan note guarantee must meet the applicable guaranteed program's eligibility requirements and must be approved by the Agency.
(b)
Transfer to new lender prior to issuance of the loan note guarantee.
Prior to issuance of the loan note guarantee, a lender can request a transfer of an outstanding conditional commitment to a new lender by providing the Agency with a letter from the lender, the borrower, and the proposed new lender. The request must include the reason(s) the current lender no longer desires to be the lender for the project.
(1) The Agency may approve the transfer from the current lender to the proposed new lender provided the new proposed lender is an eligible lender (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section) and no material adverse changes have occurred in the:
(i) Ownership, control or legal structure of the borrower; and
(ii) Borrower's written plan, scope of work, or the purpose or intent of the project.
(2) The Agency will determine if the proposed new lender is eligible in accordance with § 5001.130 of this part prior to approving the transfer of lender. The new lender must execute a new application form and a lender's agreement (unless the new lender already has a valid lender's agreement with the Agency) and must complete a new credit evaluation in accordance with § 5001.202 of this part. The Agency may require the new lender to provide other updated application items as specified by the Agency.
(3) If the Agency approves the transfer to the new lender, the Agency will issue a letter of amendment to the original conditional commitment reflecting the new lender who must acknowledge acceptance of the amended conditional commitment in writing.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.458
Other Federal, State, and local requirements.
Beginning on the date of issuance of the loan note guarantee, lenders and borrowers must—
(a) Coordinate with all appropriate Federal, State, local and Tribal agencies that may have jurisdiction or involvement in each project; and
(b) Comply with all current Federal, State, local, and Tribal laws and rules, as well as applicable regulatory commission rules, that affect the project, the borrower, or lender. Compliance activities include, but are not limited to—
(1) Organization and borrower's authority to design, construct, develop, operate, and maintain the proposed facilities;
(2) Borrowing money, giving security, and raising revenues for repayment;
(3) Land use zoning;
(4) Health, safety, and sanitation standards as well as design and installation standards; and
(5) Protection of the environment and consumer affairs.
§ 5001.459
Replacement of loan note guarantee and assignment guarantee agreement.
If a loan note guarantee or assignment guarantee agreement has been lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced while in the custody of the lender or holder, the Agency may issue a replacement to the lender or holder, as applicable under the conditions described in paragraphs (a) through (b) of this section. The lender is prohibited from altering or modifying or approving any alterations to or modifications of any loan documents without the prior written approval of the Agency.
(a)
Replacement requirements.
The lender must coordinate the activities of the party who seeks the replacement documents and must submit the required documents to the Agency for processing. The requirements for replacement are as follows:
(1) A written statement of loss which includes:
(i) Legal name and present address of either the lender or the holder who is requesting the replacement forms;
(ii) Legal name and address of the lender of record;
(iii) Capacity of person certifying;
(iv) Full identification of the loan note guarantee or assignment guarantee agreement including the name of the borrower, the Agency's case number, date of the loan note guarantee or assignment guarantee agreement, face amount of the promissory note in which an interest was purchased, date of the promissory note, present balance of the guaranteed loan, percentage of guarantee, and, if an assignment guarantee agreement, the original named holder and the percentage of the guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan assigned to that holder. Any existing parts of the document to be replaced must be attached to the certificate;
(v) A full statement of circumstances of the loss, theft, destruction, defacement, or mutilation of the loan note guarantee or assignment guarantee agreement; and
(vi) For the holder, evidence demonstrating current ownership of the assignment guarantee agreement. If the present holder is not the same as the original holder, the lender must include a copy of the endorsement of each successive holder in the chain of transfer from the initial holder to present holder. If copies of the endorsement cannot be obtained, the lender must submit the best available records of transfer (
e.g.,
order confirmation, canceled checks, etc.).
(b)
Indemnity bond.
An indemnity bond acceptable to the Agency must accompany the request for replacement except when the holder is the United States, a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal Government corporation, a State or territory, the District of Columbia or a federally recognized tribal entity. The indemnity bond must:
(1) Be issued by a qualified surety company holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury and listed in Treasury Department Circular 570, except when the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest due the present holder, in accordance with § 5001.450(c), is less than $1 million as verified by the lender via a written letter of certification of balance due;
(2) Be issued and payable to the United States of America acting through the Agency;
(3) Be in an amount not less than the unpaid principal and interest; and
(4) Hold the Agency harmless against any claim or demand that might arise or against any damage, loss, costs, or expenses that might be sustained or incurred by reason of the loss or replacement of the instruments.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62198, Oct. 2, 2020; 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]
§§ 5001.460-5001.500
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Servicing Provisions
§ 5001.501
General.
The lender is responsible for servicing the entire loan and taking all servicing actions that a reasonably prudent lender would perform in servicing its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The lender must certify that it will service the guaranteed loan in accordance with this part, its loan servicing policies and procedures, and the lender's agreement. Where a lender's loan servicing policies and procedures address a corresponding requirement in this part or in the lender's agreement, the lender must comply the corresponding requirement in this part, unless otherwise approved by the Agency.
(a) A lender's servicing responsibilities include, but are not limited to,
(1) Periodic borrower visits;
(2) Distribution of guaranteed loan funds;
(3) Collecting payments on guaranteed loans;
(4) Ensuring compliance with the covenants and provisions in the loan agreement, security instruments, and other supplemental agreements relating to the guaranteed loan;
(5) Obtaining and analyzing financial statements;
(6) Ensuring payment of taxes and insurance premiums;
(7) Maintaining liens and lien priority on collateral;
(8) Keeping an inventory of all collateral items, and reconciling the inventory of all collateral sold during guaranteed loan servicing, including liquidation;
(9) Obtaining Agency approvals or concurrence as required; and
(10) Cooperating fully with all oversight and monitoring efforts of the Agency or its representatives as specified in § 5001.502.
(b) The lender must remain mortgagee and secured party of record, notwithstanding the fact that another party may hold a portion of the loan.
(c) The lender must ensure that the borrower has obtained and will maintain all necessary insurance coverage appropriate to the proposed project.
(d) If the Agency determines that the lender is not in compliance with its servicing responsibilities, the Agency reserves the right to take any action the Agency determines necessary to protect the Agency's interests with respect to the guaranteed loan. If the Agency exercises this right, the lender must cooperate with the Agency to rectify the situation.
§ 5001.502
Oversight and monitoring.
The Agency will employ various oversight and monitoring activities in order to ensure compliance with this part. All lenders involved in any manner with any loan note guarantee issued under this part or under a loan note guaranteed previously issued under a guaranteed loan program identified in § 5001.1 of this part must cooperate fully with the Agency in its oversight and monitoring efforts, including, but not necessarily limited to, those identified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
(a)
Reports and notifications.
Lenders must submit to the Agency reports and notifications as required by this part. To facilitate the Agency's oversight and monitoring including, but not necessarily limited to, those identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4), as applicable, of this section.
(1)
Status reports.
No less than semi-annual status reports as of June 30 and December 31 each year (unless more frequent reports are needed as determined by the Agency to protect the financial interests of the government) regarding the condition of the lender's guaranteed loan portfolio (including borrower status and loan classification) and any material change in the general financial condition of any borrower since the last report was submitted. The lender must submit these reports within 30 calendar days after the reporting period, using the appropriate Agency online reporting system.
(2)
Default reports.
Monthly default reports for each guaranteed loan in monetary default using the appropriate Agency online reporting system are due on the 15th working day of each month.
(3)
Notifications.
The lender(s) must notify the Agency by written notification within 15 calendar days of any:
(i) Loan agreement violation by any borrower, including when the borrower is 30 days past due or is otherwise in default of the covenants in the loan agreement;
(ii) Permanent or temporary reduction in the interest rate;
(iii) Downgrade in the lender's loan classification of any guaranteed loan; and
(iv) Protective advances in accordance with § 5001.516.
(4)
Collection activities report.
If a lender is liquidating the assets of a borrower, the lender must also evaluate and provide a report of collection activities regarding the collectability of personal and corporate guarantees.
(b)
Records
—(1)
Lenders.
Upon request by the Agency, the lender must permit representatives of the Agency (or other authorized persons) to inspect and make copies of any of the records of the lender pertaining to each guaranteed loan issued under this part or previously issued under one of the programs identified in § 5001.1 of this part. Such inspection and copying may be made during regular office hours of the lender or at any other time the lender and the Agency agree upon.
(2)
Borrowers.
Except as provided by law, upon request by the Agency, the borrower must permit representatives of the lender (or other authorized persons) to inspect and make copies of any of the records relating to the borrower's project. Such inspection and copying may be made during regular office hours of the borrower or at any other time agreed upon between the borrower and the lender.
(c)
Agency and lender conference.
When requested by the Agency, the lender must consult with the Agency to ascertain how the guaranteed loan is being serviced and that the conditions
and covenants of the loan agreement are being enforced.
(d)
Access to the project.
Until the loan note guarantee is terminated, the borrower must allow the lender and therefore the Agency access to the project and its performance information and permit periodic inspections of the project by an authorized representative of the lender or the Agency.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.503
REAP RES or EEI project completion requirements.
Once a REAP RES or EEI project has been completed, the lender or borrower is required to submit the applicable project performance report as identified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section by January 31 each year.
(a)
Renewable energy systems.
For RES projects, commencing the first full calendar year following the year in which project construction was completed and continuing for three full years, the borrower must provide an outcome project performance certification noting that either the system has or has not performed at the steady state operating level as described in the technical report filed with the REAP guaranteed loan application, and whether projected jobs created or saved have occurred. If it has not performed as intended, a report detailing the circumstances affecting performance must be provided to the Agency along with the actual energy production of the system (in BTUs, kilowatt-hours, or similar energy equivalents) and the actual number of jobs created or saved as a direct result of the RES project for which guaranteed loan funds were used.
(b)
Energy efficiency improvements.
For EEI projects, commencing the first full calendar year following the year in which project construction was completed and continuing for two full years, the borrower must provide an outcome project performance certification noting that either the energy efficiency improvements have or have not been utilized at or above the projected operating levels as described in the technical report filed with the REAP guaranteed loan application, and whether projected jobs created or saved have occurred. If it has not performed as intended, a report detailing the circumstances affecting performance must be provided to the Agency along with the actual energy savings of the system and the actual number of jobs created or saved as a direct result of the EEI project for which guaranteed loan funds were used.
§ 5001.504
Financial reports.
(a) The lender must obtain the borrower's and any guarantor's financial statements required by this part and the loan agreement. The Agency may require an annual audited financial statement based on a project's circumstances. States, local government, Indian tribes, institution of higher education, and nonprofit organization borrowers who meet the Federal awards expended threshold established in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, “Audit Requirements,” during their fiscal year must submit an audit conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
(b) The lender must submit financial statements obtained under this section to the Agency within 120 days of the end of the borrower's fiscal year. When the borrower's audit is conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, audits must be submitted no later than nine months after the end of the borrower's fiscal year or 30 days after the borrower's receipt of the auditor's report, whichever is earlier. If a lender makes reasonable documented attempts to obtain financial statements but is unable to obtain the borrower's (or guarantor's) cooperation, the failure to obtain financial statements does not impair the validity of the loan note guarantee.
(c) Annual financial statements must be in accordance with accounting practices acceptable to the Agency as prescribed in § 5001.9 for all borrowers with a guaranteed loan balance in excess of $600,000. The lender may determine the type and frequency of financial statements for borrowers with a total guaranteed loan balance below $600,000 upon notification and justification to the Agency. This section does not supersede the borrower financial statement requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
(d) The lender must analyze the financial statements obtained under paragraph (a) of this section and provide the Agency with a financial analysis including a credit evaluation of trends, strength and weaknesses, ratio analysis, and conclusions, plus any extraordinary transactions; borrower violations of loan covenants and covenant waivers proposed by the lender, any routine servicing actions performed; and other indications of the financial condition of the borrower.
(e) Following the Agency's review of the lender's financial analysis, the Agency will notify the lender in writing of any concerns. The lender must address each concern identified in the Agency's findings by the due date stated in the correspondence.
(f) The lender should routinely confirm the outstanding principal balance of a guarantee held by a holder to avoid any discrepancy and delay in reconciliation in the event of a lender or Agency repurchase of the guaranteed loan from a holder in accordance with § 5001.511.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 96860, Dec. 6, 2024]
§ 5001.505
Collateral inspection and release.
(a)
Inspection of collateral.
The lender must inspect the collateral as often as necessary to properly service the guaranteed loan.
(b)
Release of collateral.
The lender must provide written justification for the release and obtain Agency approval before releasing any collateral. The lender is not required to provide justification for the release of collateral when the loan is not in default or liquidation and the collateral being released is a working asset, such as accounts receivable, inventory, and work-in-progress, that are routinely depleted or sold and proceeds used for the normal course of business operations.
(1)
Exceptions to prior approval.
Lenders are not required to obtain Agency approval prior to releasing collateral when the collateral sale proceeds are used to pay down debt in order of lien priority, pay down the guaranteed loan principal, or to acquire replacement collateral.
(2)
Appraisals.
Current appraisals are required on all transactions pursuant to the requirements of § 5001.203 of this part.
(3)
Sale or release transaction.
The sale or release of collateral must be based on an arm's length transaction, unless otherwise approved, in writing, by the Agency when the sale or release of collateral results in paying the guaranteed loan in full and termination of the loan note guarantee. There must be adequate consideration at market value for the release of collateral. Such consideration may include, but is not limited to:
(i) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to the borrower's debts in order of their lien priority against the sold collateral;
(ii) Use of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to purchase other collateral of equal or greater value which the lender will obtain as security for the benefit of the guaranteed loan with a lien position equal or superior to the position previously held;
(iii) Application of the net proceeds from the sale of collateral to the borrower's guaranteed loan or to its business operation in such a manner that a significant improvement to the borrower's debt service ability will be clearly demonstrated. The lender's written request must detail how the borrower's debt service ability will be improved; and
(4)
No adverse impact.
Any release of collateral must not materially cause an adverse effect to the project's operation or financial condition and the remaining collateral must be sufficient to provide for adequate collateral coverage. Such assurance must be supported by written documentation from the lender and be acceptable to the Agency. If the Agency determines that the project may be adversely affected by a release of collateral, the Agency may, at its discretion, require an appraisal on the remaining collateral in accordance with § 5001.203 of this part.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.506
Loan transfers and assumptions.
(a)
General.
A lender must obtain prior written Agency approval in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section before the lender conducts a transfer and assumption of a guaranteed loan. The transferee will assume a loan amount at least equal to the outstanding loan balance or the present market value of the collateral, whichever is less. If the transferor is to receive a payment for their equity, the total debt must be assumed. The following conditions must be met:
(1) All transfers and assumptions will have a fee as provided by § 5001.509(b).
(2) For each transfer and assumption, the lender must concur in plans for the disposition of funds, if any, in the transferor's debt service, operations and maintenance, or other reserve accounts.
(3) The lender must confirm that the transfer and assumption can be completed in accordance with applicable laws.
(4) The lender must confirm that the conveyance instruments will be filed, registered, and recorded as appropriate and legally permissible. The transfer and assumption must be made on the Lender's form of assumption agreement and contain the Agency case number of the transferor and transferee. The lender must provide the Agency with a copy of the assumption agreement.
(5) The lender may request a transfer and assumption when the total indebtedness, or less than the total indebtedness, of the guaranteed loan is assumed by another borrower. If the assumption is for less than the total indebtedness, the transfer and assumption must be an arm's length transaction and the transfer must be of all loan collateral.
(6) In the event of default of the guaranteed loan, a transfer and assumption of the borrower's operation and guaranteed loan can be accomplished before or after the loan goes into liquidation. However, if the collateral has been purchased through foreclosure or the borrower has conveyed title to the lender, no transfer and assumption is permitted.
(7) No transfer and assumption is permitted when the Agency has repurchased any guaranteed portion of the guaranteed portion of the loan.
(8) If the transfer is for less than the total indebtedness, the pro rata share of an eligible loss will be paid to the lender after execution of the transfer and assumption documents.
(b)
Documentation.
The lender will provide to the Agency documentation to support the transferee's status as an eligible borrower, and such other documentation as the Agency may request to determine eligibility and credit evaluation.
(1) The new borrower must sign an Agency-approved application form.
(2) The Agency will require personal and/or corporate guarantee(s) in accordance with § 5001.204 of this part, as applicable. Any required new personal, partnership or corporate guarantors of the transferred guaranteed loan must sign an Agency approved guarantee form.
(c)
Agency approval.
The Agency will only approve a transfer and assumption if the transferee will continue the eligible purpose of the guaranteed loan and such transfer and assumption complies with the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable.
(1) Whenever the transferor and transferee are affiliates or related parties, the transfer and assumption must:
(i) Be to an eligible borrower to continue the project for eligible purposes;
(ii) Transfer all the loan collateral; and
(iii) Be for the full amount of the guaranteed loan indebtedness.
(2) A transfer and assumption may be approved when the present borrower is unable or unwilling to accomplish the objectives of the guaranteed loan, and the transfer will be in the best financial interest of the borrower and the Agency.
(3) The Agency prefers to transfer to an eligible borrower subject to the policies and procedures governing the type of guaranteed loan being made, however the Agency will consider approving a transfer of a guaranteed loan to an ineligible borrower only if:
(i) The sale price is greater than it would be if the transfer was to an eligible borrower;
(ii) The transfer to an ineligible borrower is needed as a method for servicing a problem case; or
(iii) When an eligible borrower is not available. All transfers to an ineligible borrower must meet the following requirements:
(A) Transfer fees will be collected, and payments applied, in accordance with § 5001.509(b);
(B) The ineligible borrower agrees to pay the loan balance within the remaining term of the original guaranteed loan in periodic installments that will not result in a balloon payment at the loan's maturity;
(C) Interest rates are at the rate specified in the promissory note of the transferor or at rates customarily charged borrowers in similar circumstances in the ordinary course of business. The rates can be either fixed or variable, and are subject to Agency review and approval;
(D) The ineligible borrower must have the legal authority to enter into the contract and have the ability to repay the loan, as determined by the lender and the Agency. The ineligible borrower must submit a current balance sheet to the lender. The lender must obtain and analyze the credit history of the ineligible borrower.
(d)
Release of liability.
The transferor, including any guarantor, can be released from liability only with prior Agency written approval when the transfer and assumption is for the full outstanding balance of the guaranteed loan. If the assumption is for less than the full amount of the loan and the Agency pays a loss to the lender, the transferor, including any guarantor, are specifically subject to the Debt Collection Improvement Act provisions unless other workout arrangements have been made.
(e)
Loan agreement.
A new loan agreement or an assumption agreement, acceptable to the Agency must be executed to establish the terms and conditions of the loan being assumed.
(f)
Changes in loan terms.
When a transfer or assumption is made to an eligible borrower continuing the project for eligible purposes, the loan terms may remain the same or may be changed whether the transfer is for the total indebtedness or less than the total indebtedness. If the loan terms are to be changed, the lender must submit a request in accordance with this paragraph (f). The changed loan terms must be concurred to by the Agency, all holders, and the transferee (including guarantors). If there are changes in loan terms, the lender's request will require the following:
(1) An explanation of the reasons for the proposed change in the loan terms, and
(2) Certification that the lien position securing the guaranteed loan will be maintained or improved, and proper insurances will continue to be in effect.
(g)
Loan note guarantee.
The lender is responsible for noting each transfer and assumption on all originals of the loan note guarantee.
(h)
Proceeds.
Before the transfer and assumption is closed, the lender must credit any proceeds received from the sale of collateral to the transferor's guaranteed loan debt in order of lien priority.
(i)
Additional loans.
Guaranteed loans may be used to provide additional funds in connection with a transfer and assumption. The Agency will consider approving a guaranteed loan to provide additional funds in connection with a transfer and assumption pursuant to the lender's submission of a complete application in accordance with 7 CFR part 5001, subpart D.
(j)
Credit quality.
The lender must make a complete credit evaluation in accordance with § 5001.202 of this part to determine viability of the project (subject to the Agency review and approval) including any requirement for deposits in an escrow account as security to meet the applicable equity requirements for the project.
(k)
Appraisals.
If the proposed transfer and assumption is for less than the full amount of the guaranteed loan, an appraisal is required on all the collateral being transferred, and the amount of the assumption must not be less than this appraised value. The lender is responsible for obtaining the appraisal, which must conform to the requirements of § 5001.203 of this part. However, if the original appraisal is more than one year old, but less than two years old, the lender may provide an appraisal with a new effective date of
evaluation in lieu of a completely new appraisal.
(l)
Legal opinion.
Prior to Agency approval, the lender must provide the Agency a preliminary written legal opinion that the guaranteed loan can be properly and legally transferred and assurance that the conveyance instruments will be appropriately filed, registered, and recorded. Upon execution of the transfer and assumption, the lender must provide the Agency with a final legal opinion that the assumption is completed, valid, and enforceable, and the assumption is consistent with the conditions outlined in the Agency's conditions of approval for the transfer and complies with all Agency regulations.
(m)
Promissory notes.
The lender must not issue any new promissory notes, release any mortgages and/or deeds of trust on the existing debt being transferred. An allonge may be attached to existing promissory notes as needed.
(n)
Loss/repurchase resulting from transfer and assumption.
(1) Any resulting loss must be processed in accordance with § 5001.521.
(2) If a holder owns any of the guaranteed portion of the loan, such portion must be repurchased by the lender or the Agency in accordance with § 5001.511.
(o)
Cash down payment.
The lender may allow the transferee to make cash down payments directly to the transferor provided:
(1) The transfer and assumption are made for the total indebtedness to an eligible borrower to continue the project for eligible purposes;
(2) The lender recommends that the cash be released, and the Agency concurs prior to the assumption being completed. The lender can require that an amount be retained for a defined period of time as a reserve against future defaults. Interest on such account may be paid periodically to the transferor or transferee as agreed; and
(3) The lender determines that the transferee has the repayment ability to meet the obligations of the assumed guaranteed loan as well as any other indebtedness.
(p)
Change in control of borrower.
The Agency will deem that a transfer and assumption has occurred whenever there is a significant change in the control of the borrower.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.507
Lender transfer.
(a) After the issuance of a loan note guarantee, a lender may sell or transfer the entire loan to a new lender with prior written approval of the Agency. The Agency may approve the sale or transfer to a new lender if the following conditions are met. The new lender:
(1) Is an eligible lender in accordance with § 5001.130 of this part and is approved as such;
(2) Is able to service the loan in accordance with the original loan documents;
(3) Agrees in writing to acquire title to the unguaranteed portion of the loan held by the original lender and assumes all original loan requirements, including liabilities and servicing responsibilities; and
(4) The transfer to the new lender is requested in writing by the borrower, the proposed new lender, and the original lender of record, if still in existence.
(b) Upon Agency approval, the original lender must transfer to the new lender the:
(1) Original promissory note and loan security documents;
(2) Original loan note guarantee;
(3) Original personal and corporate guarantee(s);
(4) Loan payment history; and
(v) The new lender must agree to accept the current loan terms, including the interest rate, secondary market holder (if any), collateral, loan agreement terms, and guarantors. The new lender can modify the loan terms after acquisition only by submitting a written request to the Agency and receiving Agency approval.
(vi) The new lender must certify to the Agency that the loan transfer has been completed in accordance with applicable laws and all provisions of the original loan remain in full force and effect.
(c) The Agency will not pay any loss or share in any costs (
e.g.,
legal fees, appraisal fees and environmental assessments) for a voluntary transfer of
lender. This includes situations where a lender is merged with or acquired by another lender and situations where the lender has failed and been taken over by a Federal regulatory agency such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the loan is subsequently sold to another lender. However, in situations where the lender has failed and been taken over by a Federal regulator and the loan is liquidated rather than being sold to another lender, the Agency will pay losses and share in costs as if the Federal regulatory agency were an approved new lender.
(d) In cases when there is a transfer to a new lender or when a lender has been merged with or acquired by another lender, the Agency and the new lender must execute a new lender's agreement, unless the new lender already has a valid lender's agreement with the Agency.
(e) After Agency approval of a transfer of lender, all terms of the original loan note guarantee shall transfer to the benefit of the new lender.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.508
Mergers.
Agency approval.
All borrower mergers or consolidations (herein referred to as “mergers”) require approval by the Agency and the lender. The Agency may approve a merger when—
(a) The resulting organization will be eligible for a guaranteed loan and assumes all the liabilities and acquires all the assets of the merged borrower;
(b) The merger is in the best interest of the government and the merging organization;
(c) The resulting organization can meet all required conditions as contained in specific loan agreements; and
(d) All property can be legally transferred to the resulting organization.
§ 5001.509
Servicing fees.
The lender may pass the servicing fees on to the borrower but may not delay payment of the fee to the Agency while collecting the payment from the borrower.
(a)
Guarantee retention fees.
Where the lender is required to pay a periodic guarantee retention fee (see § 5001.455), the fee is due for the entire payment period even if the loan note guarantee is terminated or transferred before the next retention fee payment is due.
(b) Borrower
transfer fee.
The Agency will charge the following fees:
(1) A one-time, $1,500 nonrefundable transfer fee at the time of transfer to an eligible borrower.
(2) Payment of a one-time nonrefundable transfer fee of 1 percent of the guaranteed loan balance to ineligible borrowers.
§ 5001.510
Subordination of lien position.
(a)
Request for subordination.
A lender seeking a subordination of its lien position in collateral must submit a written request to the Agency. The lender must include in the request a financial analysis of the servicing action. The financial analysis must be fully supported by current financial statements, less than 90 calendar days old, of the borrower and guarantors. The lender must receive written Agency approval prior to the subordination.
(b)
Agency approval.
Agency approval of the subordination request requires that:
(1) The subordination of the lender's lien position enhances the borrower's business and is in the best financial interest of the Agency;
(2) The lien to which the guaranteed loan is subordinated is for a fixed dollar amount or fixed credit limit and for a fixed term, after which the guaranteed loan lien priority will be restored;
(3) Remaining collateral is sufficient to provide for adequate collateral coverage of the guaranteed loan after taking into account the lender's discount of collateral consistent with the lender's sound loan-to-discounted value practices and satisfactory justification of the discount used. The Agency may require a current independent appraisal in accordance with § 5001.203. However, if the original appraisal is more than one year old, but less than two years old, the lender may provide an appraisal with a new effective date of evaluation in lieu of a completely new appraisal;
(4) Lien priorities remain for the portion of the loan collateral that was not subordinated;
(5) The subordination of collateral to a line of credit does not extend beyond the term of the line of credit and in no event exceeds more than three years.
(6) Subordination to a tax-exempt obligation is strictly prohibited in compliance with OMB Circular A-129, “Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables.”
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79727, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.511
Repurchases from holders.
(a)
General.
A holder can make written demand on either the lender or the Agency to repurchase the unpaid guarantee portion of the loan when the borrower is in monetary default or when the lender has failed to pay the holder its pro-rata share of any payment made by the borrower within 30 days of the lender's receipt thereof from the borrower. When making written demand on the lender, the holder must concurrently send a copy of the demand letter to the Agency.
(1) The lender is encouraged to repurchase the guarantee, upon written demand of a holder, to facilitate the accounting of funds, resolve any loan problem, and resolve the monetary default, where and when reasonable. The benefit to the lender is that it may re-assign the guaranteed portion of the loan and then continue collection of its servicing fee, if any, when the monetary default is cured.
(2) When a lender receives a written demand for repurchase from a holder, the lender must notify any other holder and the Agency within 30 calendar days of receipt of the written demand. The lender must inform all parties if the lender will repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan from the requesting holder.
(3) Upon repurchase the holder will re-assign the assignment guarantee agreement to the lender without recourse.
(b)
Repurchase by lender for loan servicing purposes.
If the lender, borrower, and holder are unable to agree to restructuring of loan repayment, interest rate, or loan terms to resolve any loan problem or resolve any default and repurchase of the guaranteed portion of the loan is necessary to adequately service the loan, the holder must reassign the guaranteed portion of the loan to the lender. The reassignment must be for an amount not less than the holder's unpaid principal and accrued interest, in accordance with § 5001.450(c) of this part, on such portion less the lender's servicing fee.
(1) Upon repurchase the holder will re-assign the assignment guarantee agreement to the lender without recourse.
(2) The lender must not repurchase from the holder for arbitrage or other purposes to further its own financial gain.
(3) Any repurchase from a holder may only be made after the lender obtains the Agency's written approval.
(c)
Agency repurchase.
If the lender does not repurchase the guaranteed portion from the holder, the Agency may, at its option, purchase such guaranteed portion of the loan for loan servicing purposes. A holder can submit a written demand to the Agency for repurchase only if the lender declines to repurchase. If a prior written demand was not made upon the lender, the Agency will notify the lender and allow up to seven calendar days for the lender to exercise their option to repurchase as provided in this section.
(1)
Lender does not repurchase.
If the lender does not repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of a loan as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will, within 30 calendar days after written demand to the Agency from the holder, purchase from the holder the unpaid principal balance of the guaranteed portion together with accrued interest to date of repurchase or the interest termination date, whichever is sooner, less the lender's servicing fee. The guarantee will pay accrued interest to the holder on the loan as determined under § 5001.450(c) of this part.
(2)
Written demand content.
The holder must include in its written demand to the Agency:
(i) A copy of the written demand made upon the lender;
(ii) A copy of the lender's denial to repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the guaranteed loan;
(iii) Evidence of the right to require payment from the Agency as provided by the holder or duly authorized agent.
Such evidence must consist of the original assignment guarantee agreement properly assigned to the Agency without recourse including all rights, title, and interest in the loan;
(iv) The amount due including unpaid principal, unpaid interest to date of demand, and interest subsequently accruing from date of demand to proposed payment date; and
(v) When the initial holder has assigned its interest, the original assignment guarantee agreement and an original of each Agency-approved reassignment document in the chain of ownership, with the latest reassignment being assigned to the Agency without recourse, including all rights, title, and interest in the guarantee.
(3)
Payment.
Unless otherwise agreed upon, payment will not be later than 30 calendar days from the date of demand.
(i) Upon request by the Agency, the lender must promptly furnish (within 30 calendar days of such request) a current statement, certified by an appropriate authorized officer of the lender, of the unpaid principal and interest then owed by the borrower on the loan and the amount then owed to any holder, along with the information necessary for the Agency to determine the appropriate amount due the holder.
(ii) Any discrepancy between the amount claimed by the holder and the information submitted by the lender must be resolved between the lender and the holder before payment will be approved. The Agency will notify both parties and such conflict will suspend the running of the 30-calendar-day payment requirement.
(iii) If a repurchase of a guaranteed loan includes the capitalization of interest, interest accrued on the capitalized interest will not be paid to the holder.
(4)
Subrogation.
When the Agency purchases a loan from a holder it assumes all rights that were previously held by the holder.
(5)
Servicing fee.
When the Agency purchases the guaranteed portion of the loan from a holder, the lender's servicing fee will stop on the date that interest was last paid by the borrower. The lender can neither charge a servicing fee to the Agency nor collect such fee from the Agency.
(6)
Accrued interest.
If the Agency repurchases 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of a loan and becomes the holder, interest accrual on the loan will cease until the lender resumes remittance of the pro rata payments to the Agency.
(7)
Establishing interest termination date.
When a guaranteed loan has been delinquent more than 60 calendar days and no holder comes forward or when the lender has accelerated the account, and subject to the expiration of any forbearance or workout agreement, the lender, or the Agency at its sole discretion, must issue a letter to the holder(s) establishing the interest termination date in accordance with § 5001.450(c)(2).
(8)
Obligations and rights.
Purchase by the Agency neither changes, alters, or modifies any of the lender's obligations to the Agency arising from the lender's agreement, guaranteed loan or loan note guarantee, nor does it waive any of the Agency's rights against the lender. The Agency will have the right to set-off against the lender all rights inuring to the Agency as the holder of the instrument against the Agency's obligation to the lender under the loan note guarantee.
(9)
Accelerated loan.
When the lender has accelerated the loan and the lender holds all or a portion of the guaranteed loan, an estimated loss claim must be filed by the lender with the Agency within 60 calendar days from the date the loan was accelerated. Accrued interest paid to the lender in accordance with § 5001.450(c)(1).
(10)
Interest termination during bankruptcy.
When a borrower files a Chapter 7 liquidation plan, the lender shall immediately notify the Agency and submit a liquidation plan. The Agency will establish an interest termination date based on the date interest was last paid to the lender. When a borrower files either a Chapter 9 or Chapter 11 bankruptcy restructuring plan, the Agency and lender shall meet to discuss the bankruptcy procedure, the ability of the borrower to meet their restructuring plan, the lender's treatment of accruing interest, and potentially establish an interest termination date
for the guaranteed loan. If the restructuring bankruptcy Chapter 9 or Chapter 11 is converted to a liquidation bankruptcy Chapter 7 by court order, the interest termination date will be the date of such conversion.
[85 FR 62198, Oct. 2, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79728, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.512
Additional expenditures and loans.
The lender shall not make additional expenditures on behalf of, or provide new loans to, the borrower without notification to the Agency even though such expenditures or loans will not be guaranteed. The lender shall not approve additional expenditures or new loans where the expenditure or loan will violate, or cause a violation of, any of the loan covenants in the borrower's loan agreement.
§ 5001.513
Interest rate changes.
(a)
Interest rate freezes.
The guaranteed loan interest rate will freeze at the earliest uncured default date and will remain unchanged until the cancellation of the loan note guarantee in compliance with § 5001.524.
(b)
Reductions.
The borrower, lender, and holder (if any) may collectively initiate a permanent or temporary reduction in the interest rate of the guaranteed loan at any time during the life of the loan upon written agreement among these parties. After a permanent reduction, the loan note guarantee will only cover losses of interest at the reduced interest rate.
(1) When the Agency is a holder, the lender must obtain Agency approval before implementing the reduction. The lender must provide a copy of the modification agreement to the Agency for approval. The Agency will approve the reduction only when it is demonstrated that the change is more viable than liquidation and that the government's financial interests are not adversely affected.
(2) Factors that the Agency will consider in determining whether to approve the change are the Government's cost of borrowing money; the monetary recovery is greater than the liquidation recovery; and the project's continued viability as demonstrated by a financial feasibility analysis.
(c)
Increases.
Unless a temporary interest rate reduction occurred, increases in fixed interest rates and increases in variable interest rate structure are prohibited.
(d)
Fixed rate to variable rate change.
Fixed rates can be changed to variable rates to reduce the borrower's interest rate only when the variable rate has a ceiling that is less than or equal to the original fixed rate.
(e)
Variable rate to fixed rate change.
Variable rates can be changed to a fixed rate at the request of the borrower, agreement of the holder, if any, and Agency concurrence.
(f)
After adjustments.
The interest rates, after adjustments, must comply with the requirements for interest rates on new loans as established by paragraph § 5001.401.
(g)
Documentation.
The lender is responsible for the legal documentation of interest rate changes by an endorsement or any other legally effective amendment to the promissory note; however, no new promissory notes can be issued. The lender must provide copies of all such documents to the Agency within 10 calendar days of the change.
(3) In a final loss settlement when qualifying interest rate changes are made in compliance with this part, the lender must calculate interest based on the periods the given rates were in effect. The lender must maintain records that adequately document the accrued interest claimed, which must be determined in accordance with § 5001.450(c).
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70358, Dec. 10, 2021]
§ 5001.514
Lender failure.
(a)
General.
In the event a lender fails or ceases to service a guaranteed loan, the Agency will make the successor lending entity aware of the statutory and regulatory requirements and will provide instruction to the successor lending entity on a case-by-case basis. Such instructions may include the Agency's determination that the Agency will service the entire loan or the guaranteed portion of the loan.
(1) Any successor lender must take such action that a reasonable lender would take if it did not have a loan
note guarantee to protect the lender and Agency's mutual interest.
(2) A successor entity approved by the Agency as a lender will be afforded the benefits of the loan note guarantee in the sharing of any loss and eligible expenses subject to the limits that are set forth in the regulations governing the loan guarantee.
(b)
Non-regulated lender.
If the successor lending entity is a non-regulated lender, the lending entity is prohibited from making changes to the lender's agreement and related documents on the guaranteed loan. The successor lending entity must comply with the provisions of this part, including promptly applying to become a lender if not already an eligible lender. If the successor lending entity is not or fails to become a lender as set forth in § 5001.130 of this part within 60 calendar days, the loan note guarantee will not be enforceable.
(c)
Regulated lender.
Where the failed lending entity is an FDIC regulated lender, the FDIC and the Agency will enter into an Inter-Agency Agreement regarding the FDIC's role as the successor lending entity, and all parties are to abide by this agreement or successor document(s). This agreement sets forth the duties and responsibilities of each Agency when a lender fails. When the FDIC is not the successor to a failed regulated lender, the regulatory agency serving as the successor lending entity and the Agency will abide by terms of the lender's agreement as executed by the originating lender. The Agency reserves the right to request a meeting with the successor lending entity to further define the duties and responsibilities of each agency when a lender fails.
(d)
No successor entity.
In the event no successor lending entity can be determined, the Agency reserves the right to enforce the provisions of the loan documents on behalf of the lender or to purchase the lender's interest in the loan.
§ 5001.515
Default by borrower.
When there is a default by a borrower, the lender must act prudently and expeditiously in working with the borrower to bring the account current or cure the default through restructuring if a realistic plan can be developed, or to accelerate the account and conduct a liquidation in accordance with § 5001.517 and in a manner that will minimize any potential loss.
(a)
Default notification and meetings.
The lender must notify the Agency within the timeframe as provided in § 5001.502(a)(3)(i).
(1) The lender will provide this notification by submitting the guaranteed loan borrower default status report in the Agency's electronic reporting system. The lender must update the loan's status each month until such time as the loan is no longer in default.
(2) If a monetary default exceeds 30 calendar days, the lender must meet with the borrower and, if necessary, the Agency within 45 calendar days of the date of the default to discuss the situation. The lender must provide the Agency with a written summary of the meeting, including any decisions and actions agreed upon within 10 calendar days of the meeting.
(b)
Curative options.
In considering curative actions, providing a permanent cure without adversely affecting the risk to the Agency and the lender is the paramount objective. The lender may consider temporary curative actions (
e.g.,
payment deferments or collateral subordination) provided they strengthen the loan and are in the best financial interest of the lender and the Agency.
(1) Curative actions (subject to the rights of any holder and Agency concurrence) include, but are not limited to, the following options:
(i) Deferment of principal and/or interest payments;
(ii) An additional unguaranteed temporary loan by the lender to bring the account current;
(iii) Re-amortization of or rescheduling the payments on the loan excluding capitalization of accrued interest;
(iv) Transfer and assumption of the loan in accordance with § 5001.506;
(v) Reorganization;
(vi) Liquidation;
(vii) Changes in interest rates in accordance with § 5001.513. Any interest payments must be adjusted proportionately between the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion of the loan; and
(viii) Troubled debt restructure.
(2) The term of any deferment, rescheduling, re-amortization, or moratorium cannot exceed the lesser of the remaining useful life of the collateral or remaining term of the loan as set forth in § 5001.402(b) of this part.
(i) During a period of deferment or moratorium on the guaranteed loan, the lender's non-guaranteed loan(s) and any stockholder or affiliate loans must also be under deferment or moratorium.
(ii) Balloon payments are permitted as a loan servicing option as long as there is a reasonable prospect for successful repayment of the guaranteed loan and the remaining life of the collateral supports the action.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62199, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 5001.516
Protective advances.
Protective advances are allowed only when they are necessary to preserve the value of the collateral. Therefore, a lender must exercise sound judgment in determining that the protective advance preserves collateral and recovery is actually enhanced by making the advance.
(a) Protective advances must be reasonable with respect to the outstanding loan amount and the value of the collateral being preserved.
(b) A lender cannot make protective advances in lieu of additional loans.
(c) A lender must obtain written Agency approval for any protective advance that will cumulatively amount to more than $200,000, or 10 percent of the aggregate outstanding balance of principal and interest, whichever is less, to the same borrower. Payment of real estate taxes by the lender is considered a protective advance, subject to the requirements of this section, and does not require Agency advance approval.
(d) Protective advances constitute an indebtedness of the borrower to the lender and must be secured by collateral to the same extent as the original guaranteed loan. It is the lender's responsibility to ensure that any protective advances are secured by the collateral of the guaranteed loan.
(e) Notwithstanding § 5001.22(c) of this part, upon Agency approval, protective advances can be used to pay Federal tax liens or other Federal debt.
(f) A Protective advance claim will be paid only at the time of the final payment as indicated in the report of loss. In the event of a final loss, protective advances may accrue interest at the promissory note rate from the date of such advance and will be guaranteed at the same percentage of loss as provided for in the loan note guarantee. The loan note guarantee will not cover interest on the protective advance accruing after the interest termination date.
(g) The maximum loss to be paid by the Agency will never exceed the original loan amount plus accrued interest times the percentage of guarantee regardless of any protective advances made.
(h) Holders do not have an interest in protective advances.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79728, Sept. 30, 2024; 89 FR 97477, Dec. 9, 2024]
§ 5001.517
Liquidation.
In the event of one or more incidents of default or third-party actions that the borrower cannot or will not cure or eliminate within a reasonable period of time, the lender, with Agency consent, must provide for liquidation in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section. The lender is responsible for initiating actions immediately and as necessary to assure a prompt, orderly liquidation that will provide maximum recovery. The Agency reserves the right to unilaterally conclude that liquidation is necessary and require the lender to assign the collateral to the Agency and the Agency will then liquidate the loan per paragraph (o) of this section.
(a)
Decision to liquidate.
A decision to liquidate a loan or proceed otherwise must be made when the lender determines that the default cannot be cured or when the Agency and the lender determine that it is in the best interest of the Agency and the lender to liquidate. The decision to liquidate or proceed otherwise with the borrower must be made as soon as possible when one or more of the following exist:
(1) The loan is 90 calendar days behind on any scheduled payment and the
lender and the borrower have not been able to cure the delinquency;
(2) Delaying liquidation will jeopardize full or maximum recovery on the loan; or
(3) The borrower or lender is uncooperative in resolving the problem or the Agency or lender has reason to believe the borrower is not acting in good faith, and immediate liquidation would minimize loss to the Agency.
(b)
Repurchase of loan.
When the decision to liquidate a loan is made, if any portion of the loan has been sold or assigned under § 5001.408 of this part and has not already been repurchased, the lender must make provisions for repurchase in accordance with § 5001.511.
(c)
Lender's liquidation plan.
Within 30 calendar days after the lender decides to liquidate a loan, the lender must submit a written, proposed plan of liquidation to the Agency for approval. The liquidation plan must be detailed and include at least the following information:
(1) Such proof as the Agency requires to establish the lender's ownership of the guaranteed loan promissory note and related security instruments. Such proof may include copies of executed notes; and copies of mortgages or deeds of trust recorded in the appropriate jurisdiction;
(2) A copy of the payment ledger, if available, or other documentation that reflects the current outstanding loan balance, accrued interest to date, and the method of computing the accrued interest. If the interest rate was a variable rate, the lender must include documentation of changes in the agreed upon base rate and when the changes in the loan rate became effective.
(3) A full and complete list of all collateral and a listing of all liens held and status of such liens, plus any personal and corporate guarantees;
(4) The recommended liquidation methods for making the maximum collection possible on the indebtedness and the justification for such methods, including recommended action for acquiring and disposing of all collateral and collecting from guarantors;
(5) Necessary steps for preservation of the collateral including any anticipated protective advances;
(6) The market value and the potential liquidation value, or estimates thereof, of all the collateral securing the loan.
(i) These values or estimates of the collateral must be obtained by the lender through an independent appraisal. If the outstanding balance of principal and interest is less than $250,000, the lender may, instead of an appraisal, obtain these values or estimates by using their primary regulator's policies relating to appraisals and evaluations or, if the lender is not regulated, normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. A copy of the appraisal or valuation will be provided to the Agency with the liquidation plan or as soon as it is available.
(ii) The procedure used to obtain these values or estimates of the collateral must include an evaluation of the impact of any release of hazardous substances, petroleum products, or other environmental hazards.
(iii) Any independent appraiser's fee, including the cost of the environmental site assessment if necessary, will be shared equally by the Agency and the lender;
(7) Proposed protective bid amounts on collateral to be sold at auction and a description to show how the amounts were determined.
(i) A protective bid can be made by the lender, with prior Agency written approval, at a foreclosure sale to protect the lender's and the Agency's interest.
(ii) The protective bid must not exceed the amount of the loan balance plus applicable foreclosure expenses and must be based on the liquidation value and estimated net recovery considering prior liens and outstanding taxes, expenses of foreclosure, and estimated expenses for holding and reselling the property. Foreclosure expenses include, but are not limited to, expenses for resale, interest accrual, length of time necessary for resale, maintenance, guard service, weatherization, and prior liens;
(8) Copies of the borrower's latest available financial statements;
(9) Copies of each guarantor's latest available financial statements;
(10) An itemized list of estimated liquidation expenses expected to be incurred along with justification for each expense. These may include attorney, auctioneer, and other professional fees for services the lender will need to contract to maximize recovery on the loan. Cost could also include legal representation to protect Agency/lender joint interest in bankruptcy or receivership;
(11) Estimated protective advance amounts with justification. Protective advances include, but are not limited to, advances made for taxes, annual assessments, ground rent, hazard and flood insurance premiums affecting the collateral, and other expenses necessary to protect the collateral. Protective advances may include advances necessary to maintain services or address unique situations with proper justification. If the lender has advanced funds without agency approval during the life of the loan, such expenditures or loans will not be guaranteed;
(12) If a voluntary conveyance is considered, the proposed amount to be credited to the guaranteed debt;
(13) Legal opinions, if needed by the lender's legal counsel; and
(14) A schedule to periodically report to the Agency on the progress of liquidation, not to exceed every 60 days.
(d)
Partial liquidation plan.
If actions are necessary to immediately preserve and protect the collateral, the lender may submit a partial liquidation plan and, when approved by the Agency, submit a complete liquidation plan prepared by the lender in accordance with
paragraph (c)
of this section.
(e)
Approval of liquidation plan.
The lender cannot implement its liquidation plan before obtaining written approval from the Agency. The Agency will approve or disapprove the plan within 30 calendar days of its receipt. In order to ensure prompt action, the lender may submit its liquidation plan with an estimate of collateral value, and the Agency may approve the liquidation plan subject to the results of the final liquidation appraisal.
(1) If the Agency approves the lender's liquidation plan, the lender must:
(i) Proceed expeditiously with liquidation. The lender must actively market the collateral for a reasonable period of time. If after this period of time the lender is unable to sell the collateral, then consideration should be given to submission of a final loss claim based on the fair market value of the collateral prior to its ultimate disposition;
(ii) Take all legal action necessary to liquidate the loan in accordance with the approved liquidation plan; and
(iii) Update or modify the liquidation plan when conditions warrant, including a change in value based on a liquidation appraisal.
(iv) If changed circumstances after submission of the liquidation plan require a revision of liquidation costs, the lender must obtain the Agency's written approval prior to proceeding with the proposed changes if the revised liquidation costs exceed 10 percent of the amount proposed in the liquidation plan approved by the Agency.
(2) If the Agency does not approve the lender's liquidation plan, the Agency will meet with the lender to resolve the concern(s). Until the concerns are resolved, the lender must take such actions that a reasonable lender would take without a guarantee and keep the Agency informed, in writing, of those actions. Once the revised liquidation plan is approved by the Agency, the lender must proceed in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(f)
Acceleration.
The lender must proceed to accelerate the loan as expeditiously as possible when acceleration is necessary, including giving any notices and taking any other required legal actions. The guaranteed loan will be considered in liquidation once it has been accelerated and a demand for payment has been made upon the borrower.
(1) If the sole basis for acceleration is a non-monetary default, the lender must obtain concurrence from the Agency prior to accelerating the loan. In the case of monetary default, the lender may accelerate the loan without prior approval by the Agency, although Agency concurrence must still be given no later than the time the Agency approves the liquidation plan.
(2) The lender must provide the Agency a copy of the acceleration notice, or
other acceleration document sent to the borrower.
(g)
Estimated loss claim and payment.
If the lender is conducting the liquidation and owns any or all the guaranteed portion of the loan, the lender must file an estimated loss claim once a decision has been made to liquidate if the liquidation will exceed 90 calendar days. The Agency will process the estimated loss claim and will make final loss payments in accordance with § 5001.521.
(h)
Liquidation expenses.
(1) The guarantee will not cover liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds under any circumstances.
(2) When a liquidation is performed by the lender, the Agency must approve, in advance and in writing, the lender's estimated liquidation expenses of collateral.
(3) Liquidation expenses must be reasonable and customary and must provide a demonstrated economic benefit to the lender and the Agency. The lender and Agency will share liquidation expenses equally. To accomplish this, the lender must deduct 50 percent of the liquidation expenses from the collateral sale proceeds.
(i)
Accounting and reports.
The lender must account for funds during the period of liquidation and must provide the Agency with reports on the progress of liquidation including disposition of collateral and resulting costs. If in the course of implementing the approved liquidation plan the lender determines additional procedures are necessary for the successful completion of the liquidation or otherwise makes any other changes to or deviations from the approved liquidation plan, the lender must identify in the report such procedures, changes, and deviations.
(j)
Transmitting payments and proceeds to the Agency.
When the Agency is the holder of a portion of the guaranteed loan, the lender must transmit to the Agency within 14 calendar days the Agency's pro rata share of any payments received from the borrower, liquidation, or other proceeds using an Agency approved form.
(k)
Disposition of collateral.
(1) Disposition of collateral acquired by the lender must be approved, in writing, by the Agency when—
(i) The lender's cost to acquire the collateral of a borrower exceeds the potential recovery value of the security and the lender proposes abandoning the collateral in lieu of liquidation; or
(ii) The acquired collateral is to be sold to the borrower, affiliates or members of the borrower or to borrower's stockholders or officers, or the lender or lender's stockholders or officers.
(2) A recommendation by the lender for abandonment of collateral is considered a servicing action under 7 CFR 1970.8(e) and a separate NEPA review is not required.
(l)
Disposition of personal or corporate guarantees.
The lender must take action to maximize recovery from all personal and corporate guarantees, including seeking deficiency judgments when there is a reasonable chance of future collection.
(m)
Compromise settlement.
Compromise settlements must be approved by the lender and the Agency. The lender must provide complete current financial information on all parties obligated for the loan. At a minimum, the compromise settlement must be equivalent to the value and timeliness of that which would be received from attempting to collect on the guarantee. Any guarantor cannot be released from liability until the full amount of the compromise settlement has been received. In determining whether to approve a compromise settlement, the Agency will consider, among other things, whether the compromise is more financially advantageous than collecting on the guarantee.
(n)
Liquidation provisions selection.
(1) If a lender has made a loan guaranteed under one of the programs identified in § 5001.1 of this part, the lender has the option to liquidate the loan under the provisions of this part or under the entire provisions of applicable regulation at the time the loan was guaranteed by the Agency.
(2) The lender must notify the Agency in writing within 10 calendar days after its decision to liquidate as to which regulatory provisions it chooses to use. If the lender does not notify the
Agency in writing within these 10 calendar days, it must use the liquidation provisions in this part.
(o)
Agency liquidation.
The Agency will liquidate a guaranteed loan at its option only when it is a holder and there is reason to believe the lender is not likely to undertake liquidation efforts that will result in maximum recovery. When it conducts a liquidation, the Agency will apply proceeds derived from the sale of the collateral first to reasonable liquidation expenses and second to the guaranteed portion of the loan.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79728, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.518
[Reserved]
§ 5001.519
Bankruptcy.
(a)
Lender's responsibilities.
The lender is responsible for protecting the guaranteed loan and the collateral securing it in bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Taking actions that result in greater recoveries and avoiding actions that are likely not to be cost-effective;
(2) Monitoring confirmed bankruptcy plans to determine borrower compliance, and, if the borrower fails to comply, pursuing appropriate relief, including seeking a dismissal of the bankruptcy plan;
(3) Requesting modifications of any proposed bankruptcy plan whenever it appears that the lender could obtain additional recoveries via plan modification;
(4) Filing a proof of claim, when necessary, and all the necessary papers and pleadings concerning the case;
(5) Attending and, when necessary, participating in meetings of the creditors and all court proceedings;
(6) Immediately seeking adequate protection of the collateral if it is subject to being used by the trustee in bankruptcy or the debtor in possession;
(7) When appropriate, seeking involuntary conversion of a pending chapter 11 case to a liquidation proceeding or seeking dismissal of the proceedings;
(8) Submitting a default status report within 15 calendar days after the date when the borrower defaults and every 30 calendar days thereafter until the default is resolved or a final loss claim is paid by the Agency; and
(9) Informing the Agency within 10 working days upon notification of the filing of a bankruptcy case and keeping the Agency adequately and regularly informed, in writing, of all aspects of the proceedings, at a minimum, on a bi-monthly basis.
(b)
Appraisals.
In a Chapter 9 or Chapter 11 reorganization, the lender must obtain an independent appraisal of the collateral if the Agency has determined that an independent appraisal is necessary. With written Agency consent, the lender and Agency will equally share the cost of any independent appraisal fee to protect the guaranteed loan in any bankruptcy proceedings.
(c)
Repurchase from the holder.
The Agency or the lender, with the approval of the Agency, can initiate the repurchase of the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan from the holder. If the lender is the holder, an estimated loss payment may be filed at the initiation of a Chapter 7 proceeding or after a Chapter 9 or Chapter 11 proceeding becomes a liquidation proceeding. Any loss payment on loans in bankruptcy must be approved by the Agency.
(d)
Reports of loss during bankruptcy.
In bankruptcy proceedings, the lender must use the report of loss form for reporting all estimated and final loss determinations. Payment of loss claims will be made as provided in this section.
(1)
Estimated loss payments.
(i) If a borrower has filed for bankruptcy and all or a portion of the debt has been discharged, the lender must request an estimated loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court. Only one estimated loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings. The Agency will treat all subsequent claims of the lender during bankruptcy and any related appellate proceedings as revisions to the initial estimated loss. At its option, the Agency may process a revised estimated loss payment in accordance with any court-approved changes in the bankruptcy plan. Once
the bankruptcy plan has been satisfactorily completed, the lender is responsible for submitting the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the estimated loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest and to reimburse the lender for any court-ordered interest rate reduction under the terms of the bankruptcy plan.
(ii) The lender must use the report of loss to request an estimated loss payment and to revise any estimated loss payments during the bankruptcy plan. The estimated loss claim, as well as any revisions to this claim, must be accompanied by documentation to support the claim.
(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, the lender must—
(A) Enter the data directly into the Agency's electronic system; and
(B) Provide the Agency with the documentation necessary to determine whether the estimated loss paid equals the actual loss sustained. Where the actual loss sustained is different than the estimated loss paid, the difference will be handled in accordance with § 5001.521(h).
(2)
Bankruptcy loss payments.
(i) The lender must request a bankruptcy loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court for all bankruptcies when all or a portion of the debt has been discharged. Unless a final court decree approves a subsequent change to the bankruptcy plan that is adverse to the lender, only one bankruptcy loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy. Once a final court decree has discharged all or part of the guaranteed loan and any appeal period has run, the lender must submit the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the bankruptcy loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest.
(ii) The lender must use the report of loss to request a bankruptcy loss payment and to revise any bankruptcy loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy. The lender must include with the bankruptcy loss claim documentation to support the claim, as well as any revisions to this claim.
(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, restructure, or liquidation, the lender must enter the data directly into the Agency's electronic reporting system.
(iv) If an estimated loss claim is paid during a bankruptcy and the borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the lender, a final report of loss will be filed to terminate the loan.
(3)
Interest losses as a result of bankruptcy reorganization.
Interest losses as a result of bankruptcy reorganization will be paid as described in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) For guaranteed loans closed for which the Agency has not issued an interest termination letter—
(A) The loss of interest income sustained during the period of the bankruptcy plan will be processed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(B) The loss of interest income sustained after the bankruptcy plan is confirmed will be processed annually when the lender sustains a loss as a result of a permanent interest rate reduction that extends beyond the period of the bankruptcy plan; and
(C) If an estimated loss claim is paid during the operation of the bankruptcy plan and the borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the lender, a final report of loss will be filed to terminate the loan.
(ii) For guaranteed loans closed for which the Agency has issued an interest termination letter, the Agency will not compensate the lender for any difference in the interest rate specified in the loan note guarantee and the rate of interest specified in the bankruptcy plan.
(4)
Final bankruptcy loss payments.
The Agency will process final bankruptcy loss payments when the loan is fully liquidated.
(5)
Application of loss claim payments.
The lender must apply estimated loss payments first to the principal balance of the guaranteed portion of the debt and then to the interest of the guaranteed portion of the debt. In the event a court attempts to direct the payments to be applied in a different manner, the lender must immediately notify the Agency in writing.
(6)
Protective advances.
If approved protective advances, as authorized by § 5001.516, were incurred in connection with the initiation of liquidation action and were required to protect the collateral as result of delays in the case or failure of the borrower to maintain the security prior to the borrower having filed bankruptcy, the protective advances together with accrued interest, as determined under § 5001.450(c) of this part, are payable under the guarantee in the final loss claim.
(e)
Liquidation expenses during bankruptcy proceedings.
(1) The liquidation expenses will be in compliance with § 5001.517(h).
(2) Reasonable and customary liquidation expenses in bankruptcy may be deducted from liquidation proceeds of collateral. In the case of Chapter 11 reorganizations or Chapters 11 or 7 liquidation, only expenses authorized by the court can be deducted from the collateral proceeds, unless the liquidation is by the lender.
(3) When a bankruptcy proceeding results in a liquidation of the borrower by a bankruptcy trustee appointed under 11 U.S.C. 701, 702, 703, or 1104, expenses will be handled as directed by the court, and the lender cannot claim liquidation expenses for the sale of the assets.
(4) If the property is abandoned by the bankruptcy trustee and any relief from the stay has been obtained, the lender will conduct the liquidation in accordance with § 5001.517.
(5) Proceeds received from partial sale of collateral during bankruptcy can be used by the lender to pay reasonable costs (
e.g.,
freight, labor, and sales commissions) associated with the partial sale. Reasonable use of proceeds for this purpose must be documented with the final loss claim request.
(6) Legal fees as a result of a bankruptcy are limited by the Agency to an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the current principal balance and are only recoverable from liquidation proceeds. Legal fees in excess of 3 percent of the current principal balance shall be borne by the lender and are not recoverable from liquidation proceeds or any loss claim by the lender.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79728, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.520
Litigation.
(a) In all litigation proceedings involving the borrower, the lender is responsible for protecting the rights of the lender and the Agency with respect to the loan and keeping the Agency adequately and regularly informed, in writing, of all aspects of the proceedings. If the Agency determines that the lender is not adequately protecting the rights of the lender or the Agency with respect to the loan, the Agency reserves the right to take any legal action the Agency determines necessary to protect the rights of the lender and Agency, on behalf of the lender or the Agency. If the Agency exercises this right, the lender must cooperate with the Agency. The Agency will assess against the lender any cost the Agency incurs with such action.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Agency reserves the right to be represented by the U.S. Department of Justice in any litigation where the Agency is named as a party.
§ 5001.521
Loss calculations and payment.
Unless the Agency anticipates a future recovery, the Agency will make a final settlement with the lender after the collateral is liquidated or after settlement and compromise of all parties has been completed. The Agency has the right to recover losses paid under the guarantee from any party that may be liable.
(a)
Report of loss form.
The lender must use the report of loss form for all estimated and final loss claim requests.
(b)
Estimated loss claim.
The lender must submit to the Agency a completed report of loss form for all estimated loss claims. In calculating the estimated loss, the lender must use the estimated or current appraised liquidation value of the collateral.
(c)
Estimated loss payment.
The Agency will approve estimated loss payments only after it has approved the lender's liquidation plan. For a loan which has been approved by the Agency for a debt write-down (or debt restructure), the maximum amount of loss payment will not exceed the percent of guarantee multiplied by the difference between the outstanding principal and
interest balance of the loan before the write-down and the outstanding balance of the loan after the write-down.
(1) The amount of an estimated loss payment must be credited first as a deduction from the principal balance of the loan with any remaining balance to accrued interest.
(2) The estimated loss payment cannot be applied as a payment on the loan for purposes of reducing the unpaid balance owed by the borrower for status reporting or any debt collection actions against the borrower or any guarantors.
(d)
Reduction of loss claims payable.
(1) Negligent loan origination and negligent loan servicing will result in a reduction of loss claims payable under the guarantee to the lender if any losses have occurred as the result of such negligence. The Agency will assess against the lender any cost to the Agency associated with actions taken by the Agency necessary to protect the Agency's interests with respect to the loan where a lender is not in compliance with its origination and servicing responsibilities. The extent of the reduction, which could be a total reduction of the loss claims payable, will depend on the extent of the losses incurred as a result of the negligent loan origination or servicing.
(2) Non-compliance with the requirements of
§ 5001.205(a)
or
§ 5001.305(a)
will result in a reduction of loss claims payable. The Agency's review of the non-compliance could result in a total reduction of the loss claim payable. The Agency's review of the non-compliance could result in a total reduction of the loss claim payable. The lender must ensure during loan making and project development that the project is designed utilizing accepted architectural and engineering practices and conforms to applicable Federal requirements including the seismic requirements of Executive Order 12699 (55 FR 835, January 5, 1990), State and local codes and requirements, and facility plans or plans and specifications reviewed and approved by the applicable State regulatory agency. The lender must also ensure that the planned project will be completed within the available funds and once completed, will be suitable for the borrower's needs.
(3) Any delinquent fees, including any interest due thereon, will be deducted from any loss payment due the lender.
(e)
Final loss claim.
Except for certain unsecured personal or corporate guarantees as provided for in this section, the lender must submit a final report of loss to the Agency within 30 calendar days after liquidation of all collateral is completed. The Agency will not guarantee interest beyond the interest termination date or this 30-day period, other than for the period of time it takes the Agency to process the loss claim. The lender must apply the total amount of the loss payment remitted by the Agency to the guaranteed portion of the loan debt. At the time of final loss settlement, the lender must notify the borrower that the loss payment has been so applied. Such application does not release the borrower from liability. Once the lender receives a final loss payment from the Agency, the Agency will collect any outstanding debts owed to the government in accordance with part 3 of this title.
(1)
Loss.
In the event of a loss, the loan note guarantee will not cover—
(i) Interest to the lender accruing after the interest termination date;
(ii) Any interest accrued as the result of the borrower's default on the guaranteed loan over and above that which would have accrued at the Agency-approved promissory note rate on the guaranteed loan (
e.g.,
default interest rate); or
(iii) Any late fees, penalties, bond fees, interest rate swap charges, liquidation expenses, and other costs unless authorized under paragraph (e)(7) of this section.
(2)
Accounting of funds.
Before the Agency will approve a final report of loss, the lender must account for all funds during the period of liquidation, disposition of the collateral, all costs incurred, and any other information necessary for the successful completion of liquidation. The lender must document and show that all the collateral has been accounted for and properly liquidated, and that liquidation proceeds have been properly accounted for and applied correctly on the loan.
(3)
Audit.
Upon receipt of the final accounting and report of loss, the Agency may audit all applicable documentation to determine the final loss. The lender must make its records available to and otherwise assist the Agency in making any investigation or audit of the report of loss. The documentation accompanying the report of loss must support the amounts reported. The Agency must be satisfied that the lender has maximized the collections in conducting the liquidation.
(4)
Guarantees.
The lender must determine the collectability of unsecured personal and corporate guarantees required in accordance with § 5001.204 of this part. The lender must promptly collect or otherwise dispose of such guarantees prior to completion of the final loss report. However, if collection from the guarantors appears unlikely or will require a prolonged period of time, the lender must file the report of loss when all other collateral has been liquidated. Unsecured personal or corporate guarantees outstanding at the time of the submission of the final report of loss will be treated as a future recovery with the net proceeds to be shared on a pro rata basis by the lender and the Agency.
(5)
Federal debt.
Any amounts paid by the Agency on account of liabilities of a borrower constitute a Federal debt owed to the Agency by the borrower. In such case, the Agency can use all remedies available to it to collect the debt from the borrower, including offset in accordance with part 3 of this title.
(i) Any amounts paid by the Agency pursuant to a claim by a lender constitute a Federal debt owed to the Agency by a third-party guarantor of the guaranteed loan, to the extent of the amount of the third-party guarantee. In such case, the Agency can use all remedies available to it to collect the debt from the third-party guarantor including offset in accordance with part 3 of this title.
(ii) The Agency may consider a compromise settlement of a debt owed to the Agency after it has processed a final report of loss and issued a 60-day due process letter. Any funds collected by the Agency will not be shared with the lender.
(6)
Protective advances.
In those instances where the lender made authorized protective advances, the lender can claim recovery for the guaranteed portion of any loss of monies advanced as well as interest resulting from such protective advances. These claims must be included in the final report of loss. The lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of protective advances as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, evidence that the amount expended was proper, and that the amount was actually paid.
(7)
Liquidation expenses.
As provided in § 5001.517(e), certain reasonable liquidation expenses are allowed during the liquidation process. The lender cannot claim any liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds.
(i) Liquidation expenses are recoverable only from liquidation proceeds. The Agency will deduct liquidation expenses from the liquidation proceeds of the collateral unless the costs have been previously determined by the lender (with Agency concurrence) to be protective advances. The lender must provide receipts and a breakdown of liquidation expenses as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, evidence that the amount expended was proper, and that the amount was actually paid.
(ii) The Agency may approve legal fees as liquidation expenses provided that the fees are reasonable, require the assistance of attorneys, and cover legal issues pertaining to the liquidation that could not be properly handled by the lender, its employees or in-house counsel. Approved legal expenses are limited by the Agency to an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the current principal balance and will be shared by the lender and Agency equally. This includes those instances where the lender has incurred such expenses from a trustee conducting the liquidation of assets. Legal fees in excess of 3 percent of the current principal balance shall be borne by the lender and are not recoverable from liquidation proceeds or any loss claim by the lender.
(iii) The lender cannot claim the guarantee fee or the other Agency fees as authorized liquidation expenses, and
In-house expenses of the lender are not allowed.
(8)
Accrued interest.
If the lender holds all or a portion of the guaranteed loan, the Agency will guarantee accrued interest in accordance with § 5001.450(c) of this part.
(i) Accrued interest eligible for payment under the guarantee on a defaulted loan will be discontinued when the estimated loss is paid. Interest will not be paid beyond the interest termination date.
(ii) The lender must support accrued interest by documenting how the amount was accrued, including attaching a copy of both the promissory note and ledger. If the interest rate was a variable rate, the lender must include documentation of changes in both the selected base rate and the loan rate.
(iii) If a restructuring of a guaranteed loan includes the capitalization of interest, the guarantee will not cover the interest accrued on the capitalized interest.
(9)
Acquiring property titles.
If a lender acquires title to property, any loss will be based on the collateral value at the time the lender obtains title. Alternatively, the lender can calculate the final loss settlement using the net proceeds received at the time of the ultimate disposition of the property if—
(i) The lender has submitted to the Agency a written request to use this option within 15 calendar days of acquiring title; and
(ii) The Agency approves the request prior to the lender submitting any request for estimated loss payment.
(f)
Loss limit.
The amount payable by the Agency to the lender cannot exceed the limits contained in the loan note guarantee. If the lender conducts the liquidation, loss occasioned by accruing interest will be covered to the interest termination date, provided the lender proceeds expeditiously with the liquidation plan approved by the Agency. If the Agency conducts the liquidation, loss occasioned by accruing interest will be covered by the guarantee only to the date the Agency accepts this responsibility.
(g)
Rent.
The lender must apply any net rental or other income that it receives from the collateral to the guaranteed loan debt.
(h)
Final loss payment.
The Agency will make loss payments after it has reviewed the complete final report of loss, all collateral has been properly liquidated and accounted for, and the Agency has determined that liquidation expenses are reasonable and within approved limits.
(1) Any estimated loss payments made to the lender will be credited against the final loss payment on the guaranteed loan.
(2) Once the Agency approves the report of loss and supporting documents submitted by the lender—
(i) If the actual loss is greater than any estimated loss payment, the Agency will pay the additional amount owed by the Agency to the lender.
(ii) If the actual loss is less than the estimated loss payment, the lender must reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus interest at the promissory note rate from the date of payment of the estimated loss.
(iii) If the Agency conducted the liquidation, it will provide an accounting to the lender and will pay the lender in accordance with the loan note guarantee.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79728, Sept. 30, 2024]
§ 5001.522
Future recovery.
After a final loss claim has been paid, the lender must use reasonable efforts to collect from any party still liable for future recovery unless the Agency notifies the lender otherwise. Any net proceeds from future recovery will be split pro rata between the lender and the Agency based on the percent of the loan guarantee even if the loan note guarantee has been terminated. Once the Agency determines a debt is Federal debt and provides notice to the lender, that Federal debt is excluded from future recovery. The lender must cease all collection efforts against the borrower and any individual or corporate guarantors upon referral of the debts by the Agency for collection in accordance with part 3 of this title. The Agency will not share with the lender any collection of Federal debt made by the Federal Government from any liable party to the guaranteed loan.
§ 5001.523
Property acquired by the lender.
(a)
Collateral preservation.
When a lender acquires title to the collateral and the final loss claim is not paid until final disposition, the lender must proceed as quickly as possible to develop a plan to fully protect the collateral from deterioration (weather, vandalism, etc.). Hazard insurance in an amount necessary to cover the market value of the collateral must be maintained.
(b)
Collateral sale.
(1) Upon acquiring the collateral, the lender must prepare and submit without delay to the Agency a plan on the best method for the sale of the collateral, keeping in mind any prospective purchasers. The Agency must approve the plan in writing. If an existing approved liquidation plan addresses the disposition of acquired property, no further review is required unless modification of the plan is needed.
(2) Whenever the conversion of collateral to cash can reasonably be expected to result in a negative net recovery amount, the lender should consider abandonment of the collateral. If the lender seeks to abandon the collateral, the lender must obtain written Agency approval before abandoning the collateral.
(c)
Re-title collateral.
Any collateral accepted by the lender must not be titled in the Agency's name in whole or in part.
§ 5001.524
Termination of loan note guarantee.
Each loan note guarantee issued under this part or under one of the guaranteed loan programs identified in § 5001.1 of this part will terminate automatically when one of the events described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section occur. The lender will maintain its guaranteed loan files for at least three years after termination of the loan note guarantee.
(a) The guaranteed loan is paid in full;
(b) Full payment by the Agency of any loss claim or compromised settlement except for future recovery provisions; or
(c) Written request from the lender to the Agency to terminate the guarantee, which will be effective the date the Agency receives the request provided that the lender holds all the guaranteed portion of the loan.
[85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62199, Oct. 2, 2020]
§§ 5001.525-5001.600
[Reserved]
PARTS 5002-5099 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
7 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
7 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XXV
2500.003 (d) through (j) revised
31938
Chapter XXIX
2903.21 Revised
31939
Chapter XXXIV
3430.41 (b) amended
72913
Chapter XXXV
3565.53 Introductory text amended; (a) and (b) revised; eff. 1-4-21
77986
3570.62 (a)(2)(iii) added
57084
3570.71 Revised
59395
3575 Notification
17721, 19655
Removed
42517
3575.24 (b)(5) added
57084
3575.51 Revised
59395
Chapter XLII
4274.314 (b)(16) added
57084
4279 Authority citation revised
31040, 57084
4279.1—4279.100 (Subpart A) Removed
42517
4279.1—4279.100 (Subpart A) Correctly reinstated
62196
4279.1 (a) revised
31040
(a) correctly revised
62196
4279.101—4279.200 (Subpart B) Removed
42518
4279.101—4279.200 (Subpart B) Correctly reinstated
62196
4279.101 (a) revised
31040
(a) correctly revised
62196
4279.113 (z) added
57084
4279.162 Revised
59395
4279.190 Added
31040
4279.202 Amended
29595
4279.210 (d)(10) added
57085
4279.265 (b)(2) revised
29596
4280.15 (i) added
57085
4280.101 (c) added
57085
4280.417 (e) added
57085
4280.428 Revised
59395
4287 Notification
17721, 19655
4287.101—4287.200 (Subpart B) Removed
42518
4287.101—4287.200 (Subpart B) Correctly reinstated
62196
4287.101 (a) correctly revised
62196
4288.136 Introductory text amended
31939
4290 Nomenclature change
16522
4290.50 Amended
16522
4290.210 (d) added
16522
4290.230 (c)(5) amended
16523
4290.330 Revised
16523
4290.340 Introductory text amended
16523
4290.370 Introductory text and (h) revised
16523
4290.380 Amended
16523
4290.390 (b) revised
16523
4290.610 (b) removed; (c) and (d) redesignated as new (b) and (c)
16523
4290.700 Revised
16523
4290.720 (g)(2) revised; (i) and (k) amended
16523
4290.760 (a) amended
16523
Chapter L
Chapter L Added
42518
5001.2 (e) correctly amended
62196
5001.3 Correction: amended
62196
5001.102 (d) introductory text, (3) correctly amended
62196
5001.105 (b)(21) correctly revised
62197
5001.115 (n) correctly revised; (s) added
62197
5001.118 (b)(3) correctly removed
62197
5001.121 (a)(4), (b)(11), and (c)(12) correctly added
62197
5001.130 (b) introductory text correctly revised; (b)(10) added
62197
5001.202 (b)(4)(ii) correctly amended
62197
5001.205 (e)(2) introductory text correctly amended
62197
5001.303 (c)(16) correctly revised; (c)(17) and (18) added
62197
5001.408 (a) introductory text, (4), (5), and (c) correctly revised; (a)(2), (d)(3), and (e) introductory text correctly amended
62197
5001.450 (b)(1) correctly revised
62197
5001.452 (b) introductory text correctly revised
62198
5001.453 (a)(1) and (3) correctly revised
62198
5001.459 introductory text correctly amended; (c) removed
62198
5001.511 Correctly revised
62198
5001.515 (c) removed
62199
5001.524 (d) removed
62199
2021
7 CFR
86 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XLII
4274.301—4274.359 (Subpart D) Revised
72156
4280 Authority citation revised
26353
4280.101—4280.166 (Subpart B) Revised
22309
4280.301—4280.400 (Subpart D) Revised
26353
Regulation at 86 FR 26353 confirmed
54587
4284.1101—4284.1131 (Subpart L) Added
31589
Regulation at 86 FR 31589 confirmed
60753
Chapter L
5001.3 Amended
70354
5001.8 (a) revised; (e) added
70355
5001.104 (c) revised
70355
5001.105 Introductory text, (b)(1), (8) through (10), (d)(1)(i), (ii), (2)(i), (ii), (3)(i), (ii), (4)(i), (ii), and (5)(ii) revised
70355
5001.115 (n) revised
70356
(s) removed
70356
5001.121 Introductory text and (c)(6) revised
70356
5001.126 (e)(3) and (4) redesignated as (e)(4) and (5); new (e)(3) added
70356
5001.130 (a)(6) added
70356
5001.141 (a)(2) revised
70356
5001.202 (b)(5) revised
70356
5001.204 (b) revised
70357
5001.205 (e)(2) introductory text, (ii), and (f)(4) revised
70357
5001.303 (c)(1) through (18) redesignated as (c)(2) through (19); (b)(5) introductory text redesignated as new (c)(1); (b)(5)(i) through (xiii) removed; (b)(6) and (7) redesignated as (b)(5) and (6); (b)(4)(ii) and new (c)(1) revised
70357
5001.304 (a)(1) revised; (a)(4) added
70357
5001.318 Introductory text and (c) introductory text revised; (c)(3) removed; (c)(4) redesignated as new (c)(3)
70357
5001.401 (d) revised
70357
5001.402 (b)(3) revised
70357
5001.408 (b) revised
70358
5001.451 (b)(3) and (e) revised
70358
5001.452 (b) introductory text and (8)(iii)(L)(
2
) revised; (b)(8)(iii)(L)(
3
) added
70358
5001.454 (c) revised
70358
5001.513 (e) revised
70358
2022
7 CFR
87 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XXXIV
3434 Appendix B revised
18605, 42949
Chapter XXXV
3550 Notification
40709
3550 Policy statement
66075
3550.10 Amended
6770
3550.11 (a) and (b) revised
6770
3550.52 (a), (c), and (d)(6) revised
6771
3550.53 (a), (c), (g), and (i) revised
6771
3550.55 (c) introductory text, (4), and (5) revised
6771
3550.56 (b)(1) and (2) revised; (b)(3) removed
6772
3550.57 (a) introductory text revised
6772
3550.59 (a)(2) revised
6772
3550.67 (c) revised
6772
3550.102 (e)(5) revised
6772
3550.103 (e) revised
6772
3550.104 (c) revised
6772
3550.106 (a) revised
6772
3550.108 (b)(1) revised
6772
3550.112 (a) introductory text, (1), and (c) revised
6773
3550.113 (b) revised
6773
3550.162 (b)(1) introductory text and (ii) revised
6773
3550.201 Revised
6773
3550.207 (b)(2) and (c) revised; (d) removed
6773
3550.251 (c)(4), (5), and (d)(2) revised; (c)(6) and (d)(3) removed; (d)(4) redesignated as (d)(3)
6773
3555 Notification
66075
3555.51 (a)(8), (9) introductory text, and (10) introductory text revised; (a)(11), (b)(23), and (24) added
53371
3555.105 (b)(4) and (5) removed; (b)(6) redesignated as new (b)(4)
53372
3555.107 (b) introductory text, (1), (3), (6), (c), and (i)(4) revised
6776
3555.151 (h)(2) introductory text revised
6776
(i)(9) added
53372
3560 Notification
74502, 75457
3560.8 Amended
11279
3560.11 Amended
11279
3560.65 (d) added
11280
3560.72 (b) amended
11280
3560.102 (b), (i), and (j) revised; (g)(1)(ii) and (iii) amended; (g)(1)(iv) added
11280
3560.104 (b)(1) revised
11281
3560.105 (c)(4) and (f)(10) revised
11281
3560.152 (c) heading, introductory text, (1) introductory text, and (e)(2)(iv) revised
11281
3560.154 (a)(9) introductory text and (j) revised
11281
3560.156 (c)(1), (15), and (16) revised; (c)(6)(iii) and (iv) amended; (c)(6)(v) added
11282
3560.158 (d)(3) introductory text revised
11282
3560.159 (c) revised
11282
3560.205 (e) revised
11282
3560.207 (b) revised
11282
3560.252 (b)(2) through (4) redesignated as (b)(3) through (5); new (b)(2) added; (c)(2) introductory text revised
11283
3560.254 (c)(1), (2), (4), and (5) revised; (c)(6) added
11283
3560.258 Revised
11283
3560.259 (a)(3) and (4) revised; (d) added
11283
3560.302 (c)(3)(ii), (iii), (5)(i), (ii), and (iv) revised
11283
3560.303 Revised
11283
3560.306 (a), (b), (d), and (e)(2) revised; (g)(2) through (5) and (j)(2) redesignated as (g)(3) through (6) and (j)(3); new (g)(2) and new (j)(2) added
11285
3560.402 (b) revised
11286
3560.576 (e) amended
11286
3560.656 (a) introductory text amended
11286
3570.53 Amended
38644
Chapter XLII
4274.302 Amended
38644
4274.333 (b)(4)(iii) correctly revised
18967
4279.108 (c)(1) revised
38644
4279.202 Amended
38644
4280.3 Amended
38644
4280.101—4280.166 (Subpart B) Regulation at 86 FR 22309 confirmed
10938
4280.103 Amended
38644
4280.302 (a) amended
38644
4284.3 Amended
38644
4287.107 (d) revised
58021
4287.112 (b) revised
58021
4287.113 (a) and (c) introductory text revised
58021
4288.2 Amended
38645
4290.50 Amended
38645
Chapter L
5001 Policy statement
24857
5001.3 Regulation at 86 FR 70354 eff. date confirmed
24857
Amended
38645
5001.8 Regulation at 86 FR 70355 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.104 Regulation at 86 FR 70355 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.105 Regulation at 86 FR 70355 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.115 Regulation at 86 FR 70356 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.121 Regulation at 86 FR 70356 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.126 Regulation at 86 FR 70356 eff. date confirmed
24857
(e) introductory text correctly revised
42297
5001.130 Regulation at 86 FR 70356 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.141 (a)(2) revised
7367
Regulation at 86 FR 70356 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.202 (b)(5) revised
7367
Regulation at 86 FR 70356 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.204 (b) revised
7368
Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.205 Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.303 Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.304 Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.318 Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.401 Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.402 Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.408 Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.451 Second (b)(3)(xiii) and (xiv) redesignated as new (b)(3)(xiv) and (xv)
7368
Regulation at 86 FR 70358 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.452 (b)(i)(iii)(L)(
3
) correctly removed
7367
Regulation at 86 FR 70358 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.454 Regulation at 86 FR 70357 eff. date confirmed
24857
5001.513 Regulation at 86 FR 70358 eff. date confirmed
24857
2023
7 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XXXIV
3434 Appendix B revised
71276
Chapter XXXV
3550 Notification
45809
3550 Technical correction
60883
3550 Waiver
85470
3555 Notification
48031
3565 Notification
26221, 46047
Chapter XLII
Chapter XLII Heading revised; eff. 1-16-24
86570
4279 Authority citation revised
82228
4279.190 (a), (c)(1) through (3), (5), (d)(1) through (3), (h), (k)(1) through (3), and (m)(4) revised; (m) introductory text added
82228
Regulation at 89 FR 82228 stayed from 12-14-23 until 2-12-24
86566
4280 Authority citation revised; eff. 1-16-24
86570
4280.403 Amended; eff. 1-16-24
86570
4280.500 Revised; eff. 1-16-24
86570
2024
7 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle A
Chapter XXXII
3201 Removed; eff. 1-8-25
97465
3202 Removed; eff. 1-8-25
97465
Chapter XXXIV
3434 Appendix B revised
81293
Chapter XXXV
3550 Waiver
48499, 52355, 82484, 95079
3555 Notification
59823
3555 Waiver
82484
3555.303 Revised; eff. 2-11-25
66193
3555.304 Revised; eff. 2-11-25
66194
3560 Notification
96860
3560.11 Amended; eff. 1-30-25
106980
3560.56 (d)(5) revised; eff. 1-30-25
106980
3560.60 (e) added; eff. 1-21-25
103630
3560.103 (a)(3)(xx) revised; eff. 1-21-25
103631
3560.156 (c)(18)(xvi) revised
20543
3560.159 (a)(3) added
20543
3560.160 (c) revised
20543
3560.306 (d)(2) revised
19228
3560.308 (a)(2) and (3) revised
96859
3560.405 (b)(4) added; eff. 1-30-25
106980
3560.406 (c)(6) added; eff. 1-30-25
106980
3560.566 (c) revised; (d) added
85037
3560.566 Regulation at 89 FR 85037 eff. date delayed to 11-25-24
90221
3560.851—3560.852 (Subpart R) Added; eff. 1-30-25
106980
3565 Notification
104031
3565.5 (b) revised
19499
3570.51 (j) revised
96860
3570.80 Revised
96860
3570.252 Amended
34958
3570.267 (b) introductory text revised
34958
Chapter XLII
4270 Added; eff. 1-8-25
97465
4274.352 (a)(4)(i) revised
34958
4279.161 Introductory text revised
34958
4279.261 (i) revised
34959
4280.416 (c)(3) revised
34959
4284 Authority citation revised
75771
4284.1—4284.100 (Subpart A) Removed
75771
4284.1—4284.100 (Subpart A) Regulation at 89 FR 75771 confirmed
89917
4284.501—4284.600 (Subpart F) Revised
75771
4284.501—4284.600 (Subpart F) Regulation at 89 FR 75771 confirmed
89917
4284.901—4284.1000 (Subpart J) Revised
75778
4284.901—4284.1000 (Subpart J) Regulation at 89 FR 75778 confirmed
89917
4284.1001—4284.1100 (Subpart K) Revised
75789
4284.1001—4284.1100 (Subpart K) Regulation at 89 FR 75789 confirmed
89917
4288.20 (b) introductory text revised
34959
Chapter L
5001.1 (b) revised
79704
5001.2 (b) and (d) revised
79704
5001.3 Amended
79704
Correction: Amended
97477
5001.6 (b) revised
79708
5001.7 Revised
79708
5001.8 (e) introductory text and (1) revised
79708
5001.9 Revised
79708
5001.101 (a) and (b) revised; (f) added
79709
5001.102 (d) revised
79709
5001.103 (a)(1), (3), and (b)(1) revised; (d) and (e) added
79709
5001.104 Introductory text, (a), and (d)(1) revised
79710
5001.105 (b)(7), (10), (14), (15)(i)(D), (18)(i), (ii) introductory text, (20), (22)(vii), (d) introductory text, and (1)(iii) revised
79710
5001.106 Introductory text, (d)(2), (e)(2), and (3) introductory text revised
79711
Correction: Introductory text amended; (c), (d)(2), (e)(2), and (3) introductory text revised
97477
5001.107 (a) revised
79711
5001.108 Introductory text revised
79712
5001.115 (l), (n), and (r) revised
79712
5001.116 (b) and (e) revised
79712
5001.121 Introductory text, (a)(2), (3)(iv), (b), (c)(6), (d) introductory text, and (14) introductory text revised
79712
5001.122 Introductory text, (a), (k), and (l) revised; (n) added
79713
5001.126 Introductory text, (a) introductory text, (1), (b)(2)(i), (c)(2), (d)(3) introductory text, (iii), (4), (e)(1), and (2) revised
79714
5001.127 (a) introductory text, (3), (4), (d), and (f) revised
79715
5001.130 (a)(3) through (6) redesignated as (a)(4) through (7); new (a)(3), (c)(4)(v), and (d)(4)(v) added; (c)(1)(iii), (2) introductory text, (viii)(H), (4) introductory text, (iv), (d)(2) introductory text, (4) introductory text, and (iv) revised
79715
5001.131 Revised
79716
5001.132 (a)(3), (4), (b) introductory text, (14), and (c) revised
79716
5001.140 (a)(4), (b) introductory text, and (d)(3) revised
79716
5001.141 Heading, introductory text, (b)(1)(iii), (4), (6), and (8) revised; (b)(14) added
79716
5001.202 Introductory text, (a), (b)(5) introductory text, (6)(iii), (iv), and (vi) revised
79717
5001.203 Introductory text, (b), (c), (d)(1), (f), and (h) revised
79718
5001.204 (b)(2) and (3) revised
79718
5001.205 (a), (b)(1), (e)(1), (2)(iii), (iv), (vii), and (f)(1)(i) revised
79718
5001.206 (b) revised
79719
5001.207 (a)(1) and (b)(2) revised
79720
5001.301 Revised
79720
5001.303 (c)(15) and (d) revised
79720
5001.304 Introductory text and (a)(4) introductory text revised
79720
5001.305 (a)(2) revised; (d) added
79720
5001.306 (a)(3) introductory text and (b) introductory text revised
79721
5001.307 (a)(1), (2), (b) introductory text, (e) introductory text, (1)(ii), (v) introductory text, (A)(
2
), (
3
), (C)(
2
), and (
3
) revised
79721
5001.315 (a) introductory text, (b) introductory text, (c)(1), (2), (d)(4), and (e)(2) revised
79721
5001.316 (e) heading added; (e)(2) revised
79722
5001.318 (b) introductory text revised
79722
5001.319 Introductory text, (a) introductory text, (b)(1)(i) introductory text, (2)(i) introductory text, (A), (ii), (iii) introductory text, (d) introductory text, (e), (f) introductory text, (1) introductory text, and (g)(6) introductory text revised
79722
5001.301—5001.400 (Subpart D) Appendix C revised
79723
5001.301—5001.400 (Subpart D) Appendix D and Appendix E revised
79724
5001.401 Introductory text and (c) revised
79725
5001.402 (b)(2) revised
79725
5001.403 (b) revised
79725
5001.406 (c) and (d) introductory text revised
79726
5001.408 (a)(5) and (e)(1) revised
79726
5001.450 (b)(1), (c)(1) introductory text, (iii), and (2) revised
79726
5001.452 (a), (b)(8)(iii)(U), and (c) revised; (b)(8)(iii)(W) and (X) added
79726
5001.454 Introductory text, (b) introductory text, (d)(4), and (5) revised
79726
5001.457 (b)(1)(ii) revised
79727
5001.459 (b)(1) revised
79727
5001.502 (d) revised
79727
5001.505 (a), (b)(3) introductory text, (iii) revised
79727
5001.504 (c) revised
96860
5001.506 (e) and (k) revised
79727
5001.507 (a)(3) and (d) revised
79727
5001.510 (b)(3) revised
79727
5001.511 (b) introductory text, (c)(9), and (10) revised
79728
5001.516 (c) and (d) revised
79728
(c) correctly revised
97477
5001.517 (c)(1), (2), (6)(i), (10), (11), (d), (e)(1)(i), and (f)(2) revised
79728
5001.519 (d)(2)(i) revised
79728
5001.521 (d)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4), and (8)(iii) revised
79729
○
