(ii) A grant, loan, or benefit from, the Authority, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States Government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit.
§ 105-70.003
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
(a)
Claims.
(1) Any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know—
(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(ii) Includes or is supported by any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that—
(A) Omits a material fact;
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and
(C) Is a statement in which the person making such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or
(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $13,700 for each such claim.
(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
(3) A claim shall be considered made to the Authority, recipient, or party when such claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the Authority, recipient, or party.
(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.
(5) If the Government has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim.
(b)
Statements.
(1) Any person who makes a written statement that—
(i) The person knows or has reason to know—
(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such statement; and
(ii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $13,700 for each such statement.
(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.
(3) A statement shall be considered made to the Authority when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the Authority.
(c) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
(d) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.
(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.
(f) For violations occurring on or after January 1, 2025, the maximum penalty, which may be assessed under paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section, is the larger of:
(1) The amount for the previous calendar year, or
(2) An amount adjusted for inflation, calculated by multiplying the amount for the previous calendar year by the percentage by which the CPI-U for the month of October preceding the current calendar year exceeds the CPI-U for the month of October of the calendar year two years prior to the current calendar year, adding that amount
to the amount for the previous calendar year, and rounding the total to the nearest hundred dollar increment.
(g) Notice of the maximum penalty which may be assessed under paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section for calendar year 2026 and thereafter will be published by GSA in the
Federal Register
on an annual basis on or before January 15 of each calendar year.
[52 FR 45188, Nov. 25, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 67235, Dec. 20, 1996; 82 FR 40958, Aug. 29, 2017; 83 FR 1304, Jan. 11, 2018; 84 FR 53065, Oct. 4, 2019; 86 FR 21949, Apr. 26, 2021; 87 FR 2350, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2248, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1833, Jan. 11, 2024; 89 FR 103663, Dec. 19, 2024]
§ 105-70.004
Investigation.
(a) If an investigating official concludes that a subpoena pursuant to the authority conferred by 31 U.S.C. 3804(a) is warranted—
(1) The subpoena so issued shall notify the person to whom it is addressed of the authority under which the subpoena is issued and shall identify the records or documents sought;
(2) The investigating official may designate a person to act on his or her behalf to receive the documents sought; and
(3) The person receiving such subpoena shall be required to tender to the investigating official or the person designated to receive the documents a certification that the documents sought have been produced, or that such documents are not available and the reasons therefor, or that such documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified privilege, or any combination of the foregoing.
(b) If the investigating official concludes that an action under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act may be warranted, the investigating official shall submit a report containing the findings and conclusions of such investigation to the reviewing official.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit an investigating official's discretion to refer allegations directly to the Department of Justice for suit under the False Claims Act or other civil relief, or to defer or postpone a report or referral to the reviewing official to avoid interference with a criminal investigation or prosecution.
(d) Nothing in this section modifies any responsibility of an investigating official to report violations of criminal law to the Attorney General.
§ 105-70.005
Review by the reviewing official.
(a) If, based on the report of the investigating official under § 105-70.004(b), the reviewing official determines that there is adequate evidence to believe that a person is liable under § 105-70.003 of this part, the reviewing official shall transmit to the Attorney General a written notice of the reviewing official's intention to issue a complaint under § 105-70.007.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) A statement of the reviewing official's reasons for issuing a complaint;
(2) A statement specifying the evidence that supports the allegations of liability;
(3) A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based;
(4) An estimate of the amount of money or the value of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in violation of § 105-70.003 of this part;
(5) A statement of any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
(6) A statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments.
§ 105-70.006
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
(a) The reviewing official may issue a complaint under § 105-70.007 only if—
(1) The Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in a written statement described in 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), and
(2) In the case of allegations of liability under § 105-70.003(a) with respect to a claim, the reviewing official determines that, with respect to such claim or a group of related claims submitted at the same time such claim is submitted (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), the amount of money or
the value of property or services demanded or requested in violation of § 105-70.003(a) does not exceed $150,000.
(b) For the purposes of this section, a related group of claims submitted at the same time shall include only those claims arising from the same transaction (e.g., grant, loan, application, or contract) that are submitted simultaneously as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the reviewing official's authority to join in a single complaint against a person claims that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested.
§ 105-70.007
Complaint.
(a) On or after the date the Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), the reviewing official may serve a complaint on the defendant, as provided in § 105-70.008.
(b) The complaint shall state—
(1) The allegations of liability against the defendant, including the statutory basis for liability, an identification of the claims or statements that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons why liability allegedly arises from such claims or statements;
(2) The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which the defendant may be held liable;
(3) Instructions for filing an answer including a specific statement of the defendant's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to be represented by a representative; and
(4) That failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in the imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessments without right to appeal, as provided in § 105-70.010.
(c) At the same time the reviewing official serves the complaint, he or she shall serve the defendant with a copy of these regulations.
§ 105-70.008
Service of complaint.
(a) Service of a complaint must be made by certified or registered mail or by delivery in any manner authorized by Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Service is complete upon receipt.
(b) Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service, may be made by—
(1) Affidavit of the individual serving the complaint by delivery;
(2) A United States Postal Service return receipt card acknowledging receipt; or
(3) Written acknowledgment of receipt by the defendant or his representative.
§ 105-70.009
Answer.
(a) The defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer with the reviewing official within 30 days of service of the complaint. An answer shall be deemed to be a request for hearing.
(b) In the answer, the defendant—
(1) Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint;
(2) Shall state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
(3) May state any reasons why the defendant contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the statutory maximum; and
(4) Shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized by the defendant to act as defendant's representative, if any.
(c) If the defendant is unable to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within the time provided, the defendant may, before the expiration of 30 days from service of the complaint, file with the reviewing official a general answer denying liability and requesting a hearing, and a request for an extension of time within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The reviewing official shall file promptly with the ALJ the complaint, the general answer denying liability, and the request for an extension of time as provided in § 105-70.011. For good cause shown, the ALJ may grant the defendant up to 30 additional days within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 105-70.010
Default upon failure to file an answer.
(a) If the defendant does not file an answer within the time prescribed in § 105-70.009(a), the reviewing official may refer the complaint to the ALJ.
(b) Upon the referral of the complaint, the ALJ shall promptly serve on the defendant in the manner prescribed in § 105-70.008, a notice that an initial decision will be issued under this section.
(c) The ALJ shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true, and, if such facts establish liability under § 105-70.003, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer, the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (c) of this section, and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
(e) If, before such an initial decision becomes final, the defendant files a motion with the ALJ seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the defendant from filing an answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending the ALJ's decision on the motion.
(f) If, on such motion, the defendant can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ shall withdraw the initial decision in paragraph (c) of this section, if such a decision has been issued, and shall grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
(g) A decision of the ALJ denying a defendant's motion under paragraph (e) of this section is not subject to reconsideration under § 105-70.038.
(h) The defendant may appeal to the Authority Head the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal with the Authority Head within 15 days after the ALJ denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the initial decision until the Authority Head decides the issue.
(i) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the Authority Head, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Authority Head.
(j) The Authority Head shall decide expeditiously whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer based solely on the record before the ALJ.
(k) If the Authority Head decides that extraordinary circumstances excused the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the Authority Head shall remand the case to the ALJ with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to answer.
(l) If the Authority Head decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the Authority Head shall reinstate the initial decision of the ALJ, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the Authority Head issues such decision.
§ 105-70.011
Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.
Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the ALJ.
§ 105-70.012
Notice of hearing.
(a) When the ALJ receives the complaint and answer, the ALJ shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant in the manner prescribed by § 105-70.008. At the same time, the ALJ shall send a copy of such notice to the representative for the Government.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The matters of fact and law to be asserted;
(4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the Government and of the defendant, if any; and
(6) Such other matters as the ALJ deems appropriate.
§ 105-70.013
Parties to the hearing.
(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and the Authority.
(b) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff under the False Claims Act may participate in these proceedings to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act.
§ 105-70.014
Separation of functions.
(a) The investigating official, the reviewing official, and any employee or agent of the Authority who takes part in investigating, preparing, or presenting a particular case may not, in such case or a factually related case—
(1) Participate in the hearing as the ALJ;
(2) Participate or advise in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the Authority Head, except as a witness or a representative in public proceedings; or
(3) Make the collection of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(b) The ALJ shall not be responsible to, or subject to the supervision or direction of the investigating official or the reviewing official.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the representative for the Government may be employed anywhere in the Authority, including in the offices of either the investigating official or the reviewing official.
§ 105-70.015
Ex parte contacts.
No party or person (except employees of the ALJ's office) shall communicate in any way with the ALJ on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
§ 105-70.016
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
(a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
(b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or an ALJ. Such motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.
(c) Such motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections shall be deemed waived.
(d) Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.
(e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the ALJ shall proceed not further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)(1) If the ALJ determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another ALJ.
(3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the authority head may determine the matter only as part of his or her review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
§ 105-70.017
Rights of parties.
Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may—
(a) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by a representative;
(b) Participate in any conference held by the ALJ;
(c) Conduct discovery;
(d) Agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(e) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(f) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(g) Present oral argument at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and
(h) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.
§ 105-70.018
Authority of the ALJ.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The ALJ has the authority to—
(1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at depositions or at hearings;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(13) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
(14) Exercise such other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibility of the ALJ under this part.
(c) The ALJ does not have the authority to find Federal statutes or regulations invalid.
§ 105-70.019
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The ALJ may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
(b) Upon the motion of any party, the ALJ shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
(c) The ALJ may use prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations and admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objection of other parties) and written argument;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery;
(9) The time and place for the hearing; and
(10) Such other matters as may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
(d) The ALJ may issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the ALJ at a prehearing conference.
§ 105-70.020
Disclosure of documents.
(a) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of the investigating official under § 105-70.004(b) are based, unless such documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. Upon payment of fees for duplication, the defendant may obtain copies of such documents.
(b) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant also may obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint, even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed.
(c) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official as
described in § 105-70.005 is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(d) The defendant may file a motion to compel disclosure of the documents subject to the provisions of this section. Such a motion may only be filed with the ALJ following the filing of an answer pursuant to § 105-70.009.
§ 105-70.021
Discovery.
(a) The following types of discovery are authorized:
(1) Requests for production of documents for inspection and copying;
(2) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or of the truth of any relevant fact;
(3) Written interrogatories; and
(4) Depositions.
(b) For the purpose of this section and §§ 105-70.022 and 105-70.023, the term “documents” includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document.
(c) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ shall regulate the timing of discovery.
(d)
Motions for discovery.
(1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the ALJ. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition.
(2) Within ten days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided in § 105-70.024.
(3) The ALJ may grant a motion for discovery only if he finds that the discovery sought—
(i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues;
(ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;
(iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and
(iv) Does not seek privileged information.
(4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery;
(5) The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 105-70.024.
(e)
Depositions.
(1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held.
(2) The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in § 105-70.008.
(3) The deponent may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order within ten days of service.
(4) The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it shall make available to all other parties for inspection and copying.
(f) Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery.
§ 105-70.022
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
(a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the ALJ, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with § 105-70.033(b). At the time the above documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the ALJ, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
(b) If a party objects, the ALJ shall not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above unless the ALJ finds good cause for the failure or that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless another party objects within the time set by the ALJ, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
§ 105-70.023
Subpoena for attendance at hearing.
(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in § 105-70.008. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.
(f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within ten days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten days after service.
§ 105-70.024
Protective order.
(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the ALJ;
(6) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
(7) That a deposition after being sealed be opened only by order of the ALJ;
(8) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation, proceeding, or other administrative investigation not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; or
(9) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the ALJ.
§ 105-70.025
Fees.
The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the Authority, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.
§ 105-70.026
Form, filing and service of papers.
(a)
Form.
(1) Documents filed with the ALJ shall include an original and two copies.
(2) Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the ALJ, and a designation of the paper (e.g., motion to quash subpoena).
(3) Every pleading and paper shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of the party or the person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or his or her representative.
(4) Papers are considered filed when they are mailed. Date of mailing may
be established by a certificate from the party or its representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.
(b)
Service.
A party filing a document with the ALJ shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than those required to be served as prescribed in § 105-70.008 shall be made by delivering a copy or by placing a copy of the document in the United States mail, postage prepaid and addressed to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by a representative, service shall be made upon such representative in lieu of the actual party.
(c)
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.
§ 105-70.027
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal government, in which event it includes the next business day.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal government shall be excluded from the computation.
(c) Where a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional five days will be added to the time permitted for any response.
§ 105-70.028
Motions.
(a) Any application to the ALJ for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the ALJ and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The ALJ may require that oral motions be reduced to writing.
(c) Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the ALJ, any party may file a response to such motion.
(d) The ALJ may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.
(e) The ALJ shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.
§ 105-70.029
Sanctions.
(a) The ALJ may sanction a person, including any party or representative for—
(1) Failing to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the ALJ may—
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;
(3) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d) If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the ALJ may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
(e) The ALJ may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief or other document which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 105-70.030
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 105-70.003 and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
(b) The authority shall prove defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The defendant shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause shown.
§ 105-70.031
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the ALJ and the Authority Head, upon appeal, should evaluate any circumstances presented that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose.
§ 105-70.032
Location of hearing.
(a) The hearing may be held—
(1) In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;
(2) In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement in issue was made; or
(3) In such other place as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the ALJ.
(b) Each party shall have the opportunity to present arguments with respect to the location of the hearing.
(c) The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the ALJ.
§ 105-70.033
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. Any such written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in § 105-70.022(a).
(c) The ALJ shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to—
(1) Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth,
(2) Avoid needless consumption of time, and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The ALJ shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(e) To the extent permitted by the ALJ, cross-examination on matters outside the scope of direct examination shall be conducted in the manner of direct examination and may proceed by leading questions only if the witness is a hostile witness, an adverse party, or a witness identified with an adverse party.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the ALJ shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of—
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party appearing for the entity
pro se
or designated by the party's representative; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an
individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.
§ 105-70.034
Evidence.
(a) The ALJ shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided in this part, the ALJ shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the ALJ may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate, e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.
(c) The ALJ shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.
(f) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(g) The ALJ shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 105-70.024.
§ 105-70.035
The record.
(a) The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the ALJ at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
(b) The transcript of testimony, exhibits and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the ALJ and the Authority Head.
(c) The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 105-70.024.
§ 105-70.036
Post-hearing briefs.
The ALJ may require the parties to file post-hearing briefs. In any event, any party may file a post-hearing brief. The ALJ shall fix the time for filing such briefs, not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The ALJ may permit the parties to file reply briefs.
§ 105-70.037
Initial decision.
(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision based only on the record, which shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portions thereof, violate § 105-70.003.
(2) If the person is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments considering any mitigating or aggravating factors that he or she finds in the case.
(c) The ALJ shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired. The ALJ shall at the same time serve all parties with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the ALJ or a notice of appeal with the Authority Head. If the ALJ fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(d) Unless the initial decision of the ALJ is timely appealed to the Authority Head, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Authority Head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the ALJ.
§ 105-70.038
Reconsideration of initial decision.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a
motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be five days from the date of mailing in the absence of contrary proof.
(b) Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.
(c) Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the ALJ.
(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.
(e) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
(f) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Authority Head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the Authority Head in accordance with § 105-70.039.
(g) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final decision of the Authority Head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the Authority Head in accordance with § 105-70.039.
§ 105-70.039
Appeal to Authority Head.
(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the Authority Head by filing a notice of appeal with the Authority Head in accordance with this section.
(b)(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the ALJ issues an initial decision. However, if another party files a motion for reconsideration under § 105-70.038, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration.
(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.
(3) The Authority Head may extend the initial 30 day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the Authority Head a request for an extension within the initial 30 day period and shows good cause.
(c) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the Authority Head and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under § 105-70.038 has expired, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Authority Head.
(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.
(e) The representative for the Authority may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.
(f) There is no right to appear personally before the Authority Head.
(g) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.
(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the Authority Head shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the ALJ unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Authority Head that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the Authority Head shall remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of such additional evidence.
(j) The Authority Head may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment, determined by the ALJ in any initial decision.
(k) The Authority Head shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the Authority Head and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable for a penalty or assessment to seek judicial review.
(l) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805 after
a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the Authority Head serves the defendant with a copy of the Authority Head's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under § 105-70.003 is final and is not subject to judicial review.
§ 105-70.040
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
If at any time the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the Authority Head a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this part with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, the Authority Head shall stay the process immediately. The Authority Head may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.
§ 105-70.041
Stay pending appeal.
(a) An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the Authority Head.
(b) No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the Authority Head.
§ 105-70.042
Judicial review.
Section 3805 of title 31, United States Code, authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the Authority Head imposing penalties or assessments under this part and specifies the procedures for such review.
§ 105-70.043
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
Sections 3806 and 3808(b) of title 31, United States Code, authorize action for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for such actions.
§ 105-70.044
Right to administrative offset.
The amount of any penalty or assessment which has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under § 105-70.042 or § 105-70.043, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under § 105-70.046, may be collected by administrative offset under 30 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under this subsection against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes, then or later owing by the United States to the defendant.
§ 105-70.045
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(g).
§ 105-70.046
Compromise or settlement.
(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.
(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision.
(c) The Authority Head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under § 105-70.042 or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties and assessments under § 105-70.043.
(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under § 105-70.042 or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the Authority Head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the Authority Head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.
(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
§ 105-70.047
Limitations.
(a) The Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986 provides that a hearing shall be commenced within 6 years after the date on which a claim or statement is made. 31 U.S.C. 3808(a). The statute also provides that the hearing is commenced by the mailing or delivery of the presiding officer's (ALJ's) notice. 31 U.S.C. 3803(d)(2)(B). Accordingly, the notice of hearing provided for in § 105-70.012 herein shall be served within 6 years after the date on which a claim or statement is made.
(b) If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, service of a notice under § 105-70.010(b) shall be deemed a notice of hearing for purposes of this section.
Pt. 105-71

# PART 105-71—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS

# Subpart 105-71.1—General
Sec.
105-71.100
Purpose and scope of this part.
105-71.101
Scope of §§ 105-71.100 through 105-71.105.
105-71.102
Definitions.
105-71.103
Applicability.
105-71.104
Effect on other issuances.
105-71.105
Additions and exceptions.

# Subpart 105-71.11—Pre-Award Requirements
105-71.110
Forms for applying for grants.
105-71.111
State plans.
105-71.112
Special grant or subgrant conditions for “high-risk” grantees.

# Subpart 105-71.12—Post-Award Requirements/Financial Administration
105-71.120
Standards for financial management systems.
105-71.121
Payment.
105-71.122
Allowable costs.
105-71.123
Period of availability of funds.
105-71.124
Matching or cost sharing.
105-71.125
Program income.
105-71.126
Non-Federal audit.

# Subpart 105-71.13—Post-Award Requirements/Changes, Property, and Subawards
105-71.130
Changes.
105-71.131
Real property.
105-71.132
Equipment.
105-71.133
Supplies.
105-71.134
Copyrights.
105-71.135
Subawards to debarred and suspended parties.
105-71.136
Procurement.
105-71.137
Subgrants.

# Subpart 105-71.14—Post-Award Requirements/Reports, Records, Retention, and Enforcement
105-71.140
Monitoring and reporting program performance.
105-71.141
Financial reporting.
105-71.142
Retention and access requirements for records.
105-71.143
Enforcement.
105-71.144
Termination for convenience.

# Subpart 105-71.15—After-the-Grant Requirements
105-71.150
Closeout.
105-71.151
Later disallowances and adjustments.
105-71.152
Collection of amounts due.
Subpart 105-71.16—Entitlements [Reserved]

# Authority:
Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 390, (40 U.S.C. 486(c)).

# Source:
58 FR 43270, Aug. 16, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 105-71.1—General
§ 105-71.100
Purpose and scope of this part.
This part establishes uniform administrative rules for Federal grants and cooperative agreements and subawards to State, local and Indian tribal governments.
§ 105-71.101
Scope of §§ 105-71.100 through 105-71.105.
This section contains general rules pertaining to this part and procedures for control of exceptions from this subpart.
§ 105-71.102
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Accrued expenditures
mean the charges incurred by the grantee during a given period requiring the provision of funds for: (1) Goods and other tangible property received; (2) services performed by employees, contractors, subgrantees, subcontractors, and other
payees; and (3) other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance is required, such as annuities, insurance claims, and other benefit payments.
Accrued income
means the sum of: (1) Earnings during a given period from services performed by the grantee and goods and other tangible property delivered to purchasers, and (2) amounts becoming owed to the grantee for which no current services or performance is required by the grantee.
Acquisition cost
of an item of purchased equipment means the net invoice unit price of the property including the cost of modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make the property usable for the purpose for which it was acquired. Other charges such as the cost of installation, transportation, taxes, duty or protective in-transit insurance, shall be included or excluded from the unit acquisition cost in accordance with the grantee's regular accounting practices.
Administrative
requirements mean those matters common to grants in general, such as financial management, kinds and frequency of reports, and retention of records. These are distinguished from
programmatic
requirements, which concern matters that can be treated only on a program-by-program or grant-by-grant basis, such as kinds of activities that can be supported by grants under a particular program.
Awarding agency
means (1) with respect to a grant, the Federal agency, and (2) with respect to a subgrant, the party that awarded the subgrant.
Cash contributions
means the grantee's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the grantee or subgrantee by other public agencies and institutions, and private organizations and individuals. When authorized by Federal legislation, Federal funds received from other assistance agreements may be considered as grantee or subgrantee cash constributions.
Contract
means (except as used in the definitions for
grant
and
subgrant
in this section and except where qualified by
Federal
) a procurement contract under a grant or subgrant, and means a procurement subcontract under a contract.
Cost sharing or matching
means the value of the third party in-kind contributions and the portion of the costs of a federally assisted project or program not borne by the Federal Government.
Cost-type contract
means a contract or subcontract under a grant in which the contractor or subcontractor is paid on the basis of the costs it incurs, with or without a fee.
Equipment
means tangible, nonexpendable, personal property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. A grantee may use its own definition of equipment provided that such definition would at least include all equipment defined above.
Expenditure report
means: (1) For non-construction grants, the SF-269 “Financial Status Report” (or other equivalent report); (2) for construction grants, the SF-271 “Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement” (or other equivalent report).
Federally recognized Indian tribal government
means the governing body or a governmental agency of any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community (including any Native village as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 85 Stat. 688) certified by the Secretary of the Interior as eligible for the special programs and services provided by him through the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Government
means a State or local government or a federally recognized Indian tribal government.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance, including cooperative agreements, in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government to an eligible grantee. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct appropriations. Also, the term does not include assistance, such as a fellowship or other lump sum award, which the grantee is not required to account for.
Grantee
means the government to which a grant is awarded and which is accountable for the use of the funds provided. The grantee is the entire legal entity even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the grant award document.
Local government
means a county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority (including any public and Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937) school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments (whether or not incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under State law), any other regional or interstate government entity, or any agency or instrumentality of a local government.
Obligations
means the amounts of orders placed, contracts and subgrants awarded, goods and services received, and similar transactions during a given period that will require payment by the grantee during the same or a future period.
OMB
means the United States Office of Management and Budget.
Outlays
(expenditures) mean charges made to the project or program. They may be reported on a cash or accrual basis. For reports prepared on a cash basis, outlays are the sum of actual cash disbursement for direct charges for goods and services, the amount of indirect expense incurred, the value of in-kind contributions applied, and the amount of cash advances and payments made to contractors and subgrantees. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, outlays are the sum of actual cash disbursements, the amount of indirect expense incurred, the value of in-kind contributions applied, and the new increase (or decrease) in the amounts owed by the grantee for goods and other property received, for services performed by employees, contractors, subgrantees, subcontractors, and other payees, and other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance are required, such as annuities, insurance claims, and other benefit payments.
Percentage of completion method
refers to a system under which payments are made for construction work according to the percentage of completion of work, rather than to the grantee's cost incurred.
Prior approval
means documentation evidencing consent prior to incurring specific cost.
Real property
means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, excluding movable machinery and equipment.
Share,
when referring to the awarding agency's portion of real property, equipment or supplies, means the same percentage as the awarding agency's portion of the acquiring party's total costs under the grant to which the acquisition costs under the grant to which the acquisition cost of the property was charged. Only costs are to be counted—not the value of the third-party in-kind contributions.
State
means any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a State exclusive of local governments. The term does not include any public and Indian housing under United States Housing Act of 1937.
Subgrant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under a grant by a grantee to an eligible subgrantee. The term includes financial assistance when provided by contractual legal agreement, but does not include procurement purchases, nor does it include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of grant in this part.
Subgrantee
means the government or other legal entity to which a subgrant is awarded and which is accountable to the grantee for the use of the funds provided.
Supplies
means all tangible personal property other than equipment as defined in this part.
Suspension
means depending on the context, either (1) temporary withdrawal of the authority to obligate grant funds pending corrective action by the grantee or subgrantee or a decision to terminate the grant, or (2) an action taken by a suspending official in accordance with agency regulations
implementing E.O. 12549 to immediately exclude a person from participating in grant transactions for a period, pending completion of an investigation and such legal or debarment proceedings as may ensue.
Termination
means permanent withdrawal of the authority to obligate previously-awarded grant funds before that authority would otherwise expire. It also means the voluntary relinquishment of that authority by the grantee or subgrantee.
Termination
does not include: (1) Withdrawal of funds awarded on the basis of the grantee's underestimate of the unobligated balance in a prior period; (2) Withdrawal of the unobligated balance as of the expiration of a grant; (3) Refusal to extend a grant or award additional funds, to make a competing or noncompeting continuation, renewal, extension, or supplemental award; or (4) voiding of a grant upon determination that the award was obtained fraudulently, or was otherwise illegal or invalid from inception.
Terms of a grant or subgrant
mean all requirements of the grant or subgrant whether in statute, regulations, or the award document.
Third party in-kind contributions
mean property or services which benefit a federally assisted project or program and which are contributed by non-Federal third parties without charge to the grantee, or a cost-type contractor under the grant agreement.
Unliquidated obligations
for reports prepared on a cash basis mean the amount of obligations incurred by the grantee that has not been paid. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, they represent the amount of obligations incurred by the grantee for which an outlay has not been recorded.
Unobligated balance
means the portion of the funds authorized by the Federal agency that has not been obligated by the grantee and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized.
§ 105-71.103
Applicability.
(a)
General.
Sections 105-71.100 through 105-71.152 of this subpart apply to all grants and subgrants to governments, except where inconsistent with Federal statutes or with regulations authorized in accordance with the exception provision of § 105-71.105 or:
(1) Grants and subgrants to State and local institutions of higher education or State and local hospitals.
(2) The block grants authorized by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (Community Services; Preventive Health and Health Services; Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Services; Maternal and Child Health Services; Social Services; Low-Income Home Energy Assistance; States' Program of Community Development Block Grants for Small Cities; and Elementary and Secondary Education other than programs administered by the Secretary of Education under Title V, subtitle D, chapter 2, section 583—the Secretary's discretionary grant program) and Titles I-III of the Job Training Partnership Act of 1982 and under the Public Health Services Act (section 1921), Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment and Rehabilitation Block Grant and part C of Title V. Mental Health Service for the Homeless Block Grant).
(3) Entitlement grants to carry out the following programs of the Social Security Act:
(i) Aid to Needy Families with Dependent Children (Title IV-A of the Act, not including the Work Incentive Program (WIN) authorized by section 402(a)19(G); HHS grants for WIN are subject to this part);
(ii) Child Support Enforcement and Establishment of Paternity (Title IV-D of the Act);
(iii) Foster Care and Adoption Assistance (Title IV-E of the Act);
(iv) Aid to the Aged, Blind, Disabled (Titles I, X, XIV, and XVI-AABD of the Act); and
(v) Medical Assistance (Medicaid) (Title XIX of the Act) not including the State Medical Fraud Control program authorized by section 1903(a)(6)(B).
(4) Entitlement grants under the following programs of The National School Lunch Act:
(i) School Lunch (section 4 of the Act);
(ii) Commodity Assistance (section 6 of the Act);
(iii) Special Meal Assistance (section 11 of the Act);
(iv) Summer Food Service for Children (section 13 of the Act); and
(v) Child Care Food Program (section 17 of the Act).
(5) Entitlement grants under the following programs of The Child Nutrition Act of 1966:
(i) Special Milk (section 3 of the Act), and
(ii) School Breakfast (section 4 of the Act).
(6) Entitlement grants for State Administrative expenses under The Food Stamp Act of 1977 (section 16 of the Act).
(7) A grant for an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project that is also supported by a grant listed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(8) Grant funds awarded under subsection 412(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1522(e)) and subsection 501(a) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-422, 94 Stat. 1809), for cash assistance, medical assistance, and supplemental security income benefits to refugees and entrants and the administrative costs of providing the assistance and benefits;
(9) Grants to local education agencies under 20 U.S.C. 236 through 241-1(a), and 242 through 244 (portions of the Impact Aid program), except for 20 U.S.C. 238(d)(2)(c) and 240(f) (Entitlement Increase for Handicapped Children); and
(10) Payments under the Veterans Administration's State Home Per Diem Program (38 U.S.C. 641(a)).
(b)
Entitlement programs.
Entitlement programs enumerated above in § 105-71.103(a)(3) through (8) are subject to Subpart—Entitlement.
§ 105-71.104
Effect on other issuances.
All other grants administration provisions of codified program regulations, program manuals, handbooks and other nonregulatory materials which are inconsistent with this part are superseded, except to the extent they are required by statute, or authorized in accordance with the exception provision in § 105-71.105.
§ 105-71.105
Additions and exceptions.
(a) For classes of grants and grantees subject to this part, Federal agencies may not impose additional administrative requirements except in codified regulations published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Exceptions for classes of grants or grantees may be authorized only by OMB.
(c) Exceptions on a case-by-case basis and for subgrantees may be authorized by the affected Federal agencies.

# Subpart 105-71.11—Pre-Award Requirements
§ 105-71.110
Forms for applying for grants.
(a)
Scope.
(1) This section prescribes forms and instructions to be used by governmental organizations (except hospitals and institutions of higher education operated by a government) in applying for grants. This section is not applicable, however, to formula grant programs which do not require applicants to apply for funds on a project basis.
(2) This section applies only to applications to Federal agencies for grants, and is not required to be applied by grantees in dealing with applicants for subgrants. However, grantees are encouraged to avoid more detailed or burdensome application requirements for subgrants.
(b)
Authorized forms and instructions for governmental organizations.
(1) In applying for grants, applicants shall only use standard application forms or those prescribed by the granting agency with the approval of OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980.
(2) Applicants are not required to submit more than the original and two copies of preapplications or applications.
(3) Applicants must follow all applicable instructions that bear OMB clearance numbers. Federal agencies may specify and describe the programs, functions, or activities that will be used to plan, budget, and evaluate the work under a grant. Other supplementary instructions may be issued only with the approval of OMB to the extent required under the Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1980. For any standard form, except the SF-424 facesheet, Federal agencies may shade out or instruct the applicant to disregard any line item that is not needed.
(4) When a grantee applies for additional funding (such as a continuation or supplemental award) or amends a previously submitted application, only the affected pages need be submitted. Previously submitted pages with information that is still current need not be resubmitted.
§ 105-71.111
State plans.
(a)
Scope.
The statutes for some programs require States to submit plans before receiving grants. Under regulations implementing Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,” States are allowed to simplify, consolidate and substitute plans. This section contains additional provisions for plans that are subject to regulations implementing the Executive order.
(b)
Requirements.
A State need meet only Federal administrative or programmatic requirements for a plan that are in statutes or codified regulations.
(c)
Assurances.
In each plan the State will include an assurance that the State shall comply with all applicable Federal statutes and regulations in effect with respect to the periods for which it receives grant funding. For this assurance and other assurances required in the plan, the State may:
(1) Cite by number the statutory or regulatory provisions requiring the assurances and affirm that it gives the assurances required by those provisions,
(2) Repeat the assurance language in the statutes or regulations, or
(3) Develop its own language to the extent permitted by law.
(d)
Amendments.
A State will amend a plan whenever necessary to reflect:
(1) New or revised Federal statutes or regulations or
(2) A material change in any State law, organization, policy, or State agency operation.
The State will obtain approval for the amendment and its effective date but need submit for approval only the amended portions of the plan.
§ 105-71.112
Special grant or subgrant conditions for “high-risk” grantees.
(a) A grantee or subgrantee may be considered “high risk” if an awarding agency determines that a grantee or subgrantee:
(1) Has a history of unsatisfactory performance, or
(2) Is not financially stable, or
(3) Has a management system which does not meet the management standards set forth in this part, or
(4) Has not conformed to terms and conditions of previous awards, or
(5) Is otherwise not responsible, and if the awarding agency determines that an award will be made, special conditions and/or restrictions shall correspond to the high risk condition and shall be included in the award.
(b) Special conditions or restrictions may include:
(1) Payment on a reimbursement basis;
(2) Withholding authority to proceed to the next phase until receipt of evidence of acceptable performance within a given funding period;
(3) Requiring additional, more detailed financial reports;
(4) Additional project monitoring;
(5) Requiring the grantee or subgrantee to obtain technical or management assistance; or
(6) Establishing additional prior approvals.
(c) If an awarding agency decides to impose such conditions, the awarding official will notify the grantee or subgrantee as early as possible, in writing, of:
(1) The nature of the special conditions/restrictions;
(2) The reason(s) for imposing them;
(3) The corrective actions which must be taken before they will be removed and the time allowed for completing the corrective actions and
(4) The method of requesting reconsideration of the conditions/restrictions imposed.

# Subpart 105-71.12—Post-Award Requirements/Financial Administration
§ 105-71.120
Standards for financial management systems.
(a) A State must expand and account for grant funds in accordance with State laws and procedures for expending and accounting for its own funds. Fiscal control and accounting procedures of the State, as well as its subgrantees and cost-type contractors, must be sufficient to—
(1) Permit preparation of reports required by this part and the statutes authorizing the grant, and
(2) Permit the tracing of funds to a level of expenditures adequate to establish that such funds have not been used in violation of the restrictions and prohibitions of applicable statutes.
(b) The financial management systems of other grantees and subgrantees must meet the following standards:
(1)
Financial reporting.
Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial result of financially assisted activities must be made in accordance with the financial reporting requirements of the grant or subgrant.
(2)
Accounting records.
Grantees and subgrantees must maintain records which adequately identify the source and application of funds provided for financially-assisted activities. These records must contain information pertaining to grant or subgrant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays or expenditures, and income.
(3)
Internal control.
Effective control and accountability must be maintained for all grant and subgrant cash, real and personal property, and other assets. Grantees and subgrantees must adequately safeguard all such property and must assure that it is used solely for authorized purposes.
(4)
Budget control.
Actual expenditures or outlays must be compared with budgeted amounts for each grant or subgrant. Financial information must be related to performance or productivity data, including the development of unit cost information whenever appropriate or specifically required in the grant or subgrant agreement. If unit cost data are required, estimates based on available documentation will be accepted whenever possible.
(5)
Allowable cost.
Applicable OMB cost principles, agency program regulations, and the terms of grant and subgrant agreements will be followed in determining the reasonableness, allowability and allocability of costs.
(6)
Source documentation.
Accounting records must be supported by such source documentation as cancelled checks, paid bills, payrolls, time and attendance records, contract and subgrant award documents, etc.
(7)
Cash management.
Procedures for minimizing the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the U.S. Treasury and disbursement by grantees and subgrantees must be followed whenever advance payment procedures are used. Grantees must establish reasonable procedures to ensure the receipt of reports on subgrantees' cash balances and cash disbursements in sufficient time to enable them to prepare complete and accurate cash transactions reports to the awarding agency. When advances are made by letter-of-credit or electronic transfer of funds methods, the grantee must make drawdowns as close as possible to the time of making disbursements. Grantees must monitor cash drawdowns by their subgrantees to assure that they conform substantially to the same standards of timing and amount as apply to advances to the grantees.
(c) An awarding agency may review the adequacy of the financial management system of any applicant for financial assistance as part of a preaward review or at any time subsequent to award.
§ 105-71.121
Payment.
(a)
Scope.
This section prescribes the basic standard and the methods under which a Federal agency will make payments to grantees, and grantees will make payments to subgrantees and contractors.
(b)
Basic standard.
Methods and procedures for payment shall minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and disbursement by the grantee or subgrantee, in accordance with Treasury regulations at 31 CFR part 205.
(c)
Advances.
Grantees and subgrantees shall be paid in advance, provided they maintain or demonstrate the willingness and ability to maintain procedures to minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of the funds and their disbursement by the grantee or subgrantee.
(d)
Reimbursement.
Reimbursement shall be the preferred method when the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section are not met. Grantees and subgrantees may also be paid by reimbursement for any construction grant. Except as otherwise specified in regulation, Federal agencies shall not use the percentage of completion method to pay construction grants. The grantee or subgrantee may use that method to pay its construction contractor, and if it does, awarding agency's payments to the grantee or subgrantee will be based on the grantee's or subgrantee's actual rate of disbursement.
(e)
Working capital advances.
If a grantee cannot meet the criteria for advance payments described in paragraph (c) of this section, and the Federal agency has determined that reimbursement is not feasible because the grantee lacks sufficient working capital the awarding agency may provide cash or a working capital, advance basis. Under this procedure the awarding agency shall advance cash to the grantee to cover its estimated disbursement needs for an initial period generally geared to the grantee's disbursing cycle. Thereafter, the awarding agency shall reimburse the grantee for its actual cash disbursements. The working capital advance method of payment shall not be used by grantees or subgrantees if the reason for using such method is the unwillingness or inability of the grantee to provide timely advances to the subgrantee to meet the subgrantee's actual cash disbursements.
(f)
Effect of program income, refunds and audit recoveries on payment.
(1) Grantees and subgrantees shall disburse repayments to and interest earned on a revolving fund before requesting additional cash payments for the same activity.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, grantees and subgrantees shall disburse program income, rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional cash payments.
(g)
Withholding payments.
(1) Unless otherwise required by Federal statute, awarding agencies shall not withhold payments for proper charges incurred by grantees or subgrantees unless—
(i) The grantee or subgrantee has failed to comply with grant award conditions or
(ii) The grantee or subgrantee is indebted to the United States.
(2) Cash withheld for failure to comply with grant award conditions, but without suspension of the grant, shall be released to the grantee upon subsequent compliance. When a grant is suspended, payment adjustments will be made in accordance with § 105-71.143(c).
(3) A Federal agency shall not make payment to grantees for amounts that are withheld by grantees or subgrantees from payment to contractors to assure satisfactory completion of work. Payments shall be made by the Federal agency when the grantees or subgrantees actually disburse the withheld funds to the contractors or to escrow accounts established to assure satisfactory completion of work.
(h)
Cash depositories.
(1) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for minority business enterprises, grantees and subgrantees are encouraged to use minority banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by minority group members). A list of minority owned banks can be obtained from the Minority Business Development Agency, Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230.
(2) A grantee or subgrantee shall maintain a separate bank account only when required by Federal-State agreement.
(i)
Interest earned on advances.
Except for interest earned on advances of funds exempt under the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (31 U.S.C. 6501
et seq.
) and the Indian Self-Determination Act (23 U.S.C. 450), grantees and subgrantees shall promptly, but at least quarterly, remit interest earned on advances to the Federal agency. The grantee or subgrantee may keep interest amounts up to $100 per year for administrative expenses.
§ 105-71.122
Allowable costs.
(a)
Limitation on use of funds.
Grant funds may be used only for:
(1) The allowable costs of the grantees, subgrantees and cost-type contractors, including allowable costs in the form of payments to fixed-price contractors; and
(2) Reasonable fees or profit to cost-type contractors but not any fee or profit (or other increment above allowable costs) to the grantee or subgrantee.
(b)
Applicable cost principles.
For each kind of organization, there is a set of Federal principles for determining allowable costs. Allowable costs will be determined in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the organization incurring the costs. The following chart lists the kinds of organizations and the applicable cost principles:
For the costs of a—
Use the principles in—
State, local or Indian tribal government.
OMB Circular A-87.
Private nonprofit organization other than an (1) institution of higher education, (2) hospital, or (3) organization named in OMB Circular A-122 as not subject to that circular
OMB Circular A-122.
Educational institutions
OMB Circular A-21
For-profit organization other than a hospital and an organization named in OMB Circular A-122 as not subject to that circular
48 CFR part 31, Contract Cost Principles and Procedures, or uniform cost accounting standards that comply with cost principles acceptable to the Federal agency.
§ 105-71.123
Period of availability of funds.
(a)
General.
Where a funding period is specified, a grantee may charge to the award only costs resulting from obligations of the funding period unless carryover or unobligated balances are permitted, in which case the carryover balances may be charged for costs resulting from obligations of the subsequent funding period.
(b)
Liquidation of obligations.
A grantee must liquidate all obligations incurred under the award not later than 90 days after the end of the funding period (or as specified in a program regulation) to coincide with the submission of the annual Financial Status Report (SF-269). The Federal agency may extend this deadline at the request of the grantee.
§ 105-71.124
Matching or cost sharing.
(a)
Basic rule: Costs and contributions acceptable.
With the qualifications and exceptions listed in paragraph (b) of this section, a matching or cost sharing requirement may be satisfied by either or both of the following:
(1) Allowable costs incurred by the grantee, subgrantee or cost-type contractor under the assistance agreement. This includes allowable costs borne by non-Federal grants or by other cash donations from non-Federal third parties.
(2) The value of third party in-kind contributions applicable to the period to which the cost sharing or matching requirements apply.
(b)
Qualifications and exceptions
—(1)
Costs borne by other Federal grant agreements.
Except as provided by Federal statute, a cost sharing or matching requirement may not be met by costs borne by another Federal grant. This prohibition does not apply to income earned by a grantee or subgrantee from a contract awarded under another Federal grant.
(2)
General revenue sharing.
For the purpose of this section, general revenue sharing funds distributed under 31 U.S.C. 6702 are not considered Federal grant funds.
(3)
Cost or contributions counted towards other Federal costs-sharing requirements.
Neither costs nor the values of third party in-kind contributions may count towards satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement of a grant agreement if they have been or will be counted towards satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement of another Federal grant agreement, a Federal procurement contract or any other award of Federal funds.
(4)
Costs financed by program income.
Costs financed by program income, as defined in § 105-71.125, shall not count towards satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement unless they are expressly permitted in the terms of the assistance agreement. (This use of general program income is described in § 105-71.125(g).)
(5)
Services or property financed by income earned by contractors.
Contractors
under a grant may earn income from the activities carried out under the contract in addition to the amounts earned from the party awarding the contract. No costs of services or property supported by this income may count toward satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement unless other provisions of the grant agreement expressly permit this kind of income to be used to meet the requirement.
(6)
Records.
Costs and third party in-kind contributions counting towards satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement must be verifiable from the records of grantees and subgrantee or cost-type contractors. These records must show how the value placed on third party in-kind contributions was derived. To the extent feasible, volunteer services will be supported by the same methods that the organization uses to support the allocability of regular personnel costs.
(7)
Special standards for third party in-kind contributions.
(i) Third party in-kind contributions count towards satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement only where, if the party receiving the contributions were to pay for them, the payments would be allowable costs.
(ii) Some third party in-kind contributions are goods and services that, if the grantee, subgrantee, or contractor receiving the contribution had to pay for them, the payments would have been an indirect cost. Costs sharing or matching credit for such contributions shall be given only if the grantee, subgrantee, or contractor has established, along with its regular indirect cost rate, a special rate for allocating to individual projects or programs the value of contributions.
(iii) A third party in-kind contribution to a fixed price contract may count towards satisfying a cost sharing or matching requirement only if it results in:
(A) An increase in the services or property provided under the contract (without additional cost to the grantee or subgrantee) or
(B) A cost savings to the grantee or subgrantee.
(iv) The values placed on third party in-kind contributions for cost sharing or matching purposes will conform to the rules in the succeeding sections of this part. If a third party in-kind contribution is a type not treated in those sections, the value placed upon it shall be fair and reasonable.
(c)
Valuation of donated services
—(1)
Volunteer services.
Unpaid services provided to a grantee or subgrantee by individuals will be valued at rates consistent with those ordinarily paid for similar work in the grantee's or subgrantee's organization. If the grantee or subgrantee does not have employees performing similar work, the rates will be consistent with those ordinarily paid by other employers for similar work in the same labor market. In either case, a reasonable amount for fringe benefits may be included in the valuation.
(2)
Employees of other organizations.
When an employer other than a grantee, subgrantee, or cost-type contractor furnishes free of charge the services of an employee in the employee's normal line of work, the services will be valued at the employee's regular rate of pay exclusive of the employee's fringe benefits and overhead costs. If the services are in a different line of work, paragraph (c)(1) of this section applies.
(d)
Valuation of third party donated supplies and loaned equipment or space.
(1) If a third party donates supplies, the contribution will be valued at the market value of the supplies at the time of donation.
(2) If a third party donates the use of equipment or space in a building but retains title, the contribution will be valued at the fair rental rate of the equipment or space.
(e)
Valuation of third party donated equipment, buildings, and land.
If a third party donates equipment, buildings, or land, and the title passes to a grantee or subgrantee, the treatment of the donated property will depend upon the purpose of the grant or subgrant as follows:
(1)
Awards for capital expenditures.
If the purpose of the grant or subgrant is to assist the grantee or subgrantee in the acquisition of property, the market value of that property at the time of donation may be counted as cost sharing or matching.
(2)
Other awards.
If assisting in the acquisition of property is not the purpose of the grant or subgrant, paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.
(i) If approval is obtained from the awarding agency, the market value at the time of donation of the donated equipment or buildings and the fair rental rate of the donated land may be counted as cost sharing or matching. In the case of a subgrant, the terms of the grant agreement may require that the approval be obtained from the Federal agency as well as the grantee. In all cases, the approval may be given only if a purchase of the equipment or rental of the land would be approved as an allowable direct cost. If any part of the donated property was acquired with Federal funds, only the non-Federal share of the property may be counted as cost sharing or matching.
(ii) If approval is not obtained under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, no amount may be counted for donated land, and only depreciation or use allowances may be counted for donated equipment and buildings. The depreciation or use allowances for this property are not treated as third party in-kind contributions. Instead, they are treated as costs incurred by the grantee or subgrantee. They are computed and allocated (usually as indirect costs) in accordance with the cost principles specified in § 105-71.122, in the same way as depreciation or use allowances for purchased equipment and buildings. The amount of depreciation or use allowances for donated equipment and buildings is based on the property's market value at the time it was donated.
(f)
Valuation of grantee or subgrantee donated real property for construction/acquisition.
If a grantee or subgrantee donates real property for a construction or facilities acquisition project, the current market value of that property may be counted as cost sharing or matching. If any part of the donated property was acquired with Federal funds, only the non-Federal share of the property may be counted as cost sharing or matching.
(g)
Appraisal of real property.
In some cases under paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section, it will be necessary to establish the market value of land or a building or the fair rental rate of land or of space in the building. In these cases, the Federal agency may require the market value or fair rental value be set by an independent appraiser, and that the value or rate be certified by the grantee. This requirement will also be imposed by the grantee on subgrantees.
§ 105-71.125
Program income.
(a)
General.
Grantees are encouraged to earn income to defray program costs. Program income includes income from fees for services performed, from the use or rental of real or personal property acquired with grant funds, from the sale of commodities or items fabricated under a grant agreement, and from payments of principal and interest on loans made with grant funds. Except as otherwise provided in regulations of the Federal agency, program income does not include interest on grant funds, rebates, credits, discounts, refunds, etc. and interest earned on any of them.
(b)
Definition of program income.
Program income means gross income received by the grantee or subgrantee directly generated by a grant supported activity, or earned only as a result of the grant agreement during the grant period. “During the grant period” is the time between the effective date of the award and the ending date of the award reflected in the final financial report.
(c)
Cost of generating program income.
If authorized by Federal regulations or the grant agreement, costs incident to the generation of program income may be deducted from gross income to determine program income.
(d)
Government revenues.
Taxes, special assessments, levies, fines, and other such revenues raised by a grantee or subgrantee are not program income unless the revenues are specifically identified in the grant agreement or Federal agency regulations as program income.
(e)
Royalties.
Income from royalties and license fees for copyrighted material, patents, and inventions developed by a grantee or subgrantee is program income only if the revenues are specifically identified in the grant agreement
or Federal agency regulations as program income. (See § 105-71.134.)
(f)
Property.
Proceeds from the sale of real property or equipment will be handled in accordance with the requirements of §§ 105-71.131 and 105-71.132.
(g)
Use of program income.
Program income shall be deducted from outlays which may be both Federal and non-Federal as described below, unless the Federal agency regulations or the grant agreement specify another alternative (or a combination of the alternatives). In specifying alternatives, the Federal agency may distinguish between income earned by the grantee and income earned by subgrantees and between the sources, kinds, or amounts of income. When Federal agencies authorize the alternatives in paragraphs (g) (2) and (3) of this section, program income in excess of any limits stipulated shall also be deducted from outlays.
(1)
Deduction.
Ordinarily program income shall be deducted from total allowable costs to determine the net allowable costs. Program income shall be used for current costs unless the Federal agency authorizes otherwise. Program income which the grantee did not anticipate at the time of the award shall be used to reduce the Federal agency and grantee contributions rather than to increase the funds committed to the project.
(2)
Addition.
When authorized, program income may be added to the funds committed to the grant agreement by the Federal agency and the grantee. The program income shall be used for the purposes and under the conditions of the grant agreement.
(3)
Cost sharing or matching.
When authorized, program income may be used to meet the cost sharing or matching requirement of the grant agreement. The amount of the Federal grant award remains the same.
(h)
Income after the award period.
There are no Federal requirements governing the disposition of program income earned after the end of the award period (i.e., until the ending date of the final financial report, see paragraph (a) of this section), unless the terms of the agreement or the Federal agency regulations provide otherwise.
§ 105-71.126
Non-Federal audit.
(a)
Basic rule.
Grantees and subgrantees are responsible for obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507) and revised OMB Circular A-133, “Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations.” The audits shall be made by an independent auditor in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards covering financial audits.
(b)
Subgrantees.
State or local governments, as those terms are defined for purposes of the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, that provide Federal awards to a subgrantee, which expends $300,000 or more (or other amount as specified by OMB) in Federal awards in a fiscal year, shall:
(1) Determine whether State or local subgrantees have met the audit requirements of the Act and whether subgrantees covered by OMB Circular A-110, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations,” have met the audit requirements of the Act. Commercial contractors (private for-profit and private and governmental organizations) providing goods and services to State and local governments are not required to have a single audit performed. State and local governments should use their own procedures to ensure that the contractor has complied with laws and regulations affecting the expenditure of Federal funds;
(2) Determine whether the subgrantee spent Federal assistance funds provided in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. This may be accomplished by reviewing an audit of the subgrantee made in accordance with the Act, Circular A-110, or through other means (e.g., program reviews) if the subgrantee has not had such an audit;
(3) Ensure the appropriate corrective action is taken within six months after receipt of the audit report in instance of noncompliance with Federal laws and regulations;
(4) Consider whether subgrantee audits necessitate adjustment of the grantee's own records; and
(5) Require each subgrantee to permit independent auditors to have access to the records and financial statements.
(c)
Auditor selection.
In arranging for audit services, § 105-71.136 shall be followed.
[58 FR 43270, Aug. 16, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 45939, 45944, Aug. 29, 1997]

# Subpart 105-71.13—Post-Award Requirements/Changes, Property, and Subawards
§ 105-71.130
Changes.
(a)
General.
Grantees and subgrantees are permitted to rebudget within the approved direct cost budget to meet unanticipated requirements and may make limited program changes to the approved project. However, unless waived by the awarding agency, certain types of post-award changes in budgets and projects shall require the prior written approval of the awarding agency.
(b)
Relation to cost principles.
The applicable cost principles (see § 105-71.122) contain requirements for prior approval of certain types of costs. Except where waived, those requirements apply to all grants and subgrants even if paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section do not.
(c)
Budget changes
—(1)
Non-construction projects.
Except as stated in other regulations or an award document, grantees or subgrantees shall obtain the prior approval of the awarding agency whenever any of the following changes is anticipated under a non-construction award:
(i) Any revision which would result in the need for additional funding.
(ii) Unless waived by the awarding agency, cumulative transfers among direct cost categories, or, if applicable, among separately budgeted programs, projects, functions, or activities which exceed or are expected to exceed ten percent of the current total approved budget, whenever the awarding agency's share exceeds $100,000.
(iii) Transfer of funds allotted for training allowances (i.e., from direct payments to trainees to other expense categories).
(2)
Construction projects.
Grantees and subgrantees shall obtain prior written approval for any budget revision which would result in the need for additional funds.
(3)
Combined construction and non-construction projects.
When a grant or subgrant provides funding for both construction and non-construction activities, the grantee or subgrantee must obtain prior written approval from the awarding agency before making any fund or budget transfer from non-construction to construction or vice versa.
(d)
Programmatic changes.
Grantees or subgrantees must obtain the prior approval of the awarding agency whenever any of the following actions is anticipated:
(1) Any revision of the scope or objectives of the project (regardless of whether there is an associated budget revision requiring prior approval).
(2) Need to extend the period of availability of funds.
(3) Changes in key persons in cases where specified in an application or a grant award. In research projects, a change in the project director or principal investigator shall always require approval unless waived by the awarding agency.
(4) Under non-construction projects, contracting out, subgranting (if authorized by law) or otherwise obtaining the services of a third party to perform activities which are central to the purposes of the award. This approval requirement is in addition to the approval requirements of § 105-71.136 but does not apply to the procurement of equipment, supplies, and general support services.
(e)
Additional prior approval requirements.
The awarding agency may not require prior approval for any budget revision which is not described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(f)
Requesting prior approval.
(1) A request for prior approval of any budget revision will be in the same budget format the grantee used in its application and shall be accomplished by a narrative justification for the proposed revision.
(2) A request for a prior approval under the applicable Federal cost principles (see § 105-71.122) may be made by letter.
(3) A request by a subgrantee for prior approval will be addressed in
writing to the grantee. The grantee will promptly review such request and shall approve or disapprove the request in writing. A grantee will not approve any budget or project revision which is inconsistent with the purpose or terms and conditions of the Federal grant to the grantee. If the revision, requested by the subgrantee would result in a change to the grantee's approved project which requires Federal prior approval, the grantee will obtain the Federal agency's approval before approving the subgrantee's request.
§ 105-71.131
Real property.
(a)
Title.
Subject to the obligations and conditions set forth in this section, title to real property acquired under a grant or subgrant will vest upon acquisition in the grantee or subgrantee respectively.
(b)
Use.
Except as otherwise provided by Federal statutes, real property will be used for the originally authorized purposes as long as needed for that purpose, and the grantee or subgrantee shall not dispose of or encumber its title or other interests.
(c)
Disposition.
When real property is no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, the grantee or subgrantee will request disposition instructions from the awarding agency. The instructions will provide for one of the following alternatives.
(1)
Retention of title.
Retain title after compensating the awarding agency. The amount paid to the awarding agency will be computed by applying the awarding agency's percentage of participation in the cost of the original purchase to the fair market value of the property. However, in those situations where a grantee or subgrantee is disposing of real property acquired with grant funds and acquiring replacement real property under the same program, the net proceeds from the disposition may be used as an offset to the cost of the replacement property.
(2)
Sale of property.
Sell the property and compensate the awarding agency. The amount due to the awarding agency will be calculated by applying the awarding agency's percentage of participation in the cost of the original purchase to the proceeds of the sale after deduction of any actual and reasonable selling and fixing-up expenses. If the grant is still active, the net proceeds from the sale may be offset against the original cost of the property. When a grantee or subgrantee is directed to sell property, sales procedures shall be followed that provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return.
(3)
Transfer of title.
Transfer title to the awarding agency or to a third-party designated/approved by the awarding agency. The grantee or subgrantee shall be paid an amount calculated by applying the grantee or subgrantee's percentage of participation in the purchase of the real property to the current fair market value of the property.
§ 105-71.132
Equipment.
(a)
Title.
Subject to the obligations and conditions set forth in this section, title to equipment acquired under a grant or subgrant will vest upon acquisition in the grantee or subgrantee respectively.
(b)
States.
A State will use, manage, and dispose of equipment acquired under a grant by the State in accordance with State laws and procedures. Other grantees and subgrantees will follow paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.
(c)
Use.
(1) Equipment shall be used by the grantee or subgrantee in the program or project for which it was acquired as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by Federal funds. When no longer needed for the original program or project, the equipment may be used in other activities currently or previously supported by a Federal agency.
(2) The grantee or subgrantee shall also make equipment available for use on other projects or programs currently or previously supported by the Federal Government, providing such use will not interfere with the work on the projects or program for which it was originally acquired. First preference for other use shall be given to other programs or projects supported by the awarding agency. User fees should be considered if appropriate.
(3) Notwithstanding the encouragement in § 105-71.125(a) to earn program income, the grantee or subgrantee must not use equipment acquired with grant funds to provide services for a fee to compete unfairly with private companies that provide equivalent services, unless specifically permitted or contemplated by Federal statute.
(4) When acquiring replacement equipment, the grantee or subgrantee may use the equipment to be replaced as a trade-in or sell the property and use the proceeds to offset the cost of the replacement property, subject to the approval of the awarding agency.
(d)
Management requirements.
Procedures for managing equipment (including replacement equipment), whether acquired in whole or in part with grant funds, until disposition takes place will, as a minimum, meet the following requirements:
(1) Property records must be maintained that include a description of the property, a serial number or other identification number, the source of property, who holds the title, the acquisition date, and cost of the property, percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the property, the location, use and condition of the property, and any ultimate disposition data including the data of disposal and sale price of the property.
(2) A physical inventory of the property must be taken and the results reconciled with the property records at least once every two years.
(3) A control system must be developed to ensure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage or theft of the property. Any loss, damage or theft shall be investigated.
(4) Adequate maintenance procedures must be developed to keep the property in good condition.
(5) If the grantee or subgrantee is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures must be established to ensure the highest possible return.
(e)
Disposition.
When original or replacement equipment acquired under a grant or subgrant is no longer needed for the original project or program or for other activities currently or previously supported by a Federal agency, disposition of the equipment will be made as follows:
(1) Items of equipment with a current per-unit fair market value of less than $5,000 may be retained, sold or otherwise disposed of with no further obligation to the awarding agency.
(2) Items of equipment with a current per unit fair market value in excess of $5,000 may be retained or sold and the awarding agency shall have a right to an amount calculated by multiplying the current market value or proceeds from sale by the awarding agency's share of the equipment.
(3) In cases where a grantee or subgrantee fails to take appropriate disposition actions, the awarding agency may direct the grantee or subgrantee to take excess and disposition actions.
(f)
Federal equipment.
In the event grantee or subgrantee is provided federally-owned equipment:
(1) Title will remain vested in the Federal Government.
(2) Grantees or subgrantees will manage the equipment in accordance with Federal agency rules and procedures, and submit an annual inventory listing.
(3) When the equipment is no longer needed, the grantee or subgrantee will request disposition instructions from the Federal agency.
(g)
Right to transfer title.
The Federal awarding agency may reserve the right to transfer title to the Federal Government or a third party named by the awarding agency when such a third party is otherwise eligible under existing statutes. Such transfers shall be subject to the following standards:
(1) The property shall be identified in the grant or otherwise made known to the grantee in writing.
(2) The Federal awarding agency shall issue disposition instruction within 120 calendar days after the end of the Federal support of the project for which it was acquired. If the Federal awarding agency fails to issue disposition instructions within the 120 calendar-day period the grantee shall follow § 105-71.132(e).
(3) When title to equipment is transferred, the grantee shall be paid an
amount calculated by applying the percentage of participation in the purchase to the current fair market value of the property.
§ 105-71.133
Supplies.
(a)
Title.
Title to supplies acquired under a grant or subgrant will vest, upon acquisition, in the grantee or subgrantee respectively.
(b)
Disposition.
If there is a residual inventory of unused supplies exceeding $5,000 in total aggregate fair market value upon termination or completion of the award, and if the supplies are not needed for any other federally sponsored programs or projects, the grantee or subgrantee shall compensate the awarding agency for its share.
§ 105-71.134
Copyrights.
The Federal awarding agency reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish or otherwise use, and to authorize others to use, for Federal Government purposes:
(a) The copyright in any work developed under a grant, subgrant, or contract under a grant or subgrant; and
(b) Any rights of copyright to which a grantee, subgrantee or a contractor purchases ownership with grant support.
§ 105-71.135
Subawards to debarred and suspended parties.
Grantees and subgrantees must not make any award or permit any award (subgrant or contract) at any tier to any party which is debarred or suspended or is otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance programs under Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension”.
§ 105-71.136
Procurement.
(a)
States.
When procuring property and services under a grant, a State will allow the same policies and procedures it uses for procurements from its non-Federal funds. The State will ensure that every purchase order or other contract includes any clauses required by Federal statutes and executive orders and their implementing regulations. Other grantees and subgrantees will follow paragraphs (b) through (i) in this section.
(b)
Procurement standards.
(1) Grantees and subgrantees will use their own procurement procedures which reflect applicable State and local laws and regulations, provided that the procurements conform to applicable Federal law and the standards identified in this section.
(2) Grantees and subgrantees will maintain a contract administration system which ensures that contractors perform in accordance with the terms, conditions and specifications of their contracts or purchase orders.
(3) Grantees and subgrantees will maintain a written code of standards of conduct governing the performance of their employees engaged in the award and administration of contracts. No employee, officer or agent of the grantee or subgrantee shall participate in selection, or in the award or administration of a contract supported by Federal funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved. Such a conflict would arise when:
(i) The employee, officer or agent,
(ii) Any member of his immediate family,
(iii) His or her partner, or
(iv) An organization which employs, or is about to employ, any of the above, has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for award. The grantee's or subgrantee's officers, employees or agent will neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from contractors, potential contractors, or parties to subagreements. Grantees and subgrantees may set minimum rules where the financial interest is not substantial or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal intrinsic value. To the extent permitted by State or local law or regulations, such standards of conduct will provide for penalties, sanctions, or other disciplinary actions for violations of such standards by the grantee's officers, employees, or agents, or by contractors or their agents. The awarding agency may in regulation provide additional prohibitions relative to real, apparent, or potential conflicts of interest.
(4) Grantee and subgrantee procedures will provide for a review of proposed procurements to avoid purchase of unnecessary or duplicative items. Consideration should be given to consolidating or breaking out procurements to obtain a more economical purchase. Where appropriate, an analysis will be made of lease versus purchase alternatives, and any other appropriate analysis to determine the most economical approach.
(5) To foster greater economy and efficiency, grantees and subgrantees are encouraged to enter into State and local intergovernmental agreements for procurement or use of common goods and services.
(6) Grantees and subgrantees are encouraged to use Federal excess and surplus property in lieu of purchasing new equipment and property whenever such use is feasible and reduces project costs.
(7) Grantees and subgrantees are encouraged to use value engineering clauses in contracts for construction projects of sufficient size to offer reasonable opportunities for cost reductions. Value engineering is a systematic and creative analysis of each contract item or task to ensure that its essential function is provided at the overall lower cost.
(8) Grantees and subgrantees will make awards only to responsible contractors possessing the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed procurement. Consideration will be given to such matters as contractor integrity, compliance with public policy, record of past performance, and financial and technical resources.
(9) Grantees and subgrantees will maintain records sufficient to detail the significant history of a procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: Rationale for the method of procurement, selection of contract type, contractor selection or rejection, and the basis for the contract price.
(10) Grantees and subgrantees will use time and material type contracts only—
(i) After a determination that no other contract is suitable, and
(ii) If the contract includes a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk.
(11) Grantees and subgrantees alone will be responsible, in accordance with good administrative practice and sound business judgment, for the settlement of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements. These issues include, but are not limited to source evaluation, protests, disputes and claims. These standards do not relieve the grantee or subgrantee of any contractual responsibilities under its contracts. Federal agencies will not substitute their judgment for that of the grantee or subgrantee unless the matter is primarily a Federal concern. Violations of law will be referred to the local, State or Federal authority having proper jurisdiction.
(12) Grantees and subgrantees will have protest procedures to handle and resolve disputes relating to their procurements and shall in all instances disclose information regarding the protests to the awarding agency. A protestor must exhaust all administrative remedies with the grantee and subgrantee before pursuing a protest with the Federal agency. Reviews of protests by the Federal agency will be limited to:
(i) Violations of Federal law or regulations and the standards of this section (violations of State or local law will be under the jurisdiction of State or local authorities) and
(ii) Violations of grantee's or subgrantee's protest procedures for failure to review a complaint or protest. Protests received by the Federal agency other than those specified above will be referred to the grantee or subgrantee.
(c)
Competition.
(1) All procurement transactions will be conducted in a manner providing full and open competition consistent with the standards of § 105-71.136. Some of the situations considered to be restrictive of competition include but are not limited to:
(i) Placing unreasonable requirements on firms in order for them to qualify to do business,
(ii) Requiring unnecessary experience and excessive bonding,
(iii) Noncompetitive pricing practices between firms or between affiliated companies,
(iv) Noncompetitive awards to consultants that are on retainer contracts,
(v) Organizational conflicts of interest,
(vi) Specifying only a “brand name” product instead of allowing “an equal” product to be offered and describing the performance of other relevant requirements of the procurement, and
(vii) Any arbitrary action in the procurement process.
(2) Grantees and subgrantees will conduct procurements in a manner that prohibits the use of statutorily or administratively imposed in-State or local geographical preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except in those cases where applicable Federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage geographic preference. Nothing in this section preempts State licensing laws. When contracting for architectural and engineering (A/E) services, geographic location may be a selection criteria provided its application leaves an appropriate number of qualified firms, given the nature and size of the project, to compete for the contract.
(3) Grantees will have written selection procedures for procurement transactions. These procedures will ensure that all solicitations:
(i) Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured. Such description shall not, in competitive procurements, contain features which unduly restrict competition. The description may include a statement of the qualitative nature of the material, product or service to be procured, and when necessary, shall set forth those minimum essential characteristics and standards to which it must conform if it is to satisfy its intended use. Detailed product specifications should be avoided if at all possible. When it is impractical or uneconomical to make a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements, a “brand name or equal” description may be used as a means to define the performance or other salient requirements of a procurement. The specific features of the named brand which must be met by offerors shall be clearly stated; and
(ii) Identify all requirements which the offerors must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
(4) Grantees and subgrantees will ensure that all prequalified lists of persons, firms, or products which are used in acquiring goods and services are current and include enough qualified sources to ensure maximum open and free competition. Also, grantees and subgrantees will not preclude potential bidders from qualifying during the solicitation period.
(d)
Methods of procurement to be followed
—(1)
Procurement by small purchase procedures.
Small purchase procedures are those relatively simple and informal procurement methods for securing services, supplies, or other property that do not cost more than the simplified acquisition threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403(11) (currently set at $100,000). If small purchase procedures are used, price or rate quotations shall be obtained from an adequate number of qualified sources.
(2) Procurement by
sealed bids
(formal advertising). Bids are publicly solicited and a firm-fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the invitation for bids, is the lowest in price. The sealed bid method is the preferred method for procuring construction, if the conditions in § 105-71.136(d)(2)(i) apply.
(i) In order for sealed bidding to be feasible, the following conditions should be present:
(A) A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or purchase description is available;
(B) Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to compete effectively and for the business; and
(C) The procurement lends itself to a firm fixed price contract and the selection of the successful bidder can be made principally on the basis of price.
(ii) If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
(A) The invitation for bids will be publicly advertised and bids shall be solicited from an adequate number of known suppliers, providing them sufficient time prior to the date set for opening the bids;
(B) The invitation for bids, which will include any specifications and pertinent attachments, shall define the items or services in order for the bidder to properly respond;
(C) All bids will be publicly opened at the time and place prescribed in the invitation for bids;
(D) A firm fixed-price contract award will be made in writing to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding documents, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs shall be considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts will only be used to determine the low bid when prior experience indicates that such discounts are usually taken advantage of; and
(E) Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound documented reason.
(3) Procurement by
competitive proposals.
The technique of competitive proposals is normally conducted with more than one source submitting an offer, and either a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. It is generally used when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. If this method is used, the following requirements apply:
(i) Requests for proposals will be publicized and identify all evaluation factors and their relative importance. Any response to publicized requests for proposals shall be honored to the maximum extent practical;
(ii) Proposals will be solicited from an adequate number of qualified sources;
(iii) Grantees and subgrantees will have a method for conducting technical evaluations of the proposals received and for selecting awardees;
(iv) Awards will be made to the responsible firm whose proposal is most advantageous to the program, with price and other factors considered; and
(v) Grantees and subgrantees may use competitive proposal procedures for qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E) professional services whereby competitors' qualifications are evaluated and the most qualified competitor is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and reasonable compensation. The method, where price is not used as a selection factor, can only be used in procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot be used to purchase other types of services though A/E firms are a potential source to perform the proposed effort.
(4) Procurement by
noncompetitive proposals
is procurement through solicitation of a proposal from only one source, or after solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate.
(i) Procurement by noncompetitive proposals may be used only when the award of a contract is infeasible under small purchase procedures, sealed bids or competitive proposals and one of the following circumstances applies:
(A) The item is available only from a single source;
(B) The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not permit a delay resulting from competitive solicitation;
(C) The awarding agency authorizes noncompetitive proposals; or
(D) After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate.
(ii) Cost analysis, i.e., verifying the proposed cost data, the projections of the data, and the evaluation of the specific elements of costs and profits, is required.
(iii) Grantees and subgrantees may be required to submit the proposed procurement to the awarding agency for pre-award review in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.
(e)
Contracting with small and minority firms, women's business enterprise and labor surplus area firms.
(1) The grantee and subgrantee will take all necessary affirmative steps to assure that minority firms, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms are used when possible.
(2) Affirmative steps shall include:
(i) Placing qualified small and minority businesses and women's business enterprises on solicitation lists;
(ii) Assuring that small and minority businesses, and women's business enterprises are solicited whenever they are potential sources;
(iii) Dividing total requirements, when economically feasible, into smaller tasks or quantities to permit maximum participation by small and minority business, and women's business enterprises;
(iv) Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirement permits, which encourage participation by small and minority business, and women's business enterprises;
(v) Using the services and assistance of the Small Business Administration, and the Minority Business Development Agency of the Department of Commerce; and
(vi) Requiring the prime contractor, if subcontracts are to be let, to take the affirmative steps listed in paragraphs (e)(2) (i) through (v) of this section.
(f)
Contract cost and price.
(1) Grantees and subgrantees must perform a cost or price analysis in connection with every procurement action including contract modifications. The method and degree of analysis is dependent on the facts surrounding the particular procurement situation, but as a starting point, grantees must make independent estimates before receiving bids or proposals. A cost analysis must be performed when the offeror is required to submit the elements of his estimated cost, e.g., under professional, consulting, and architectural engineering services contracts. A cost analysis will be necessary when adequate price competition is lacking, and for sole source procurements, including contract modifications or change orders, unless price reasonableness can be established on the basis of a catalog or market price of a commercial product sold in substantial quantities to the general public or based on prices set by law or regulation. A price analysis will be used in all other instances to determine the reasonableness of the proposed contract price.
(2) Grantees and subgrantees will negotiate profit as a separate element of the price for each contract in which there is no price competition and in all cases where cost analysis is performed. To establish a fair and reasonable profit, consideration will be given to the complexity of the work to be performed, the risk borne by the contractor, the contractor's investment, the amount of subcontracting, the quality of its record of past performance, and industry profit rates in the surrounding geographical area for similar work.
(3) Costs or prices based on estimated costs for contracts under grants will be allowable only to the extent that costs incurred or cost estimates included in negotiated prices are consistent with Federal cost principles (see § 105-71.122). Grantees may reference their own cost principles that comply with the applicable Federal cost principles.
(4) The cost plus a percentage of cost and percentage of construction cost methods of contracting shall not be used.
(g)
Awarding agency review.
(1) Grantees and subgrantees must make available, upon request of the awarding agency, technical specifications on proposed procurements where the awarding agency believes such review is needed to ensure that the item and/or service specified is the one being proposed for purchase. This review generally will take place prior to the time the specification is incorporated into a solicitation document. However, if the grantee or subgrantee desires to have the review accomplished after a solicitation has been developed, the awarding agency may still review the specifications, with such review usually limited to the technical aspects of the proposed purchase.
(2) Grantees and subgrantees must on request make available for awarding agency pre-award review procurement documents, such as requests for proposals or invitations for bids, independent cost estimates, etc. when:
(i) A grantee's or subgrantee's procurement procedures or operation fails to comply with the procurement standards in this section; or
(ii) The procurement is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and is to be awarded without competition or only one bid or offer is received in response to a solicitation; or
(iii) The procurement, which is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, specifies a “brand name” product; or
(iv) The proposed award is more than the simplified acquisition threshold and is to be awarded to other than the apparent low bidder under a sealed bid procurement; or
(v) A proposed contract modification changes the scope of a contract or increases the contract amount by more than the simplified acquisition threshold.
(3) A grantee or subgrantee will be exempt from the pre-award review in paragraph (g)(2) of this section if the awarding agency determines that its procurement systems comply with the standards of this section.
(i) A grantee or subgrantee may request that its procurement system be reviewed by the awarding agency to determine whether its system meets these standards in order for its system to be certified. Generally, these reviews shall occur where there is a continuous high-dollar funding, and third-party contracts are awarded on a regular basis.
(ii) A grantee or subgrantee may self-certify its procurement system. Such self-certification shall not limit the awarding agency's right to survey the system. Under a self-certification procedure, awarding agencies may wish to rely on written assurances from the grantee or subgrantee that it is complying with these standards. A grantee or subgrantee will cite specific procedures, regulations, standards, etc., as being in compliance with these requirements and have its system available for review.
(h)
Bonding requirements.
For construction or facility improvement contracts or subcontracts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, the awarding agency may accept the bonding policy and requirements of the grantee or subgrantee provided the awarding agency has made a determination that the awarding agency's interest is adequately protected. If such a determination has not been made, the minimum requirements shall be as follows:
(1)
A bid guarantee from each bidder equivalent to five percent of the bid price.
The “bid guarantee” shall consist of a firm commitment such as a bid bond, certified check, or other negotiable instrument accompanying a bid as assurance that the bidder will, upon acceptance of his bid, execute such contractual documents as may be required within the time specified.
(2)
A performance bond on the part of the contractor for 100 percent of the contract price.
A “performance bond” is one executed in connection with a contract to secure fulfillment of all the contractor's obligations under such contract.
(3)
A payment bond on the part of the contractor for 100 percent of the contract price.
A “payment bond” is one executed in connection with a contract to assure payment as required by law of all persons supplying labor and material in the execution of the work provided for in the contract.
(i)
Contract provisions.
A grantee's and subgrantee's contracts must contain provisions in paragraph (i) of this section. Federal agencies are permitted to require changes, remedies, changed conditions, access and records retention, suspension of work, and other clauses approved by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy.
(1) Administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances where contractors violate or breach contract terms, and provide for such sanctions and penalties as may be appropriate. (Contracts more than the simplified acquisition threshold)
(2) Termination for cause and for convenience by the grantee or subgrantee including the manner by which it will be effected and the basis for settlement. (All contracts in excess of $10,000)
(3) Compliance with Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity,” as amended by Executive Order 11375 of October 13, 1967, and as supplemented in Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR chapter 60). (All construction contracts awarded in excess of $10,000 by grantees and their contractors or subgrantees)
(4) Compliance with the Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (18 U.S.C. 874) as supplemented in Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 3). (All contracts and subgrants for construction or repair)
(5) Compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a to 276a-7) as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5). (Construction contracts in excess of $2000 awarded by grantees and subgrantees when required by Federal grant program legislation)
(6) Compliance with sections 103 and 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-330) as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5). (Construction contracts awarded by grantees and subgrantees in excess of $2000, and in excess of $2500 for other contracts which involve the employment of mechanics or laborers)
(7) Notice of awarding agency requirements and regulations pertaining to reporting.
(8) Notice of awarding agency requirements and regulations pertaining to patent rights with respect to any discovery or invention which arises or is developed in the course of or under such contract.
(9) Awarding agency requirements and regulations pertaining to copyrights and rights in data.
(10) Access by the grantee, the subgrantee, the Federal grantor agency, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives to any books, documents, papers, and records of the contractor which are directly pertinent to that specific contract for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions.
(11) Retention of all required records for three years after grantees or subgrantees make final payments and all other pending matters are closed.
(12) Compliance with all applicable standards, orders, or requirements issued under section 306 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 1857(h)), section 508 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1368), Executive Order 11738, and Environmental Protection Agency regulations (40 CFR part 15). (Contracts, subcontracts, and subgrants of amounts in excess of $100,000)
(13) Mandatory standards and policies relating to energy efficiency which are contained in the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance with the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (Pub. L. 94-163, 89 Stat. 871).
[58 FR 43270, Aug. 16, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 19639, 19644, Apr. 19, 1995]
§ 105-71.137
Subgrants.
(a)
States.
States shall follow State law and procedures when awarding and administering subgrants (whether on a cost reimbursement or fixed amount basis) of financial assistance to local and Indian tribal governments. States shall:
(1) Ensure that every subgrant includes any clauses required by Federal statute and executive orders and their implementing regulations;
(2) Ensure that subgrantees are aware of requirements imposed upon them by Federal statute and regulation;
(3) Ensure that a provision for compliance with § 105-71.142 is placed in every cost reimbursement subgrant; and
(4) Conform any advances of grant funds to subgrantees substantially to the same standards of timing and amount that apply to cash advances by Federal agencies.
(b)
All other grantees.
All other grantees shall follow the provisions of this part which are applicable to awarding agencies when awarding and administering subgrants (whether on a cost reimbursement or fixed amount basis) of financial assistance to local and Indian tribal governments. Grantees shall:
(1) Ensure that every subgrant includes a provision for compliance with this part;
(2) Ensure that every subgrant includes any clauses required by Federal statute and executive orders and their implementing regulations; and
(3) Ensure that subgrantees are aware of requirements imposed upon them by Federal statutes and regulations.
(c)
Exceptions.
By their own terms, certain provisions of this part do not apply to the award and administration of subgrants:
(1) Section 105-71.110;
(2) Section 105-71.111;
(3) The letter-of-credit procedures specified in Treasury Regulations at 31 CFR part 205, cited in § 105-71.121; and
(4) Section 105-71.150.

# Subpart 105-71.14—Post-Award Requirements/Reports, Records, Retention, and Enforcement
§ 105-71.140
Monitoring and reporting program performance.
(a)
Monitoring by grantees.
Grantees are responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of grant and subgrant supported activities. Grantees must monitor grant and subgrant supported activities to assure compliance with applicable Federal requirements and that performance goals are being achieved. Grantee monitoring must cover each program, function or activity.
(b)
Non-construction performance reports.
The Federal agency may, if it decides that performance information available from subsequent applications contains sufficient information to meet its programmatic needs, require the grantee to submit a performance report only upon expiration or termination of grant support. Unless waived by the Federal agency this report will be due on the same date as the final Financial Status Report.
(1) Grantees shall submit annual performance reports unless the awarding agency requires quarterly or semiannual reports. However, performance reports will not be required more frequently than quarterly. Annual reports shall be due 90 days after the grant year, quarterly or semiannual reports shall be due 30 days after the reporting period. The final performance report will be due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant support. If a justified request is submitted by a grantee, the Federal agency may extend the due date for any performance report. Additionally, requirements for unnecessary performance reports may be waived by the Federal agency.
(2) Performance reports will contain, for each grant, brief information on the following:
(i) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for the period. Where the output of the project can be quantified, a computation of the cost per unit of output may be required if that information will be useful.
(ii) The reasons for slippage if established objectives were not met.
(iii) Additional pertinent information including, when appropriate, analysis and explanation of cost overruns or high unit costs.
(3) Grantees will not be required to submit more than the original and two copies of performance reports.
(4) Grantees will adhere to the standards in this section in prescribing performance reporting requirements for subgrantees.
(c)
Construction performance reports.
For the most part, on-site technical inspections and certified percentage-of-completion data are relied on heavily by Federal agencies to monitor progress under construction grants and subgrants. The Federal agency will require additional formal performance reports only when considered necessary, and never more frequently than quarterly.
(d)
Significant developments.
Events may occur between the scheduled performance reporting dates which have significant impact upon the grant or subgrant supported activity. In such cases, the grantee must inform the Federal agency as soon as the following types of conditions become known:
(1) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially impair the ability to meet the objective of the award. This disclosure must include a statement of the action taken, or contemplated, and any assistance needed to resolve the situation.
(2) Favorable developments which enable meeting time schedules and objectives sooner or at less cost than anticipated or producing more beneficial results than originally planned.
(e) Federal agencies may make site visits as warranted by program needs.
(f)
Waivers, extensions.
(1) Federal agencies may waive any performance report required by this part if not needed.
(2) The grantee may waive any performance report from a subgrantee when not needed. The grantee may exend the due date for any performance report from a subgrantee if the grantee
will still be able to meet its performance reporting obligations to the Federal agency.
§ 105-71.141
Financial reporting.
(a)
General.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a) (2) and (5) of this section, grantees will use only the forms specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, and such supplementary or other forms as may from time to time be authorized by OMB, for:
(i) Submitting financial reports to Federal agencies, or
(ii) Requesting advances or reimbursements when letters of credit are not used.
(2) Grantees need not apply the forms prescribed in this section in dealing with their subgrantees. However, grantees shall not impose more burdensome requirements on subgrantees.
(3) Grantees shall follow all applicable standard and supplemental Federal agency instructions approved by OMB to the extent required under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 for use in connection with forms specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. Federal agencies may issue substantive supplementary instructions only with the approval of OMB. Federal agencies may shade out or instruct the grantee to disregard any line item that the Federal agency finds unnecessary for its decision making purposes.
(4) Grantees will not be required to submit more than the original and two copies of forms required under this part.
(5) Federal agencies may provide computer outputs to grantees to expedite or contribute to the accuracy of reporting. Federal agencies may accept the required information from grantees in machine usable format or computer printouts instead of prescribed forms.
(6) Federal agencies may waive any report required by this section if not needed.
(7) Federal agencies may extend the due date on any financial report upon receiving a justified request from a grantee.
(b)
Financial Status Report
—(1)
Form.
Grantees will use Standard Form 269 or 269A, Financial Status Report, to report the status of funds for all non-construction grants and for construction grants when required in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(2)
Accounting basis.
Each grantee will report program outlays and program income on a cash or accrual basis as prescribed by the awarding agency. If the Federal agency requires accrual information and the grantee's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis, the grantee shall not be required to convert its accounting system but shall develop such accrual information through an analysis of the documentation on hand.
(3)
Frequency.
The Federal agency may prescribe the frequency of the report for each project or program. However, the report will not be required more frequently than quarterly. If the Federal agency does not specify the frequency of the report, it will be submitted annually. A final report will be required upon expiration or termination of grant support.
(4)
Due date.
When reports are required on a quarterly or semiannual basis, they will be due 30 days after the reporting period. When required on an annual basis, they will be due 90 days after the grant year. Final reports will be due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant support.
(c)
Federal Cash Transactions Report
—(1)
Form.
(i) For grants paid by letter of credit, Treasury check advances or electronic transfer of funds, the grantee will submit the Standard Form 272, Federal Cash Transactions Report, and when necessary, its continuation sheet, Standard Form 272A, unless the terms of the award exempt the grantee from this requirement.
(ii) These reports will be used by the Federal agency to monitor cash advanced to grantees and to obtain disbursement or outlay information for each grant from grantees. The format of the report may be adapted as appropriated when reporting is to be accomplished with the assistance of automatic data processing equipment provided that the information to be submitted is not changed in substance.
(2)
Forecasts of Federal cash requirements.
Forecasts of Federal cash requirements may be required in the “Remarks” section of the report.
(3)
Cash in hands of subgrantees.
When considered necessary and feasible by the Federal agency, grantees may be required to report the amount of cash advances in excess of three days' needs in the hands of their subgrantees or contractors and to provide short narrative explanations of actions taken by the grantee to reduce the excess balances.
(4)
Frequency and due date.
Grantees must submit the report no later than 15 working days following the end of each quarter. However, where an advance either by letter of credit or electronic transfer of funds is authorized at an annualized rate of one million dollars or more, the Federal agency may require the report to be submitted within 15 working days following the end of each month.
(d)
Request for advance or reimbursement
—(1)
Advance payments.
Requests for Treasury check advance payments will be submitted on Standard Form 270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement. (This form will not be used for drawdowns under a letter of credit, electronic funds transfer or when Treasury check advance payments are made to the grantee automatically on a predetermined basis.)
(2)
Reimbursements.
Requests for reimbursement under non-construction grants will also be submitted on Standard Form 270. (For reimbursement requests under construction grants, see paragraph (e)(1) of this section.)
(3) The frequency for submitting payment requests is treated in § 105-71.141(b)(3).
(e)
Outlay report and request for reimbursement for construction programs.
(1) Grants that support construction activities paid by reimbursement method.
(i) Requests for reimbursement under construction grants will be submitted on Standard Form 271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. Federal agencies may, however, prescribe the Request for Advance or Reimbursement form, specified in § 105-71.141(d), instead of this form.
(ii) The frequency for submitting reimbursement requests is treated in § 105-71.141(b)(3).
(2) Grants that support construction activities paid by letter of credit, electronic funds transfer or Treasury check advance.
(i) When a construction grant is paid by letter of credit, electronic funds transfer or Treasury check advances, the grantee will report its outlays to the Federal agency using Standard Form 271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. The Federal agency will provide any necessary special instruction. However, frequency and due date shall be governed by § 105-71.141(b) (3) and (4).
(ii) When a construction grant is paid by Treasury check advances based on periodic requests from the grantee, the advances will be requested on the form specified in § 105-71.141(d).
(iii) The Federal agency may substitute the Financial Status Report specified in § 105-71.141(b) for the Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.
(3)
Accounting basis.
The accounting basis for the Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs shall be governed by § 105-71.141(b)(2).
§ 105-71.142
Retention and access requirements for records.
(a)
Applicability.
(1) This section applies to all financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other records of grantees of subgrantees or subgrantees which are:
(i) Required to be maintained by the terms of this part, program regulations or the grant agreement, or
(ii) Otherwise reasonably considered as pertinent to program regulations or the grant agreement.
(2) This section does not apply to records maintained by contractors or subcontractors. For a requirement to place a provision concerning records in certain kinds of contracts, see § 105-71.136(i)(10).
(b)
Length of retention period.
(1) Except as otherwise provided, records must be retained for three years from the starting date specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started before the
expiration of the 3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.
(3) To avoid duplicate recordkeeping, awarding agencies may make special arrangements with grantees and subgrantees to retain any records which are continuously needed for joint use. The awarding agency will request transfer of records to its custody when it determines that the records possess long-term retention value. When the records are transferred to or maintained by the Federal agency, the 3-year retention requirement is not applicable to the grantee or subgrantee.
(c)
Starting date of retention period
—(1)
General.
When grant support is continued or renewed at annual or other intervals, the retention period for the records of each funding period starts on the day the grantee or subgrantee submits to the awarding agency its single or last expenditure report for that period. However, if grant support is continued or renewed quarterly, the retention period for each year's records starts on the day the grantee submits its expenditure report for the last quarter of the Federal fiscal year. In all other cases, the retention period starts on the day the grantee submits its final expenditure report. If an expenditure report has been waived, the retention period starts on the day the report would have been due.
(2)
Real property and equipment records.
The retention period for real property and equipment records starts from the date of the disposition or replacement or transfer at the direction of the awarding agency.
(3)
Records for income transactions after grant or subgrant support.
In some cases grantees must report income after the period of grant support. Where there is such a requirement, the retention period for the records pertaining to the earning of the income starts from the end of the grantee's fiscal year in which the income is earned.
(4)
Indirect cost rate proposals, cost allocations plans, etc.
This paragraph applies to the following types of documents, and their supporting records: indirect cost rate computations or proposals, cost allocation plans, and any similar accounting computations of the rates at which a particular group of costs is chargeable (such as computer usage chargeback rates or composite fringe benefit rates).
(i)
If submitted for negotiation.
If the proposal, plan, or other computation is required to be submitted to the Federal Government (or to the grantee) to form the basis for negotiation of the rate, then the 3-year retention period for its supporting records starts from the date of such submission.
(ii)
If not submitted for negotiation.
If the proposal, plan, or other computations are not required to be submitted to the Federal Government (or to the grantee) for negotiation purposes, then the 3-year retention period for the proposal plan, or computation and its supporting records starts from end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) covered by the proposal, plan, or other computation.
(d)
Substitution of microfilm.
Copies made by microfilming, photocopying, or similar methods may be substituted for the original records.
(e)
Access to records
—(1)
Records of grantees and subgrantees.
The awarding agency and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their authorized representatives, shall have the right of access to any pertinent books, documents, papers, or other records of grantees and subgrantees which are pertinent to the grant, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.
(2)
Expiration of right of access.
The rights of access in this section must not be limited to the required retention period but shall last as long as the records are retained.
(f)
Restrictions on public access.
The Federal Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) does not apply to records. Unless required by Federal, State, or local law, grantees and subgrantees are not required to permit public access to their records.
§ 105-71.143
Enforcement.
(a)
Remedies for noncompliance.
If a grantee or subgrantee materially fails to comply with any term of an award, whether stated in a Federal statute or regulation, an assurance, in a State
plan or application, a notice of award, or elsewhere, the awarding agency may take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances:
(1) Temporary withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the grantee or subgrantee or more severe enforcement action by the awarding agency,
(2) Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance,
(3) Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award for the grantee's or subgrantee's program,
(4) Without further awards for the program, or
(5) Take other remedies that may be legally available,
(b)
Hearings, appeals.
In taking an enforcement action, the awarding agency will provide the grantee or subgrantee an opportunity for such hearing, appeal, or other administrative proceeding to which the grantee or subgrantee is entitled under any statute or regulation applicable to the action involved.
(c)
Effects of suspension and termination.
Costs of grantee or subgrantee resulting from obligations incurred by the grantee or subgrantee during a suspension or after termination of an award are not allowable unless the awarding agency expressly authorizes them in the notice of suspension or termination or subsequently. Other grantee or subgrantee costs during suspension or after termination which are necessary and not reasonably avoidable are allowable if:
(1) The costs result from obligations which were properly incurred by the grantee or subgrantee before the effective date of suspension or termination, are not in anticipation of it, and, in case of a termination, are noncancellable, and,
(2) The cost would be allowable if the award were not suspended or expired normally at the end of the funding period in which the termination takes effect.
(d)
Relationship to debarment and suspension.
The enforcement remedies identified in this section, including suspension and termination, do not preclude grantee or subgrantee from being subject to “Debarment and Suspension” under E.O. 12549 (see § 105-71.135).
§ 105-71.144
Termination for convenience.
Except as provided in § 105-71.143 awards may be terminated in whole or in part only as follows:
(a) By the awarding agency with the consent of the grantee or subgrantee in which case the two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated, or
(b) By the grantee or subgrantee upon written notification to the awarding agency, setting forth the reasons for such termination, the effective date, and in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if, in the case of a partial termination, the awarding agency determines that the remaining portion of the award will not accomplish the purposes for which the award was made, the awarding agency may terminate the award in its entirety under either § 105-71.143 or paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart 105-71.15—After-the-Grant Requirements
§ 105-71.150
Closeout.
(a)
General.
The Federal agency will close out the award when it determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the grant has been completed.
(b)
Reports.
Within 90 days after the expiration or termination of the grant, the grantee must submit all financial, performance, and other reports required as a condition of the grant. Upon request by the grantee, Federal agencies may extend this timeframe. These may include but are not limited to:
(1) Final performance or progress report.
(2) Financial Status Report (SF 269) or Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs (SF-271) (as applicable).
(3) Final request for payment (SF-270) (if applicable).
(4) Invention disclosure (if applicable).
(5) Federally-owned property report: In accordance with § 105-71.132(f), a grantee must submit an inventory of all federally owned property (as distinct from property acquired with grant funds) for which it is accountable and request disposition instructions from the Federal agency of property no longer needed.
(c)
Cost adjustment.
The Federal agency will, within 90 days after receipt of reports in paragraph (b) of this section, make upward or downward adjustments to the allowable costs.
(d)
Cash adjustments.
(1) The Federal agency will make prompt payment to the grantee for allowable reimbursable costs.
(2) The grantee must immediately refund to the Federal agency any balance of unobligated (unencumbered) cash advanced that is not authorized to be retained for use on other grants.
§ 105-71.151
Later disallowances and adjustments.
The closeout of a grant does not affect:
(a) The Federal agency's right to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review;
(b) The grantee's obligation to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions;
(c) Records retention as required in § 105-71.142;
(d) Property management requirements in §§ 105-71.131 and 105-71.132; and
(e) Audit requirements in § 105-71.126.
§ 105-71.152
Collection of amounts due.
(a) Any funds paid to a grantee in excess of the amount to which the grantee is finally determined to be entitled under the terms of the award constitute a debt to the Federal Government. If not paid within a reasonable period after demand, the Federal agency may reduce the debt by:
(1) Making an administrative offset against other requests for reimbursement,
(2) Withholding advance payments otherwise due to the grantee, or
(3) Other action permitted by law.
(b) Except where otherwise provided by statutes or regulations, the Federal agency will charge interest on an overdue debt in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR Ch. II). The date from which interest is computed is not extended by litigation or the filing of any form of appeal.
Subpart 105-71.16—Entitlements [Reserved]
Pt. 105-72

# PART 105-72—UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION, HOSPITALS, AND OTHER NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS

# Subpart 105-72.1—General
Sec.
105-72.100
Purpose.
105-72.101
Definitions.
105-72.102
Effect on other issuances.
105-72.103
Deviations.
105-72.104
Subawards.

# Subpart 105-72.2—Pre-Award Requirements
105-72.200
Purpose.
105-72.201
Pre-award policies.
105-72.202
Forms for applying for Federal assistance.
105-72.203
Debarment and suspension.
105-72.204
Special award conditions.
105-72.205
Metric system of measurement.
105-72.206
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
105-72.207
Certifications and representations.

# Subpart 105-72.30—Post-Award Requirements/Financial and Program Management
105-72.300
Purpose of financial and program management.
105-72.301
Standards for financial management systems.
105-72.302
Payment.
105-72.303
Cost sharing or matching.
105-72.304
Program income.
105-72.305
Revision of budget and program plans.
105-72.306
Non-Federal audits.
105-72.307
Allowable costs.
105-72.308
Period of availability of funds.

# Subpart 105-72.40—Post-Award Requirements/Property Standards
105-72.400
Purpose of property standards.
105-72.401
Insurance coverage.
105-72.402
Real property.
105-72.403
Federally-owned and exempt property.
105-72.404
Equipment.
105-72.405
Supplies and other expendable property.
105-72.406
Intangible property.
105-72.407
Property trust relationship.

# Subpart 105-72.50—Post-Award Requirements/Procurement Standards
105-72.500
Purpose of procurement standards.
105-72.501
Recipient responsibilities.
105-72.502
Codes of conduct.
105-72.503
Competition.
105-72.504
Procurement procedures.
105-72.505
Cost and price analysis.
105-72.506
Procurement records.
105-72.507
Contract administration.
105-72.508
Contract provisions.

# Subpart 105-72.60—Post-Award Requirements/Reports and Records
105-72.600
Purpose of reports and records.
105-72.601
Monitoring and reporting program performance.
105-72.602
Financial reporting.
105-72.603
Retention and access requirements for records.

# Subpart 105-72.70—Post-Award Requirements/Termination and Enforcement
105-72.700
Purpose of termination and enforcement.
105-72.701
Termination.
105-72.702
Enforcement.

# Subpart 105-72.80—After-the-Award Requirements
105-72.800
Purpose.
105-72.801
Closeout procedures.
105-72.802
Subsequent adjustments and continuing responsibilities.
105-72.803
Collection of amounts due.
Appendix A to Part 105-72—Contract Provisions

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
59 FR 47268, Sept. 15, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 105-72.1—General
§ 105-72.100
Purpose.
This part establishes uniform administrative requirements for Federal grants and agreements awarded to institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations. Federal awarding agencies shall not impose additional or inconsistent requirements, except as provided in §§ 105-72.103, and 105-72.204 or unless specifically required by Federal statute or executive order. Non-profit organizations that implement Federal programs for the States are also subject to State requirements.
§ 105-72.101
Definitions.
(a)
Accrued expenditures
means the charges incurred by the recipient during a given period requiring the provision of funds for:
(1) Goods and other tangible property received;
(2) Services performed by employees, contractors, subrecipients, and other payees; and
(3) Other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance is required.
(b)
Accrued income
means the sum of:
(1) Earnings during a given period from
(i) Services performed by the recipient, and
(ii) Goods and other tangible property delivered to purchasers, and
(2) Amounts becoming owed to the recipient for which no current services or performance is required by the recipient.
(c)
Acquisition cost of equipment
means the net invoice price of the equipment, including the cost of modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make the property usable for the purpose for which it was acquired. Other charges, such as the cost of installation, transportation, taxes, duty or protective in-transit insurance, shall be included or excluded from the unit acquisition cost in accordance with the recipient's regular accounting practices.
(d)
Advance
means a payment made by Treasury check or other appropriate payment mechanism to a recipient upon its request either before outlays are made by the recipient or through the use of predetermined payment schedules.
(e)
Award
means financial assistance that provides support or stimulation to
accomplish a public purpose. Awards include grants and other agreements in the form of money or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government to an eligible recipient. The term does not include: technical assistance, which provides services instead of money; other assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, or insurance; direct payments of any kind to individuals; and, contracts which are required to be entered into and administered under procurement laws and regulations.
(f)
Cash contributions
means the recipient's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the recipient by third parties.
(g)
Closeout
means the process by which a Federal awarding agency determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the award have been completed by the recipient and Federal awarding agency.
(h)
Contract
means a procurement contract under an award or subaward, and a procurement subcontract under a recipient's or subrecipient's contract.
(i) Cost sharing or matching means that portion of project or program costs not borne by the Federal Government.
(j)
Date of completion
means the date on which all work under an award is completed or the date on the award document, or any supplement or amendment thereto, on which Federal sponsorship ends.
(k)
Disallowed
costs means those charges to an award that the Federal awarding agency determines to be unallowable, in accordance with the applicable Federal cost principles or other terms and conditions contained in the award.
(l)
Equipment
means tangible nonexpendable personal property including exempt property charged directly to the award having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5000 or more per unit. However, consistent with recipient policy, lower limits may be established.
(m)
Excess property
means property under the control of any Federal awarding agency that, as determined by the head thereof, is no longer required for its needs or the discharge of its responsibilities.
(n)
Exempt property
means tangible personal property acquired in whole or in part with Federal funds, where the Federal awarding agency has statutory authority to vest title in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government. An example of exempt property authority is contained in the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. 6306), for property acquired under an award to conduct basic or applied research by a non-profit institution of higher education or non-profit organization whose principal purpose is conducting scientific research.
(o)
Federal awarding agency
means the Federal agency that provides an award to the recipient.
(p)
Federal funds
authorized means the total amount of Federal funds obligated by the Federal Government for use by the recipient. This amount may include any authorized carryover of unobligated funds from prior funding periods when permitted by agency regulations or agency implementing instructions.
(q)
Federal share of real property, equipment, or supplies
means that percentage of the property's acquisition costs and any improvement expenditures paid with Federal funds.
(r)
Funding period
means the period of time when Federal funding is available for obligation by the recipient.
(s)
Intangible property and debt instruments
means, but is not limited to, trademarks, copyrights, patents and patent applications and such property as loans, notes and other debt instruments, lease agreements, stock and other instruments of property ownership, whether considered tangible or intangible.
(t)
Obligations
means the amounts of orders placed, contracts and grants awarded, services received and similar transactions during a given period that require payment by the recipient during the same or a future period.
(u)
Outlays or expenditures
means charges made to the project or program. They may be reported on a cash or accrual basis. For reports prepared on a cash basis, outlays are the sum of cash disbursements for direct charges for goods and services, the amount of indirect expense charged, the value of
third party in-kind contributions applied and the amount of cash advances and payments made to subrecipients. For reports prepared on an accrual basis, outlays are the sum of cash disbursements for direct charges for goods and services, the amount of indirect expense incurred, the value of in-kind contributions applied, and the net increase (or decrease) in the amounts owed by the recipient for goods and other property received, for services performed by employees, contractors, subrecipients and other payees and other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance are required.
(v)
Personal property
means property of any kind except real property. It may be tangible, having physical existence, or intangible, having no physical existence, such as copyrights, patents, or securities.
(w)
Prior approval
means written approval by an authorized official evidencing prior consent.
(x)
Program income
means gross income earned by the recipient that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the award (see exclusions in § 105-72.304 (e) and (h)). Program income includes, but is not limited to, income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under federally-funded projects, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under an award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and interest on loans made with award funds. Interest earned on advances of Federal funds is not program income. Except as otherwise provided in Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, program income does not include the receipt of principal on loans, rebates, credits, discounts, etc., or interest earned on any of them.
(y)
Project costs
means all allowable costs, as set forth in the applicable Federal cost principles, incurred by a recipient and the value of the contributions made by third parties in accomplishing the objectives of the award during the project period.
(z)
Project period
means the period established in the award document during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends.
(aa)
Property
means, unless otherwise stated, real property, equipment, intangible property and debt instruments.
(bb)
Real property
means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, but excludes movable machinery and equipment.
(cc)
Recipient
means an organization receiving financial assistance directly from Federal awarding agencies to carry out a project or program. The term includes public and private institutions of higher education, public and private hospitals, and other quasi-public and private non-profit organizations such as, but not limited to, community action agencies, research institutes, educational associations, and health centers. The term may include commercial organizations, foreign or international organizations (such as agencies of the United Nations) which are recipients, subrecipients, or contractors or subcontractors of recipients or subrecipients at the discretion of the Federal awarding agency. The term does not include government-owned contractor-operated facilities or research centers providing continued support for mission-oriented, large-scale programs that are government-owned or controlled, or are designated as federally-funded research and development centers.
(dd)
Research and development
means all research activities, both basic and applied, and all development activities that are supported at universities, colleges, and other non-profit institutions. “Research” is defined as a systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. “Development” is the systematic use of knowledge and understanding gained from research directed toward the production of useful materials, devices, systems, or methods, including design and development of prototypes and processes. The term research also includes activities involving the training of individuals in research techniques where such activities utilize the same facilities as other research and development activities and where such activities are not included in the instruction function.
(ee)
Small awards
means a grant or cooperative agreement not exceeding the small purchase threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403(11) (currently $25,000).
(ff)
Subaward
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under an award by a recipient to an eligible subrecipient or by a subrecipient to a lower tier subrecipient. The term includes financial assistance when provided by any legal agreement, even if the agreement is called a contract, but does not include procurement of goods and services nor does it include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of “award” in paragraph 105-72.101(e).
(gg)
Subrecipient
means the legal entity to which a subaward is made and which is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds provided. The term may include foreign or international organizations (such as agencies of the United Nations) at the discretion of the Federal awarding agency.
(hh)
Supplies
means all personal property excluding equipment, intangible property, and debt instruments as defined in this section, and inventions of a contractor conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the performance of work under a funding agreement (“subject inventions”), as defined in 37 CFR part 401, “Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements.”
(ii)
Suspension
means an action by a Federal awarding agency that temporarily withdraws Federal sponsorship under an award, pending corrective action by the recipient or pending a decision to terminate the award by the Federal awarding agency. Suspension of an award is a separate action from suspension under Federal agency regulations implementing E.O.s 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.”
(jj)
Termination
means the cancellation of Federal sponsorship, in whole or in part, under an agreement at any time prior to the date of completion.
(kk)
Third party in-kind contributions
means the value of noncash contributions provided by non-Federal third parties. Third party in-kind contributions may be in the form of real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, and the value of goods and services directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to the project or program.
(ll)
Unliquidated obligations, for financial reports prepared on a cash basis,
means the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient that have not been paid. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, they represent the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient for which an outlay has not been recorded.
(mm)
Unobligated balance
means the portion of the funds authorized by the Federal awarding agency that has not been obligated by the recipient and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized.
(nn)
Unrecovered indirect cost
means the difference between the amount awarded and the amount which could have been awarded under the recipient's approved negotiated indirect cost rate.
(oo)
Working capital advance
means a procedure where by funds are advanced to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for a given initial period.
§ 105-72.102
Effect on other issuances.
For awards subject to this regulation, all administrative requirements of codified program regulations, program manuals, handbooks and other nonregulatory materials which are inconsistent with the requirements of this regulation shall be superseded, except to the extent they are required by statute, or authorized in accordance with the deviations provision in § 105-72.103.
§ 105-72.103
Deviations.
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) may grant exceptions for classes of grants or recipients subject to the requirements of this regulation when exceptions are not prohibited by statute. However, in the interest of maximum uniformity, exceptions from the requirements of this regulation shall be permitted only in unusual circumstances. Federal awarding agencies
may apply more restrictive requirements to a class of recipients when approved by OMB. Federal awarding agencies may apply less restrictive requirements when awarding small awards, except for those requirements which are statutory. Exceptions on a case-by-case basis may also be made by Federal awarding agencies.
§ 105-72.104
Subawards.
Unless sections of this regulation specifically exclude subrecipients from coverage, the provisions of this regulation shall be applied to subrecipients performing work under awards if such subrecipients are institutions of higher education, hospitals or other non-profit organizations. State and local government subrecipients are subject to the provisions of regulations implementing the grants management common rule, “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments,” 41 CFR 105-71.

# Subpart 105-72.2—Pre-Award Requirements
§ 105-72.200
Purpose.
Sections 105-72.201 through 105-72.207 prescribes forms and instructions and other pre-award matters to be used in applying for Federal awards.
§ 105-72.201
Pre-award policies.
(a)
Use of grants and cooperative agreements, and contracts.
In each instance, the Federal awarding agency shall decide on the appropriate award instrument (i.e., grant, cooperative agreement, or contract). The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. 6301-08) governs the use of grants, cooperative agreements and contracts. A grant or cooperative agreement shall be used only when the principal purpose of a transaction is to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute. The statutory criterion for choosing between grants and cooperative agreements is that for the latter, “substantial involvement is expected between the executive agency and the State, local government, or other recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated in the agreement.” Contracts shall be used when the principal purpose is acquisition of property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government.
(b)
Public notice and priority setting.
Federal awarding agencies shall notify the public of its intended funding priorities for discretionary grant programs, unless funding priorities are established by Federal statute.
§ 105-72.202
Forms for applying for Federal assistance.
(a) Federal awarding agencies shall comply with the applicable report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320, “Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public,” with regard to all forms used by the Federal awarding agency in place of or as a supplement to the Standard Form 424 (SF-424) series.
(b) Applicants shall use the SF-424 series or those forms and instructions prescribed by the Federal awarding agency.
(c) For Federal programs covered by E.O. 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,” the applicant shall complete the appropriate sections of the SF-424 (Application for Federal Assistance) indicating whether the application was subject to review by the State Single Point of Contact (SPOC). The name and address of the SPOC for a particular State can be obtained from the Federal awarding agency or the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. The SPOC shall advise the applicant whether the program for which application is made has been selected by that State for review.
(d) Federal awarding agencies that do not use the SF-424 form should indicate whether the application is subject to review by the State under E.O. 12372.
§ 105-72.203
Debarment and suspension.
Federal awarding agencies and recipients shall comply with the nonprocurement debarment and suspension common rule implementing E.O.s 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.” This common rule restricts subawards and contracts with certain parties that are debarred, suspended or otherwise excluded from or ineligible
for participation in Federal assistance programs or activities.
§ 105-72.204
Special award conditions.
If an applicant or recipient:
(a) Has a history of poor performance,
(b) Is not financially stable,
(c) Has a management system that does not meet the standards prescribed in this regulation,
(d) Has not conformed to the terms and conditions of a previous award, or
(e) Is not otherwise responsible;
Federal awarding agencies may impose additional requirements as needed, provided that such applicant or recipient is notified in writing as to: the nature of the additional requirements, the reason why the additional requirements are being imposed, the nature of the corrective action needed, the time allowed for completing the corrective actions, and the method for requesting reconsideration of the additional requirements imposed. Any special conditions shall be promptly removed once the conditions that prompted them have been corrected.
§ 105-72.205
Metric system of measurement.
The Metric Conversion Act, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act (15 U.S.C. 205) declares that the metric system is the preferred measurement system for U.S. trade and commerce. The Act requires each Federal agency to establish a date or dates in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, when the metric system of measurement will be used in the agency's procurements, grants, and other business-related activities. Metric implementation may take longer where the use of the system is initially impractical or likely to cause significant inefficiencies in the accomplishment of federally-funded activities. Federal awarding agencies shall follow the provisions of E.O. 12770, “Metric Usage in Federal Government Programs.”
§ 105-72.206
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (Pub. L. 94-580 codified at 42 U.S.C. 6962), any State agency or agency of a political subdivision of a State which is using appropriated Federal funds must comply with section 6002. Section 6002 requires that preference be given in procurement programs to the purchase of specific products containing recycled materials identified in guidelines developed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (40 CFR parts 247 through 254). Accordingly, State and local institutions of higher education, hospitals, and non-profit organizations that receive direct Federal awards or other Federal funds shall give preference in their procurement programs funded with Federal funds to the purchase of recycled products pursuant to the EPA guidelines.
§ 105-72.207
Certifications and representations.
Unless prohibited by statute or codified regulation, each Federal awarding agency is authorized and encouraged to allow recipients to submit certifications and representations required by statute, executive order, or regulation on an annual basis, if the recipients have ongoing and continuing relationships with the agency. Annual certifications and representations shall be signed by responsible officials with the authority to ensure recipients' compliance with the pertinent requirements.

# Subpart 105-72.30—Post-Award Requirements/Financial and Program Management
§ 105-72.300
Purpose of financial and program management.
Sections 105-72.301 through 105-72.308 prescribe standards for financial management systems, methods for making payments and rules for: satisfying cost sharing and matching requirements, accounting for program income, budget revision approvals, making audits, determining allowability of cost, and establishing fund availability.
§ 105-72.301
Standards for financial management systems.
(a) Federal awarding agencies shall require recipients to relate financial data to performance data and develop unit cost information whenever practical.
(b) Recipients' financial management systems shall provide for the following.
(1) Accurate, current and complete disclosure of the financial results of each federally-sponsored project or program in accordance with the reporting requirements set forth in § 105-72.602. If a Federal awarding agency requires reporting on an accrual basis from a recipient that maintains its records on other than an accrual basis, the recipient shall not be required to establish an accrual accounting system. These recipients may develop such accrual data for its reports on the basis of an analysis of the documentation on hand.
(2) Records that identify adequately the source and application of funds for federally-sponsored activities. These records shall contain information pertaining to Federal awards, authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, outlays, income and interest.
(3) Effective control over and accountability for all funds, property and other assets. Recipients shall adequately safeguard all such assets and assure they are used solely for authorized purposes.
(4) Comparison of outlays with budget amounts for each award. Whenever appropriate, financial information should be related to performance and unit cost data.
(5) Written procedures to minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds to the recipient from the U.S. Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants or payments by other means for program purposes by the recipient. To the extent that the provisions of the Cash Management Improvement Act (CMIA) (Pub. L. 101-453) govern, payment methods of State agencies, instrumentalities, and fiscal agents shall be consistent with CMIA Treasury-State Agreements or the CMIA default procedures codified at 31 CFR part 205, “Withdrawal of Cash from the Treasury for Advances under Federal Grant and Other Programs.”
(6) Written procedures for determining the reasonableness, allocability and allowability of costs in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Federal cost principles and the terms and conditions of the award.
(7) Accounting records including cost accounting records that are supported by source documentation.
(c) Where the Federal Government guarantees or insures the repayment of money borrowed by the recipient, the Federal awarding agency, at its discretion, may require adequate bonding and insurance if the bonding and insurance requirements of the recipient are not deemed adequate to protect the interest of the Federal Government.
(d) The Federal awarding agency may require adequate fidelity bond coverage where the recipient lacks sufficient coverage to protect the Federal Government's interest.
(e) Where bonds are required in the situations described above, the bonds shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties, as prescribed in 31 CFR part 223, “Surety Companies Doing Business with the United States.”
§ 105-72.302
Payment.
(a) Payment methods shall minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the United States Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants, or payment by other means by the recipients. Payment methods of State agencies or instrumentalities shall be consistent with Treasury-State CMIA agreements or default procedures codified at 31 CFR part 205.
(b)(1) Recipients are to be paid in advance, provided they maintain or demonstrate the willingness to maintain:
(i) Written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and disbursement by the recipient, and
(ii) Financial management systems that meet the standards for fund control and accountability as established in § 105-72.301.
(2) Cash advances to a recipient organization shall be limited to the minimum amounts needed and be timed to be in accordance with the actual, immediate cash requirements of the recipient organization in carrying out the purpose of the approved program or project. The timing and amount of cash
advances shall be as close as is administratively feasible to the actual disbursements by the recipient organization for direct program or project costs and the proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs.
(c) Whenever possible, advances shall be consolidated to cover anticipated cash needs for all awards made by the Federal awarding agency to the recipient.
(1) Advance payment mechanisms include, but are not limited to, Treasury check and electronic funds transfer.
(2) Advance payment mechanisms are subject to 31 CFR part 205.
(3) Recipients shall be authorized to submit requests for advances and reimbursements at least monthly when electronic fund transfers are not used.
(d) Requests for Treasury check advance payment shall be submitted on SF-270, “Request for Advance or Reimbursement,” or other forms as may be authorized by OMB. This form is not to be used when Treasury check advance payments are made to the recipient automatically through the use of a predetermined payment schedule or if precluded by special Federal awarding agency instructions for electronic funds transfer.
(e) Reimbursement is the preferred method when the requirements in paragraph (b) cannot be met. Federal awarding agencies may also use this method on any construction agreement, or if the major portion of the construction project is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans, and the Federal assistance constitutes a minor portion of the project.
(1) When the reimbursement method is used, the Federal awarding agency shall make payment within 30 days after receipt of the billing, unless the billing is improper.
(2) Recipients shall be authorized to submit request for reimbursement at least monthly when electronic funds transfers are not used.
(f) If a recipient cannot meet the criteria for advance payments and the Federal awarding agency has determined that reimbursement is not feasible because the recipient lacks sufficient working capital, the Federal awarding agency may provide cash on a working capital advance basis. Under this procedure, the Federal awarding agency shall advance cash to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for an initial period generally geared to the awardee's disbursing cycle. Thereafter, the Federal awarding agency shall reimburse the recipient for its actual cash disbursements. The working capital advance method of payment shall not be used for recipients unwilling or unable to provide timely advances to their subrecipient to meet the subrecipient's actual cash disbursements.
(g) To the extent available, recipients shall disburse funds available from repayments to and interest earned on a revolving fund, program income, rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional cash payments.
(h) Unless otherwise required by statute, Federal awarding agencies shall not withhold payments for proper charges made by recipients at any time during the project period unless paragraphs (h)(1) or (2) of this section apply.
(1) A recipient has failed to comply with the project objectives, the terms and conditions of the award, or Federal reporting requirements.
(2) The recipient or subrecipient is delinquent in a debt to the United States as defined in OMB Circular A-129, “Managing Federal Credit Programs.” Under such conditions, the Federal awarding agency may, upon reasonable notice, inform the recipient that payments shall not be made for obligations incurred after a specified date until the conditions are corrected or the indebtedness to the Federal Government is liquidated.
(i) Standards governing the use of banks and other institutions as depositories of funds advanced under awards are as follows:
(1) Except for situations described in paragraph (i)(2), Federal awarding agencies shall not require separate depository accounts for funds provided to a recipient or establish any eligibility requirements for depositories for funds provided to a recipient. However, recipients must be able to account for
the receipt, obligation and expenditure of funds.
(2) Advances of Federal funds shall be deposited and maintained in insured accounts whenever possible.
(j) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for women-owned and minority-owned business enterprises, recipients shall be encouraged to use womenowned and minority-owned banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by women or minority group members).
(k) Recipients shall maintain advances of Federal funds in interest bearing accounts, unless paragraph (k)(1), (2) or (3) of this section apply.
(1) The recipient receives less than $120,000 in Federal awards per year.
(2) The best reasonably available interest bearing account would not be expected to earn interest in excess of $250 per year on Federal cash balances.
(3) The depository would require an average or minimum balance so high that it would not be feasible within the expected Federal and non-Federal cash resources.
(l) For those entities where CMIA and its implementing regulations do not apply, interest earned on Federal advances deposited in interest bearing accounts shall be remitted annually to Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, P.O. Box 6021, Rockville, MD 20852. Interest amounts up to $250 per year may be retained by the recipient for administrative expense. State universities and hospitals shall comply with CMIA, as it pertains to interest. If an entity subject to CMIA uses its own funds to pay pre-award costs for discretionary awards without prior written approval from the Federal awarding agency, it waives its right to recover the interest under CMIA.
(m) Except as noted elsewhere in this regulation, only the following forms shall be authorized for the recipients in requesting advances and reimbursements. Federal agencies shall not require more than an original and two copies of these forms.
(1)
SF-270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement.
Each Federal awarding agency shall adopt the SF-270 as a standard form for all nonconstruction programs when electronic funds transfer or predetermined advance methods are not used. Federal awarding agencies, however, have the option of using this form for construction programs in lieu of the SF-271, “Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.”
(2)
SF-271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.
Each Federal awarding agency shall adopt the SF-271 as the standard form to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. However, a Federal awarding agency may substitute the SF-270 when the Federal awarding agency determines that it provides adequate information to meet Federal needs.
§ 105-72.303
Cost sharing or matching.
(a) All contributions, including cash and third party in-kind, shall be accepted as part of the recipient's cost sharing or matching when such contributions meet all of the following criteria.
(1) Are verifiable from the recipient's records.
(2) Are not included as contributions for any other federally-assisted project or program.
(3) Are necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives.
(4) Are allowable under the applicable cost principles.
(5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another award, except where authorized by Federal statute to be used for cost sharing or matching.
(6) Are provided for in the approved budget when required by the Federal awarding agency.
(7) Conform to other provisions of this regulation, as applicable.
(b) Unrecovered indirect costs may be included as part of cost sharing or matching only with the prior approval of the Federal awarding agency.
(c) Values for recipient contributions of services and property shall be established in accordance with the applicable cost principles. If a Federal awarding agency authorizes recipients to donate buildings or land for construction/facilities acquisition projects or long-term use, the value of the donated property for cost sharing or matching
shall be the lesser of paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) The certified value of the remaining life of the property recorded in the recipient's accounting records at the time of donation.
(2) The current fair market value. However, when there is sufficient justification, the Federal awarding agency may approve the use of the current fair market value of the donated property, even if it exceeds the certified value at the time of donation to the project.
(d) Volunteer services furnished by professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor may be counted as cost sharing or matching if the service is an integral and necessary part of an approved project or program. Rates for volunteer services shall be consistent with those paid for similar work in the recipient's organization. In those instances in which the required skills are not found in the recipient organization, rates shall be consistent with those paid for similar work in the labor market in which the recipient competes for the kind of services involved. In either case, paid fringe benefits that are reasonable, allowable, and allocable may be included in the valuation.
(e) When an employer other than the recipient furnishes the services of an employee, these services shall be valued at the employee's regular rate of pay (plus an amount of fringe benefits that are reasonable, allowable, and allocable, but exclusive of overhead costs), provided these services are in the same skill for which the employee is normally paid.
(f) Donated supplies may include such items as expendable equipment, office supplies, laboratory supplies or workshop and classroom supplies. Value assessed to donated supplies included in the cost sharing or matching share shall be reasonable and shall not exceed the fair market value of the property at the time of the donation.
(g) The method used for determining cost sharing or matching for donated equipment, buildings and land for which title passes to the recipient may differ according to the purpose of the award, if paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section apply.
(1) If the purpose of the award is to assist the recipient in the acquisition of equipment, buildings or land, the total value of the donated property may be claimed as cost sharing or matching.
(2) If the purpose of the award is to support activities that require the use of equipment, buildings or land, normally only depreciation or use charges for equipment and buildings may be made. However, the full value of equipment or other capital assets and fair rental charges for land may be allowed, provided that the Federal awarding agency has approved the charges.
(h) The value of donated property shall be determined in accordance with the usual accounting policies of the recipient, with the following qualifications.
(1) The value of donated land and buildings shall not exceed its fair market value at the time of donation to the recipient as established by an independent appraiser (e.g., certified real property appraiser or General Services Administration representative) and certified by a responsible official of the recipient.
(2) The value of donated equipment shall not exceed the fair market value of equipment of the same age and condition at the time of donation.
(3) The value of donated space shall not exceed the fair rental value of comparable space as established by an independent appraisal of comparable space and facilities in a privately-owned building in the same locality.
(4) The value of loaned equipment shall not exceed its fair rental value.
(5) The following requirements pertain to the recipient's supporting records for in-kind contributions from third parties.
(i) Volunteer services shall be documented and, to the extent feasible, supported by the same methods used by the recipient for its own employees.
(ii) The basis for determining the valuation for personal service, material, equipment, buildings and land shall be documented.
§ 105-72.304
Program income.
(a) Federal awarding agencies shall apply the standards set forth in this
section in requiring recipient organizations to account for program income related to projects financed in whole or in part with Federal funds.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, program income earned during the project period shall be retained by the recipient and, in accordance with Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, shall be used in one or more of the ways listed in the following.
(1) Added to funds committed to the project by the Federal awarding agency and recipient and used to further eligible project or program objectives.
(2) Used to finance the non-Federal share of the project or program.
(3) Deducted from the total project or program allowable cost in determining the net allowable costs on which the Federal share of costs is based.
(c) When an agency authorizes the disposition of program income as described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2), program income in excess of any limits stipulated shall be used in accordance with paragraph (b)(3).
(d) In the event that the Federal awarding agency does not specify in its regulations or the terms and conditions of the award how program income is to be used, paragraph (b)(3) shall apply automatically to all projects or programs except research. For awards that support research, paragraph (b)(1) shall apply automatically unless the awarding agency indicates in the terms and conditions another alternative on the award or the recipient is subject to special award conditions, as indicated in § 105-72.204.
(e) Unless Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government regarding program income earned after the end of the project period.
(f) If authorized by Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, costs incident to the generation of program income may be deducted from gross income to determine program income, provided these costs have not been charged to the award.
(g) Proceeds from the sale of property shall be handled in accordance with the requirements of the Property Standards (See §§ 105-72.400 through 105-72.407).
(h) Unless Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and condition of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government with respect to program income earned from license fees and royalties for copyrighted material, patents, patent applications, trademarks, and inventions produced under an award. However, Patent and Trademark Amendments (35 U.S.C. 18) apply to inventions made under an experimental, developmental, or research award.
§ 105-72.305
Revision of budget and program plans.
(a) The budget plan is the financial expression of the project or program as approved during the award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share, or only the Federal share, depending upon Federal awarding agency requirements. It shall be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate.
(b) Recipients are required to report deviations from budget and program plans, and request prior approvals for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section.
(c) For nonconstruction awards, recipients shall request prior approvals from Federal awarding agencies for one or more of the following program or budget related reasons.
(1) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval).
(2) Change in a key person specified in the application or award document.
(3) The absence for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in time devoted to the project, by the approved project director or principal investigator.
(4) The need for additional Federal funding.
(5) The transfer of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb increases in direct costs, or vice versa, if approval is required by the Federal awarding agency.
(6) The inclusion, unless waived by the Federal awarding agency, of costs that require prior approval in accordance with OMB Circular A-21, “Cost Principles for Institutions of Higher Education,” OMB Circular A-122, “Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations,” or 45 CFR part 74 appendix E, “Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals,” or 48 CFR part 31, “Contract Cost Principles and Procedures,” as applicable.
(7) The transfer of funds allotted for training allowances (direct payment to trainees) to other categories of expense.
(8) Unless described in the application and funded in the approved awards, the subaward, transfer or contracting out of any work under an award. This provision does not apply to the purchase of supplies, material, equipment or general support services.
(d) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless a deviation has been approved by OMB.
(e) Except for requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(4) of this section, Federal awarding agencies are authorized, at their option, to waive cost-related and administrative prior written approvals required by this regulation and OMB Circulars A-21 and A-122. Such waivers may include authorizing recipients to do any one or more of the following.
(1) Incur pre-award costs 90 calendar days prior to award or more than 90 calendar days with the prior approval of the Federal awarding agency. All pre-award costs are incurred at the recipient's risk (i.e., the Federal awarding agency is under no obligation to reimburse such costs if for any reason the recipient does not receive an award or if the award is less than anticipated and inadequate to cover such costs).
(2) Initiate a one-time extension of the expiration date of the award of up to 12 months unless one or more of the following conditions apply. For one-time extensions, the recipient must notify the Federal awarding agency in writing with the supporting reasons and revised expiration date at least 10 days before the expiration date specified in the award. This one-time extension may not be exercised merely for the purpose of using unobligated balances.
(i) The terms and conditions of award prohibit the extension.
(ii) The extension requires additional Federal funds.
(iii) The extension involves any change in the approved objectives or scope of the project.
(3) Carry forward unobligated balances to subsequent funding periods.
(4) For awards that support research, unless the Federal awarding agency provides otherwise in the award or in the agency's regulations, the prior approval requirements described in paragraph (e) are automatically waived (i.e., recipients need not obtain such prior approvals) unless one of the conditions included in paragraph (e)(2) applies.
(f) The Federal awarding agency may, at its option, restrict the transfer of funds among direct cost categories or programs, functions and activities for awards in which the Federal share of the project exceeds $100,000 and the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds or is expected to exceed 10 percent of the total budget as last approved by the Federal awarding agency. No Federal awarding agency shall permit a transfer that would cause any Federal appropriation or part thereof to be used for purposes other than those consistent with the original intent of the appropriation.
(g) All other changes to nonconstruction budgets, except for the changes described in paragraph (j), do not require prior approval.
(h) For construction awards, recipients shall request prior written approval promptly from Federal awarding agencies for budget revisions whenever paragraphs (h)(1), (2) or (3) of this section apply.
(1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the project or program.
(2) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project.
(3) A revision is desired which involves specific costs for which prior written approval requirements may be imposed consistent with applicable
OMB cost principles listed in § 105-72.307.
(i) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless a deviation has been approved by OMB.
(j) When a Federal awarding agency makes an award that provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, the Federal awarding agency may require the recipient to request prior approval from the Federal awarding agency before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported.
(k) For both construction and nonconstruction awards, Federal awarding agencies shall require recipients to notify the Federal awarding agency in writing promptly whenever the amount of Federal authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the recipient for the project period by more than $5000 or five percent of the Federal award, whichever is greater. This notification shall not be required if an application for additional funding is submitted for a continuation award.
(l) When requesting approval for budget revisions, recipients shall use the budget forms that were used in the application unless the Federal awarding agency indicates a letter of request suffices.
(m) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, Federal awarding agencies shall review the request and notify the recipient whether the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, the Federal awarding agency shall inform the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect the decision.
§ 105-72.306
Non-Federal audits.
(a) Recipients and subrecipients that are institutions of higher education or other non-profit organizations (including hospitals) shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507) and revised OMB Circular A-133, “Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations.”
(b) State and local governments shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507) and revised OMB Circular A-133, “Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations.”
(c) For-profit hospitals not covered by the audit provisions of revised OMB Circular A-133 shall be subject to the audit requirements of the Federal awarding agencies.
(d) Commercial organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements of the Federal awarding agency or the prime recipient as incorporated into the award document.
[59 FR 47268, Sept. 15, 1994, as amended at 62 FR 45939, 45944, Aug. 29, 1997]
§ 105-72.307
Allowable costs.
For each kind of recipient, there is a set of Federal principles for determining allowable costs. Allowability of costs shall be determined in accordance with the cost principles applicable to the entity incurring the costs. Thus, allowability of costs incurred by State, local or federally-recognized Indian tribal governments is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-87, “Cost Principles for State and Local Governments.” The allowability of costs incurred by non-profit organizations is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-122, “Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations.” The allowability of costs incurred by institutions of higher education is determined in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-21, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.” The allowability of costs incurred by hospitals is determined in accordance with the provisions of appendix E of 45 CFR part 74, “Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals.” The allowability of costs incurred by commercial organizations and those non-profit organizations listed in Attachment C to Circular A-122 is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR part 31.
§ 105-72.308
Period of availability of funds.
Where a funding period is specified, a recipient may charge to the grant only
allowable costs resulting from obligations incurred during the funding period and any pre-award costs authorized by the Federal awarding agency.

# Subpart 105-72.40—Post-Award Requirements/Property Standards
§ 105-72.400
Purpose of property standards.
Sections 105-72.401 through 105-72.407 set forth uniform standards governing management and disposition of property furnished by the Federal Government whose cost was charged to a project supported by a Federal award. Federal awarding agencies shall require recipients to observe these standards under awards and shall not impose additional requirements, unless specifically required by Federal statute. The recipient may use its own property management standards and procedures provided it observes the provisions of § 105-72.401 through § 105-72.407.
§ 105-72.401
Insurance coverage.
Recipients shall, at a minimum, provide the equivalent insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds as provided to property owned by the recipient. Federally-owned property need not be insured unless required by the terms and conditions of the award.
§ 105-72.402
Real property.
Each Federal awarding agency shall prescribe requirements for recipients concerning the use and disposition of real property acquired in whole or in part under awards. Unless otherwise provided by statute, such requirements, at a minimum, shall contain the following.
(a) Title to real property shall vest in the recipient subject to the condition that the recipient shall use the real property for the authorized purpose of the project as long as it is needed and shall not encumber the property without approval of the Federal awarding agency.
(b) The recipient shall obtain written approval by the Federal awarding agency for the use of real property in other federally-sponsored projects when the recipient determines that the property is no longer needed for the purpose of the original project. Use in other projects shall be limited to those under federally-sponsored projects (i.e., awards) or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the Federal awarding agency.
(c) When the real property is no longer needed as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b), the recipient shall request disposition instructions from the Federal awarding agency or its successor Federal awarding agency. The Federal awarding agency shall observe one or more of the following disposition instructions.
(1) The recipient may be permitted to retain title without further obligation to the Federal Government after it compensates the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project.
(2) The recipient may be directed to sell the property under guidelines provided by the Federal awarding agency and pay the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project (after deducting actual and reasonable selling and fix-up expenses, if any, from the sales proceeds). When the recipient is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures shall be established that provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return.
(3) The recipient may be directed to transfer title to the property to the Federal Government or to an eligible third party provided that, in such cases, the recipient shall be entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the property.
§ 105-72.403
Federally-owned and exempt property.
(a)
Federally-owned property.
(1) Title to federally-owned property remains vested in the Federal Government. Recipients shall submit annually an inventory listing of federally-owned property in their custody to the Federal awarding agency. Upon completion of the award or when the property is no
longer needed, the recipient shall report the property to the Federal awarding agency for further Federal agency utilization.
(2) If the Federal awarding agency has no further need for the property, it shall be declared excess and reported to the General Services Administration, unless the Federal awarding agency has statutory authority to dispose of the property by alternative methods (e.g., the authority provided by the Federal Technology Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 3710 (I)) to donate research equipment to educational and non-profit organizations in accordance with E.O. 12821, “Improving Mathematics and Science Education in Support of the National Education Goals.”) Appropriate instructions shall be issued to the recipient by the Federal awarding agency.
(b)
Exempt property.
When statutory authority exists, the Federal awarding agency has the option to vest title to property acquired with Federal funds in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government and under conditions the Federal awarding agency considers appropriate. Such property is “exempt property.” Should a Federal awarding agency not establish conditions, title to exempt property upon acquisition shall vest in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government.
§ 105-72.404
Equipment.
(a) Title to equipment acquired by a recipient with Federal funds shall vest in the recipient, subject to conditions of this section.
(b) The recipient shall not use equipment acquired with Federal funds to provide services to non-Federal outside organizations for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services, unless specifically authorized by Federal statute, for as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the equipment.
(c) The recipient shall use the equipment in the project or program for which it was acquired as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by Federal funds and shall not encumber the property without approval of the Federal awarding agency. When no longer needed for the original project or program, the recipient shall use the equipment in connection with its other federally-sponsored activities, in the following order of priority:
(1) Activities sponsored by the Federal awarding agency which funded the original project, then
(2) Activities sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies.
(d) During the time that equipment is used on the project or program for which it was acquired, the recipient shall make it available for use on other projects or programs if such other use will not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the equipment was originally acquired. First preference for such other use shall be given to other projects or programs sponsored by the Federal awarding agency that financed the equipment; second preference shall be given to projects or programs sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies. If the equipment is owned by the Federal Government, use on other activities not sponsored by the Federal Government shall be permissible if authorized by the Federal awarding agency. User charges shall be treated as program income.
(e) When acquiring replacement equipment, the recipient may use the equipment to be replaced as trade-in or sell the equipment and use the proceeds to offset the costs of the replacement equipment subject to the approval of the Federal awarding agency.
(f) The recipient's property management standards for equipment acquired with Federal funds and federally-owned equipment shall include all of the following.
(1) Equipment records shall be maintained accurately and shall include the following information.
(i) A description of the equipment.
(ii) Manufacturer's serial number, model number, Federal stock number, national stock number, or other identification number.
(iii) Source of the equipment, including the award number.
(iv) Whether title vests in the recipient or the Federal Government.
(v) Acquisition date (or date received, if the equipment was furnished by the Federal Government) and cost.
(vi) Information from which one can calculate the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the equipment (not applicable to equipment furnished by the Federal Government).
(vii) Location and condition of the equipment and the date the information was reported.
(viii) Unit acquisition cost.
(ix) Ultimate disposition data, including date of disposal and sales price or the method used to determine current fair market value where a recipient compensates the Federal awarding agency for its share.
(2) Equipment owned by the Federal Government shall be identified to indicate Federal ownership.
(3) A physical inventory of equipment shall be taken and the results reconciled with the equipment records at least once every two years. Any differences between quantities determined by the physical inspection and those shown in the accounting records shall be investigated to determine the causes of the difference. The recipient shall, in connection with the inventory, verify the existence, current utilization, and continued need for the equipment.
(4) A control system shall be in effect to insure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft of the equipment. Any loss, damage, or theft of equipment shall be investigated and fully documented; if the equipment was owned by the Federal Government, the recipient shall promptly notify the Federal awarding agency.
(5) Adequate maintenance procedures shall be implemented to keep the equipment in good condition.
(6) Where the recipient is authorized or required to sell the equipment, proper sales procedures shall be established which provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return.
(g) When the recipient no longer needs the equipment, the equipment may be used for other activities in accordance with the following standards. For equipment with a current per unit fair market value of $5000 or more, the recipient may retain the equipment for other uses provided that compensation is made to the original Federal awarding agency or its successor. The amount of compensation shall be computed by applying the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program to the current fair market value of the equipment. If the recipient has no need for the equipment, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from the Federal awarding agency. The Federal awarding agency shall determine whether the equipment can be used to meet the agency's requirements. If no requirement exists within that agency, the availability of the equipment shall be reported to the General Services Administration by the Federal awarding agency to determine whether a requirement for the equipment exists in other Federal agencies. The Federal awarding agency shall issue instructions to the recipient no later than 120 calendar days after the recipient's request and the following procedures shall govern.
(1) If so instructed or if disposition instructions are not issued within 120 calendar days after the recipient's request, the recipient shall sell the equipment and reimburse the Federal awarding agency an amount computed by applying to the sales proceeds the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program. However, the recipient shall be permitted to deduct and retain from the Federal share $500 or ten percent of the proceeds, whichever is less, for the recipient's selling and handling expenses.
(2) If the recipient is instructed to ship the equipment elsewhere, the recipient shall be reimbursed by the Federal Government by an amount which is computed by applying the percentage of the recipient's participation in the cost of the original project or program to the current fair market value of the equipment, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred.
(3) If the recipient is instructed to otherwise dispose of the equipment, the recipient shall be reimbursed by the Federal awarding agency for such costs incurred in its disposition.
(4) The Federal awarding agency may reserve the right to transfer the title to the Federal Government or to a
third party named by the Federal Government when such third party is otherwise eligible under existing statutes. Such transfer shall be subject to the following standards.
(i) The equipment shall be appropriately identified in the award or otherwise made known to the recipient in writing.
(ii) The Federal awarding agency shall issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after receipt of a final inventory. The final inventory shall list all equipment acquired with grant funds and federally-owned equipment. If the Federal awarding agency fails to issue disposition instructions within the 120 calendar day period, the recipient shall apply the standards of this section, as appropriate.
(iii) When the Federal awarding agency exercises its right to take title, the equipment shall be subject to the provisions for federally-owned equipment.
§ 105-72.405
Supplies and other expendable property.
(a) Title to supplies and other expendable property shall vest in the recipient upon acquisition. If there is a residual inventory of unused supplies exceeding $5000 in total aggregate value upon termination or completion of the project or program and the supplies are not needed for any other federally-sponsored project or program, the recipient shall retain the supplies for use on non-Federal sponsored activities or sell them, but shall, in either case, compensate the Federal Government for its share. The amount of compensation shall be computed in the same manner as for equipment.
(b) The recipient shall not use supplies acquired with Federal funds to provide services to non-Federal outside organizations for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services, unless specifically authorized by Federal statute as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the supplies.
§ 105-72.406
Intangible property.
(a) The recipient may copyright any work that is subject to copyright and was developed, or for which ownership was purchased, under an award. The Federal awarding agency(ies) reserve a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for Federal purposes, and to authorize others to do so.
(b) Recipients are subject to applicable regulations governing patents and inventions, including governmentwide regulations issued by the Department of Commerce at 37 CFR part 401, “Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements.”
(c) Unless waived by the Federal awarding agency, the Federal Government has the right to paragraph (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Obtain, reproduce, publish or otherwise use the data first produced under an award.
(2) Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such data for Federal purposes.
(d) Title to intangible property and debt instruments acquired under an award or subaward vests upon acquisition in the recipient. The recipient shall use that property for the originally-authorized purpose, and the recipient shall not encumber the property without approval of the Federal awarding agency. When no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, disposition of the intangible property shall occur in accordance with the provisions of § 105-72.404(g).
§ 105-72.407
Property trust relationship.
Real property, equipment, intangible property and debt instruments that are acquired or improved with Federal funds shall be held in trust by the recipient as trustee for the beneficiaries of the project or program under which the property was acquired or improved. Agencies may require recipients to record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property has been acquired or improved with Federal funds and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property.

# Subpart 105-72.50—Post-Award Requirements/Procurement Standards
§ 105-72.500
Purpose of procurement standards.
Sections 105-72.501 through 105-72.508 set forth standards for use by recipients in establishing procedures for the procurement of supplies and other expendable property, equipment, real property and other services with Federal funds. These standards are furnished to ensure that such materials and services are obtained in an effective manner and in compliance with the provisions of applicable Federal statutes and executive orders. No additional procurement standards or requirements shall be imposed by the Federal awarding agencies upon recipients, unless specifically required by Federal statute or executive order or approved by OMB.
§ 105-72.501
Recipient responsibilities.
The standards contained in this section do not relieve the recipient of the contractual responsibilities arising under its contract(s). The recipient is the responsible authority, without recourse to the Federal awarding agency, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in support of an award or other agreement. This includes disputes, claims, protests of award, source evaluation or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of statute are to be referred to such Federal, State or local authority as may have proper jurisdiction.
§ 105-72.502
Codes of conduct.
The recipient shall maintain written standards of conduct governing the performance of its employees engaged in the award and administration of contracts. No employee, officer, or agent shall participate in the selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by Federal funds if a real or apparent conflict of interest would be involved. Such a conflict would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for an award. The officers, employees, and agents of the recipient shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, or parties to subagreements. However, recipients may set standards for situations in which the financial interest is not substantial or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value. The standards of conduct shall provide for disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of such standards by officers, employees, or agents of the recipient.
§ 105-72.503
Competition.
All procurement transactions shall be conducted in a manner to provide, to the maximum extent practical, open and free competition. The recipient shall be alert to organizational conflicts of interest as well as noncompetitive practices among contractors that may restrict or eliminate competition or otherwise restrain trade. In order to ensure objective contractor performance and eliminate unfair competitive advantage, contractors that develop or draft specifications, requirements, statements of work, invitations for bids and/or requests for proposals shall be excluded from competing for such procurements. Awards shall be made to the bidder or offeror whose bid or offer is responsive to the solicitation and is most advantageous to the recipient, price, quality and other factors considered. Solicitations shall clearly set forth all requirements that the bidder or offeror shall fulfill in order for the bid or offer to be evaluated by the recipient. Any and all bids or offers may be rejected when it is in the recipient's interest to do so.
§ 105-72.504
Procurement procedures.
(a) All recipients shall establish written procurement procedures. These procedures shall provide for, at a minimum, that paragraphs (a)(1), (2) and (3) of this section apply.
(1) Recipients avoid purchasing unnecessary items.
(2) Where appropriate, an analysis is made of lease and purchase alternatives to determine which would be
the most economical and practical procurement for the Federal Government.
(3) Solicitations for goods and services provide for all of the following.
(i) A clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product or service to be procured. In competitive procurements, such a description shall not contain features which unduly restrict competition.
(ii) Requirements which the bidder/offeror must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
(iii) A description, whenever practicable, of technical requirements in terms of functions to be performed or performance required, including the range of acceptable characteristics or minimum acceptable standards.
(iv) The specific features of “brand name or equal” descriptions that bidders are required to meet when such items are included in the solicitation.
(v) The acceptance, to the extent practicable and economically feasible, of products and services dimensioned in the metric system of measurement.
(vi) Preference, to the extent practicable and economically feasible, for products and services that conserve natural resources and protect the environment and are energy efficient.
(b) Positive efforts shall be made by recipients to utilize small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises, whenever possible. Recipients of Federal awards shall take all of the following steps to further this goal.
(1) Ensure that small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises are used to the fullest extent practicable.
(2) Make information on forthcoming opportunities available and arrange timeframes for purchases and contracts to encourage and facilitate participation by small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises.
(3) Consider in the contract process whether firms competing for larger contracts intend to subcontract with small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises.
(4) Encourage contracting with consortiums of small businesses, minority-owned firms and women's business enterprises when a contract is too large for one of these firms to handle individually.
(5) Use the services and assistance, as appropriate, of such organizations as the Small Business Administration and the Department of Commerce's Minority Business Development Agency in the solicitation and utilization of small businesses, minority-owned firms and women's business enterprises.
(c) The type of procuring instruments used (e.g., fixed price contracts, cost reimbursable contracts, purchase orders, and incentive contracts) shall be determined by the recipient but shall be appropriate for the particular procurement and for promoting the best interest of the program or project involved. The “cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost” or “percentage of construction cost” methods of contracting shall not be used.
(d) Contracts shall be made only with responsible contractors who possess the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed procurement. Consideration shall be given to such matters as contractor integrity, record of past performance, financial and technical resources or accessibility to other necessary resources. In certain circumstances, contracts with certain parties are restricted by agencies' implementation of E.O.s 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.”
(e) Recipients shall, on request, make available for the Federal awarding agency, pre-award review and procurement documents, such as request for proposals or invitations for bids, independent cost estimates, etc., when any of the following conditions apply.
(1) A recipient's procurement procedures or operation fails to comply with the procurement standards in the Federal awarding agency's implementation of this regulation.
(2) The procurement is expected to exceed the small purchase threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403 (11) (currently $25,000) and is to be awarded without competition or only one bid or offer is received in response to a solicitation.
(3) The procurement, which is expected to exceed the small purchase threshold, specifies a “brand name” product.
(4) The proposed award over the small purchase threshold is to be awarded to other than the apparent low bidder under a sealed bid procurement.
(5) A proposed contract modification changes the scope of a contract or increases the contract amount by more than the amount of the small purchase threshold.
§ 105-72.505
Cost and price analysis.
Some form of cost or price analysis shall be made and documented in the procurement files in connection with every procurement action. Price analysis may be accomplished in various ways, including the comparison of price quotations submitted, market prices and similar indicia, together with discounts. Cost analysis is the review and evaluation of each element of cost to determine reasonableness, allocability and allowability.
§ 105-72.506
Procurement records.
Procurement records and files for purchases in excess of the small purchase threshold shall include the following at a minimum:
(a) Basis for contractor selection,
(b) Justification for lack of competition when competitive bids or offers are not obtained, and
(c) Basis for award cost or price.
§ 105-72.507
Contract administration.
A system for contract administration shall be maintained to ensure contractor conformance with the terms, conditions and specifications of the contract and to ensure adequate and timely follow up of all purchases. Recipients shall evaluate contractor performance and document, as appropriate, whether contractors have met the terms, conditions and specifications of the contract.
§ 105-72.508
Contract provisions.
The recipient shall include, in addition to provisions to define a sound and complete agreement, the following provisions in all contracts. The following provisions shall also be applied to subcontracts.
(a) Contracts in excess of the small purchase threshold shall contain contractual provisions or conditions that allow for administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances in which a contractor violates or breaches the contract terms, and provide for such remedial actions as may be appropriate.
(b) All contracts in excess of the small purchase threshold shall contain suitable provisions for termination by the recipient, including the manner by which termination shall be effected and the basis for settlement. In addition, such contracts shall describe conditions under which the contract may be terminated for default as well as conditions where the contract may be terminated because of circumstances beyond the control of the contractor.
(c) Except as otherwise required by statute, an award that requires the contracting (or subcontracting) for construction or facility improvements shall provide for the recipient to follow its own requirements relating to bid guarantees, performance bonds, and payment bonds unless the construction contract or subcontract exceeds $100,000. For those contracts or subcontracts exceeding $100,000, the Federal awarding agency may accept the bonding policy and requirements of the recipient, provided the Federal awarding agency has made a determination that the Federal Government's interest is adequately protected. If such a determination has not been made, the minimum requirements shall be as follows.
(1) A bid guarantee from each bidder equivalent to five percent of the bid price. The “bid guarantee” shall consist of a firm commitment such as a bid bond, certified check, or other negotiable instrument accompanying a bid as assurance that the bidder shall, upon acceptance of his bid, execute such contractual documents as may be required within the time specified.
(2) A performance bond on the part of the contractor for 100 percent of the contract price. A “performance bond” is one executed in connection with a contract to secure fulfillment of all the
contractor's obligations under such contract.
(3) A payment bond on the part of the contractor for 100 percent of the contract price. A “payment bond” is one executed in connection with a contract to assure payment as required by statute of all persons supplying labor and material in the execution of the work provided for in the contract.
(4) Where bonds are required in the situations described herein, the bonds shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties pursuant to 31 CFR part 223, “Surety Companies Doing Business with the United States.”
(d) All negotiated contracts (except those for less than the small purchase threshold) awarded by recipients shall include a provision to the effect that the recipient, the Federal awarding agency, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the contractor which are directly pertinent to a specific program for the purpose of making audits, examinations, excerpts and transcriptions.
(e) All contracts, including small purchases, awarded by recipients and their contractors shall contain the procurement provisions of appendix A to this part, as applicable.

# Subpart 105-72.60—Post-Award Requirements/Reports and Records
§ 105-72.600
Purpose of reports and records.
Sections 105-72.601 through 105-72.603 set forth the procedures for monitoring and reporting on the recipient's financial and program performance and the necessary standard reporting forms. They also set forth record retention requirements.
§ 105-72.601
Monitoring and reporting program performance.
(a) Recipients are responsible for managing and monitoring each project, program, subaward, function or activity supported by the award. Recipients shall monitor subawards to ensure subrecipients have met the audit requirements as delineated in § 105-72.306.
(b) The Federal awarding agency shall prescribe the frequency with which the performance reports shall be submitted. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, performance reports shall not be required more frequently than quarterly or, less frequently than annually. Annual reports shall be due 90 calendar days after the grant year; quarterly or semiannual reports shall be due 30 days after the reporting period. The Federal awarding agency may require annual reports before the anniversary dates of multiple year awards in lieu of these requirements. The final performance reports are due 90 calendar days after the expiration or termination of the award.
(c) If inappropriate, a final technical or performance report shall not be required after completion of the project.
(d) When required, performance reports shall generally contain, for each award, brief information on each of the following.
(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments with the goals and objectives established for the period, the findings of the investigator, or both. Whenever appropriate and the output of programs or projects can be readily quantified, such quantitative data should be related to cost data for computation of unit costs.
(2) Reasons why established goals were not met, if appropriate.
(3) Other pertinent information including, when appropriate, analysis and explanation of cost overruns or high unit costs.
(e) Recipients shall not be required to submit more than the original and two copies of performance reports.
(f) Recipients shall immediately notify the Federal awarding agency of developments that have a significant impact on the award-supported activities. Also, notification shall be given in the case of problems, delays, or adverse conditions which materially impair the ability to meet the objectives of the award. This notification shall include a statement of the action taken or contemplated, and any assistance needed to resolve the situation.
(g) Federal awarding agencies may make site visits, as needed.
(h) Federal awarding agencies shall comply with clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320 when requesting performance data from recipients.
§ 105-72.602
Financial reporting.
(a) The following forms or such other forms as may be approved by OMB are authorized for obtaining financial information from recipients.
(1)
SF-269 or SF-269A, Financial Status Report.
(i) Each Federal awarding agency shall require recipients to use the SF-269 or SF-269A to report the status of funds for all nonconstruction projects or programs. A Federal awarding agency may, however, have the option of not requiring the SF-269 or SF-269A when the SF-270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement, or SF-272, Report of Federal Cash Transactions, is determined to provide adequate information to meet its needs, except that a final SF-269 or SF-269A shall be required at the completion of the project when the SF-270 is used only for advances.
(ii) The Federal awarding agency shall prescribe whether the report shall be on a cash or accrual basis. If the Federal awarding agency requires accrual information and the recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis, the recipient shall not be required to convert its accounting system, but shall develop such accrual information through best estimates based on an analysis of the documentation on hand.
(iii) The Federal awarding agency shall determine the frequency of the Financial Status Report for each project or program, considering the size and complexity of the particular project or program. However, the report shall not be required more frequently than quarterly or less frequently than annually. A final report shall be required at the completion of the agreement.
(iv) The Federal awarding agency shall require recipients to submit the SF-269 or SF-269A (an original and no more than two copies) no later than 30 days after the end of each specified reporting period for quarterly and semiannual reports, and 90 calendar days for annual and final reports. Extensions of reporting due dates may be approved by the Federal awarding agency upon request of the recipient.
(2)
SF-272, Report of Federal Cash Transactions.
(i) When funds are advanced to recipients the Federal awarding agency shall require each recipient to submit the SF-272 and, when necessary, its continuation sheet, SF-272a. The Federal awarding agency shall use this report to monitor cash advanced to recipients and to obtain disbursement information for each agreement with the recipients.
(ii) Federal awarding agencies may require forecasts of Federal cash requirements in the “Remarks” section of the report.
(iii) When practical and deemed necessary, Federal awarding agencies may require recipients to report in the “Remarks” section the amount of cash advances received in excess of three days. Recipients shall provide short narrative explanations of actions taken to reduce the excess balances.
(iv) Recipients shall be required to submit not more than the original and two copies of the SF-272, 15 calendar days following the end of each quarter. The Federal awarding agencies may require a monthly report from those recipients receiving advances totaling $1 million or more per year.
(v) Federal awarding agencies may waive the requirement for submission of the SF-272 for any one of the following reasons:
(A) When monthly advances do not exceed $25,000 per recipient, provided that such advances are monitored through other forms contained in this section;
(B) If, in the Federal awarding agency's opinion, the recipient's accounting controls are adequate to minimize excessive Federal advances; or,
(C) When the electronic payment mechanisms provide adequate data.
(b) When the Federal awarding agency needs additional information or more frequent reports, the following shall be observed.
(1) When additional information is needed to comply with legislative requirements, Federal awarding agencies shall issue instructions to require recipients to submit such information under the “Remarks” section of the reports.
(2) When a Federal awarding agency determines that a recipient's accounting system does not meet the standards in § 105-72.301, additional pertinent information to further monitor awards may be obtained upon written notice to the recipient until such time as the system is brought up to standard. The Federal awarding agency, in obtaining this information, shall comply with report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320.
(3) Federal awarding agencies are encouraged to shade out any line item on any report if not necessary.
(4) Federal awarding agencies may accept the identical information from the recipients in machine readable format or computer printouts or electronic outputs in lieu of prescribed formats.
(5) Federal awarding agencies may provide computer or electronic outputs to recipients when such expedites or contributes to the accuracy of reporting.
§ 105-72.603
Retention and access requirements for records.
(a) This section sets forth requirements for record retention and access to records for awards to recipients. Federal awarding agencies shall not impose any other record retention or access requirements upon recipients.
(b) Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to an award shall be retained for a period of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report or, for awards that are renewed quarterly or annually, from the date of the submission of the quarterly or annual financial report, as authorized by the Federal awarding agency. The only exceptions are the following.
(1) If any litigation, claim, or audit is started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved and final action taken.
(2) Records for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds shall be retained for 3 years after final disposition.
(3) When records are transferred to or maintained by the Federal awarding agency, the 3-year retention requirement is not applicable to the recipient.
(4) Indirect cost rate proposals, cost allocations plans, etc., as specified in paragraph (g) of this section.
(c) Copies of original records may be substituted for the original records if authorized by the Federal awarding agency.
(d) The Federal awarding agency shall request transfer of certain records to its custody from recipients when it determines that the records possess long term retention value. However, in order to avoid duplicate recordkeeping, a Federal awarding agency may make arrangements for recipients to retain any records that are continuously needed for joint use.
(e) The Federal awarding agency, the Inspector General, Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, have the right of timely and unrestricted access to any books, documents, papers, or other records of recipients that are pertinent to the awards, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, transcripts and copies of such documents. This right also includes timely and reasonable access to a recipient's personnel for the purpose of interview and discussion related to such documents. The rights of access in this paragraph are not limited to the required retention period, but shall last as long as records are retained.
(f) Unless required by statute, no Federal awarding agency shall place restrictions on recipients that limit public access to the records of recipients that are pertinent to an award, except when the Federal awarding agency can demonstrate that such records shall be kept confidential and would have been exempted from disclosure pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if the records had belonged to the Federal awarding agency.
(g) Indirect cost rate proposals, cost allocations plans, etc. Paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) apply to the following types of documents, and their supporting records: indirect cost rate computations or proposals, cost allocation
plans, and any similar accounting computations of the rate at which a particular group of costs is chargeable (such as computer usage chargeback rates or composite fringe benefit rates).
(1) If submitted for negotiation. If the recipient submits to the Federal awarding agency or the subrecipient submits to the recipient the proposal, plan, or other computation to form the basis for negotiation of the rate, then the 3-year retention period for its supporting records starts on the date of such submission.
(2) If not submitted for negotiation. If the recipient is not required to submit to the Federal awarding agency or the subrecipient is not required to submit to the recipient the proposal, plan, or other computation for negotiation purposes, then the 3-year retention period for the proposal, plan, or other computation and its supporting records starts at the end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) covered by the proposal, plan, or other computation.

# Subpart 105-72.70—Post-Award Requirements/Termination and Enforcement
§ 105-72.700
Purpose of termination and enforcement.
Section 105-72.701 and § 105-72.702 set forth uniform suspension, termination and enforcement procedures.
§ 105-72.701
Termination.
(a) Awards may be terminated in whole or in part only if paragraph (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section apply.
(1) By the Federal awarding agency, if a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award.
(2) By the Federal awarding agency with the consent of the recipient, in which case the two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated.
(3) By the recipient upon sending to the Federal awarding agency written notification setting forth the reasons for such termination, the effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if the Federal awarding agency determines in the case of partial termination that the reduced or modified portion of the grant will not accomplish the purposes for which the grant was made, it may terminate the grant in its entirety under either paragraphs (a) (1) or (2).
(b) If costs are allowed under an award, the responsibilities of the recipient referred to in § 105-72.801(a), including those for property management as applicable, shall be considered in the termination of the award, and provision shall be made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient after termination, as appropriate.
§ 105-72.702
Enforcement.
(a)
Remedies for noncompliance.
If a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award, whether stated in a Federal statute, regulation, assurance, application, or notice of award, the Federal awarding agency may, in addition to imposing any of the special conditions outlined in § 105-72.204, take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances.
(1) Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the recipient or more severe enforcement action by the Federal awarding agency.
(2) Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and any applicable matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance.
(3) Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award.
(4) Withhold further awards for the project or program.
(5) Take other remedies that may be legally available.
(b)
Hearings and appeals.
In taking an enforcement action, the awarding agency shall provide the recipient an opportunity for hearing, appeal, or other administrative proceeding to which the recipient is entitled under any statute or regulation applicable to the action involved.
(c)
Effects of suspension and termination.
Costs of a recipient resulting from obligations incurred by the recipient during a suspension or after
termination of an award are not allowable unless the awarding agency expressly authorizes them in the notice of suspension or termination or subsequently. Other recipient costs during suspension or after termination which are necessary and not reasonably avoidable are allowable if paragraph (c) (1) and (2) of this section apply.
(1) The costs result from obligations which were properly incurred by the recipient before the effective date of suspension or termination, are not in anticipation of it, and in the case of a termination, are noncancellable.
(2) The costs would be allowable if the award were not suspended or expired normally at the end of the funding period in which the termination takes effect.
(d)
Relationship to debarment and suspension.
The enforcement remedies identified in this section, including suspension and termination, do not preclude a recipient from being subject to debarment and suspension under E.O.s 12549 and 12689 and the Federal awarding agency implementing regulations (see § 105-72.203).

# Subpart 105-72.80—After-the-Award Requirements
§ 105-72.800
Purpose.
Sections 105-72.801 through 105-72.803 contain closeout procedures and other procedures for subsequent disallowances and adjustments.
§ 105-72.801
Closeout procedures.
(a) Recipients shall submit, within 90 calendar days after the date of completion of the award, all financial, performance, and other reports as required by the terms and conditions of the award. The Federal awarding agency may approve extensions when requested by the recipient.
(b) Unless the Federal awarding agency authorizes an extension, a recipient shall liquidate all obligations incurred under the award not later than 90 calendar days after the funding period or the date of completion as specified in the terms and conditions of the award or in agency implementing instructions.
(c) The Federal awarding agency shall make prompt payments to a recipient for allowable reimbursable costs under the award being closed out.
(d) The recipient shall promptly refund any balances of unobligated cash that the Federal awarding agency has advanced or paid and that is not authorized to be retained by the recipient for use in other projects. OMB Circular A-129 governs unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts.
(e) When authorized by the terms and conditions of the award, the Federal awarding agency shall make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received.
(f) The recipient shall account for any real and personal property acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal Government in accordance with § 105-72.401 through § 105-72.407.
(g) In the event a final audit has not been performed prior to the closeout of an award, the Federal awarding agency shall retain the right to recover an appropriate amount after fully considering the recommendations on disallowed costs resulting from the final audit.
§ 105-72.802
Subsequent adjustments and continuing responsibilities.
(a) The closeout of an award does not affect any of the following.
(1) The right of the Federal awarding agency to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review.
(2) The obligation of the recipient to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions.
(3) Audit requirements in § 105-72.306.
(4) Property management requirements in §§ 105-72.401 through 105-72.407.
(5) Records retention as required in § 105-72.603.
(b) After closeout of an award, a relationship created under an award may be modified or ended in whole or in part with the consent of the Federal awarding agency and the recipient, provided the responsibilities of the recipient referred to in § 105-72.803(a), including those for property management as applicable, are considered and provisions made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient, as appropriate.
§ 105-72.803
Collection of amounts due.
(a) Any funds paid to a recipient in excess of the amount to which the recipient is finally determined to be entitled under the terms and conditions of the award constitute a debt to the Federal Government. If not paid within a reasonable period after the demand for payment, the Federal awarding agency may reduce the debt by paragraph (a) (1), (2) or (3) of this section.
(1) Making an administrative offset against other requests for reimbursements.
(2) Withholding advance payments otherwise due to the recipient.
(3) Taking other action permitted by statute.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, the Federal awarding agency shall charge interest on an overdue debt in accordance with 4 CFR Chapter II, Federal Claims Collection Standards.
Pt. 105-72, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 105-72—Contract Provisions
All contracts, awarded by a recipient including small purchases, shall contain the following provisions as applicable:
1.
Equal Employment Opportunity
—All contracts shall contain a provision requiring compliance with E.O. 11246, “Equal Employment Opportunity,” as amended by E.O. 11375, “Amending Executive Order 11246 Relating to Equal Employment Opportunity,” and as supplemented by regulations at 41 CFR part 60, “Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor.”
2.
Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (18 U.S.C. 874 and 40 U.S.C. 276c)
—All contracts and subgrants in excess of $2000 for construction or repair awarded by recipients and subrecipients shall include a provision for compliance with the Copeland “Anti-Kickback” Act (18 U.S.C. 874), as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 3, “Contractors and Subcontractors on Public Building or Public Work Financed in Whole or in Part by Loans or Grants from the United States”). The Act provides that each contractor or subrecipient shall be prohibited from inducing, by any means, any person employed in the construction, completion, or repair of public work, to give up any part of the compensation to which he is otherwise entitled. The recipient shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Federal awarding agency.
3.
Davis-Bacon Act, as amended (40 U.S.C. 276a to a-7)
—When required by Federal program legislation, all construction contracts awarded by the recipients and subrecipients of more than $2000 shall include a provision for compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a to a-7) and as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5, “Labor Standards Provisions Applicable to Contracts Governing Federally Financed and Assisted Construction”). Under this Act, contractors shall be required to pay wages to laborers and mechanics at a rate not less than the minimum wages specified in a wage determination made by the Secretary of Labor. In addition, contractors shall be required to pay wages not less than once a week. The recipient shall place a copy of the current prevailing wage determination issued by the Department of Labor in each solicitation and the award of a contract shall be conditioned upon the acceptance of the wage determination. The recipient shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Federal awarding agency.
4.
Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-333)
—Where applicable, all contracts awarded by recipients in excess of $2000 for construction contracts and in excess of $2500 for other contracts that involve the employment of mechanics or laborers shall include a provision for compliance with Sections 102 and 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327-333), as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5). Under Section 102 of the Act, each contractor shall be required to compute the wages of every mechanic and laborer on the basis of a standard work week of 40 hours. Work in excess of the standard work week is permissible provided that the worker is compensated at a rate of not less than 1
1/2
times the basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours in the work week. Section 107 of the Act is applicable to construction work and provides that no laborer or mechanic shall be required to work in surroundings or under working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous. These requirements do not apply to the purchases of supplies or materials or articles ordinarily available on the open market, or contracts for transportation or transmission of intelligence.
5.
Rights to Inventions Made Under a Contract or Agreement
—Contracts or agreements for the performance of experimental, developmental, or research work shall provide for the rights of the Federal Government and the recipient in any resulting invention in accordance with 37 CFR part 401, “Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements,” and any implementing regulations issued by the awarding agency.
6.
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), as amended
—Contracts and subgrants of amounts in excess of
$100,000 shall contain a provision that requires the recipient to agree to comply with all applicable standards, orders or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.
). Violations shall be reported to the Federal awarding agency and the Regional Office of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
7.
Byrd Anti-Lobbying Amendment (31 U.S.C. 1352)
—Contractors who apply or bid for an award of $100,000 or more shall file the required certification. Each tier certifies to the tier above that it will not and has not used Federal appropriated funds to pay any person or organization for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member of Congress, officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with obtaining any Federal contract, grant or any other award covered by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Each tier shall also disclose any lobbying with non-Federal funds that takes place in connection with obtaining any Federal award. Such disclosures are forwarded from tier to tier up to the recipient.
8.
Debarment and Suspension (E.O.s 12549 and 12689)
—No contract shall be made to parties listed on the General Services Administration's List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement or Nonprocurement Programs in accordance with E.O.s 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.” This list contains the names of parties debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded by agencies, and contractors declared ineligible under statutory or regulatory authority other than E.O. 12549. Contractors with awards that exceed the small purchase threshold shall provide the required certification regarding its exclusion status and that of its principal employees.
Pt. 105-74

# PART 105-74—GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
105-74.100
What does this part do?
105-74.105
Does this part apply to me?
105-74.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
105-74.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
105-74.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
105-74.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
105-74.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
105-74.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
105-74.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
105-74.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
105-74.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
105-74.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
105-74.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of GSA Awarding Officials
105-74.400
What are my responsibilities as a GSA awarding official?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
105-74.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
105-74.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
105-74.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
105-74.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Subpart F—Definitions
105-74.605
Award.
105-74.610
Controlled substance.
105-74.615
Conviction.
105-74.620
Cooperative agreement.
105-74.625
Criminal drug statute.
105-74.630
Debarment.
105-74.635
Drug-free workplace.
105-74.640
Employee.
105-74.645
Federal agency or agency.
105-74.650
Grant.
105-74.655
Individual.
105-74.660
Recipient.
105-74.665
State.
105-74.670
Suspension.

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.

# Source:
68 FR 66627, 66628, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 105-74.100
What does this part do?
This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
§ 105-74.105
Does this part apply to me?
(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the General Services Administration; or
(2) A(n) GSA awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 105-74.605 and 105-74.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A(n) GSA awarding official
A, D and E.
§ 105-74.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award that the Administrator of General Services determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 105-74.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 105-74. 510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 105-74.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 105-74.205 through 105-74.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 105-74.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 105-74.230).
§ 105-74.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 105-74.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 105-74.205 be
given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 105-74.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 105-74.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 105-74.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 105-74.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the GSA awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 105-74.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 105-74.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either_
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 105-74.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each GSA award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces_
(1) To the GSA official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by GSA officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (e.g., all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the GSA awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the GSA awarding official.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 105-74.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a(n) GSA award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the GSA awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 105-74.301 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 105-74.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of GSA Awarding Officials
§ 105-74.400
What are my responsibilities as a(n) GSA awarding official?
As a(n) GSA awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 105-74.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Administrator of General Services determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 105-74.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Administrator of General Services determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 105-74.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 105-
74.500 or § 105-74.505, the General Services Administration may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 41 CFR part 105-68, for a period not to exceed five years.
[68 FR 66627, 66628, Nov. 26, 2003]
§ 105-74.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The Administrator of General Services may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the Administrator of General Services determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 105-74.605
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the General Services Administration or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the grant is exempted from coverage under the Governmentwide rule 41 CFR part 105-71 that implements OMB Circular A-102 (for availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3) and specifies uniform administrative requirements.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (i.e., any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
[68 FR 66627, 66628, Nov. 26, 2003]
§ 105-74.610
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 105-74.615
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 105-74.620
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 105-74.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 105-74.625
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 105-74.630
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
§ 105-74.635
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 105-74.640
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (e.g., volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 105-74.645
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 105-74.650
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 105-74.655
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 105-74.660
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 105-74.665
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 105-74.670
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
41 CFR Ch. 109 (7-1-25 Edition)
Department of Energy

# CHAPTER 109—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY PROPERTY MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL
Part
Page
109-1
Introduction
639
109-6
Miscellaneous regulations
652
109-25
General
654
109-26
Procurement sources and program
654
109-27
Inventory management
656
109-28
Storage and distribution
659
109-30
Federal catalog system
661
109-38
Motor equipment management
662
109-39
Interagency fleet management systems
670
109-40
Transportation and traffic management
671
SUBCHAPTERS B-G [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER H—UTILIZATION AND DISPOSAL
109-42
Utilization and disposal of hazardous materials and certain categories of property
676
109-43
Utilization of personal property
677
109-44
Donation of personal property
680
109-45
Sale, abandonment, or destruction of personal property
680
109-46
Utilization and disposal of personal property pursuant to exchange/sale authority
687
109-48
Utilization, donation, or disposal of abandoned and forfeited personal property
687
109-50
Special DOE disposal authorities
688

# SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL
Pt. 109-1

# PART 109-1—INTRODUCTION

# Subpart 109-1.1—Regulation System
Sec.
109-1.100-50
Scope of subpart.
109-1.100-51
Definitions and acronyms.
109-1.101
Federal Property Management Regulations/Federal Management Regulation System.
109-1.101-50
DOE-PMR System.
109.1.102
Federal Property Management Regulations/Federal Management Regulation.
109-1.102-50
DOE-PMRs.
109-1.103
FPMR/FMR temporary regulations.
109-1.103-50
DOE-PMR temporary policies and bulletins.
109-1.104
Publication and distribution of FPMR/FMR.
109-1.104-50
Publication and distribution of DOE-PMR.
109-1.106
Applicability of FPMR/FMR.
109-1.106-50
Applicability of FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR.
109-1.107-50
Consultation regarding DOE- PMR.
109-1.108
Agency implementation and supplementation of FPMR/FMR.
109-1.110-50
Deviation procedures.

# Subpart 109-1.50—Personal Property Management Program
109-1.5000
Scope of subpart.
109-1.5001
Policy.
109-1.5002
Personal property management program objectives.

# Subpart 109-1.51—Personal Property Management Standards and Practices
109-1.5100
Scope of subpart.
109-1.5101
Official use of personal property.
109-1.5102
Maximum use of personal property.
109-1.5103
Loan of personal property.
109-1.5105
Identification marking of personal property.
109-1.5106
Segregation of personal property.
109-1.5107
Physical protection of personal property.
109-1.5108
Personal property records requirements.
109-1.5108-1
Equipment.
109-1.5108-3
Stores inventories.
109-1.5108-4
Precious metals.
109-1.5108-5
Administratively controlled items.
109-1.5110
Physical inventories of personal property.
109-1.5112
Loss, damage, or destruction of personal property in possession of DOE direct operations.
109-1.5113
Loss, damage, or destruction of personal property in possession of designated contractors.
109-1.5114
Use of non-Government-owned property.
109-1.5148
Personal property management reports.

# Subpart 109-1.52—Personal Property Management Program for Designated Contractors
109-1.5200
Scope of subpart.
109-1.5201
Policy.
109-1.5202
Establishment of a personal property holdings baseline.
109-1.5203
Management of subcontractor-held personal property.
109-1.5204
Review and approval of a designated contractor's personal property management system.
109-1.5205
Personal property management system changes.

# Subpart 109-1.53—Management of High Risk Personal Property
109-1.5300
Scope of subpart.
109-1.5301
Applicability.
109-1.5302
Policies.
109-1.5303
Procedures.
109-1.5304
Deviations.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-1.1—Regulation System
§ 109-1.100-50
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth the Department of Energy (DOE) Property Management Regulations (DOE-PMR) which establish uniform DOE property management policies, regulations, and procedures that implement and supplement the Federal Property Management Regulations/Federal Management Regulation. Property management statutory authorities that are unique to the Department (
e.g.,
section 161g of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2201(g)) and section 3155 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (42 U.S.C. 72741)) are not addressed in these regulations.
§ 109-1.100-51
Definitions and acronyms.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the terms
personal property
and
property
are synonymous. In addition, the following definitions apply:
Accountable Personal Property
includes nonexpendable personal property whose expected useful life is two years or longer and whose acquisition value, as determined by the agency, warrants tracking in the agency's property records, including capitalized and sensitive personal property. 41 CFR 102-35.20.
Administratively controlled items
means personal property controlled at the discretion of individual DOE offices, but for which there is no DOE requirement to maintain formal records.
Cannibalization
means to remove serviceable parts from one item of equipment in order to install them on another item of equipment (48 CFR Subpart 45.101).
Capitalized Personal Property
includes property that is entered on the agency's general ledger records as a major investment or asset. An agency must determine its capitalization thresholds as discussed in Financial Accounting Standard Advisory Board (FASAB) Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards No. 6, 41 CFR 102-35.20; DOE Financial Management Handbook.
Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)
means the Unclassified information that is controlled within DOE because its release could cause damage. CUI within DOE encompasses Official Use Only (OUO) and Unclassified Nuclear Information (UCNI). OUO includes information such as Personally Identifiable Information, Export Controlled Information, proprietary information, and other information not covered by other DOE directives. CUI is governed by Executive Order 13556 and is a developing Government-wide policy, Controlled Unclassified Information, which will mandate uniform standards for the control of unclassified information within the Government.
Designated contractors
means those on-site DOE contractors to which the DOE-PMR is made applicable when included as a contractual requirement. The contractors to which these regulations may be made applicable include management and operating (M
O) contractors, environmental management, and other major prime contractors located at DOE sites.
Direct operations
means operations conducted by DOE personnel.
Disposal
means the process of reutilizing, transferring, donating, selling, abandoning, destroying, or other disposition of Government-owned personal property.
Dual-Use List
means nuclear-related material, equipment, and related technology as described in the Nuclear Suppliers Group Dual-Use List as published in International Atomic Energy Agency Information Circular (INFCIRC) 254 Part 2 and as implemented by the Department of Commerce in the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 774).
Equipment
means a tangible asset that is functionally complete for its intended purpose, durable, nonexpendable, and needed for the performance of a contract. Equipment is not intended for sale, and does not ordinarily lose its identity or become a component part of another article when put into use (48 CFR Subpart 45.101).
Especially designed or prepared property
means equipment and material designed or prepared especially for use in the nuclear fuel cycle and described in the Nuclear Suppliers Group Trigger List as published in International Atomic Energy Agency INFCIRC 254 Part 1 and as implemented by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 10 CFR part 110.
Excess Property
means property that is no longer required to carry out the Department of Energy's needs, but for purposes of this regulation, such property has not been reported to the General Services Administration as excess property under 41 CFR 102-36.35.
Export controlled information
means unclassified U.S. Government information under DOE cognizance that, if proposed for export by the private sector, would require a U.S. Department of Commerce or U.S. Department of State validated license, or a DOE authorization for export, and which, if given uncontrolled release, could reasonably be
expected to adversely affect U.S. national security or nuclear nonproliferation objectives.
Export controlled property
means property the export of which is subject to licensing by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or authorized by the U.S. Department of Energy.
Hazardous personal property
means property that is deemed a hazardous material, chemical substance or mixture, or hazardous waste under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (HMTA) (49 U.S.C. 5101), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. 6901-6981), or the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) (15 U.S.C. 2601-2609). 41 CFR 102-36.40.
High risk personal property
means property that, because of its potential impact on public health and safety, the environment, national security interests, or proliferation concerns, must be controlled, and disposed of in other than the routine manner. The categories of high risk property are automatic data processing equipment, especially designed or prepared property, export controlled information, export controlled property, hazardous property, nuclear weapon components or weapon-like components, proliferation sensitive property, radioactive property, special nuclear material, and unclassified controlled nuclear information.
Information Technology.
(i) With respect to an executive agency means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the executive agency, if the equipment is used by the executive agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the executive agency that requires the use—
(A) Of that equipment; or
(B) Of that equipment to a significant extent in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product;
(ii) Includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources; but
(iii) Does not include any equipment acquired by a federal contractor incidental to a federal contract. 40 U.S.C. 11101.
Munitions List Items (MLIs)
are commodities (usually defense articles/defense services) listed in the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (22 CFR part 121), published by the U.S. Department of State. 41 CFR 102-36.40.
Nuclear weapon component or weapon-like component
means parts of whole war reserve nuclear weapon systems, joint test assemblies, trainers, or test devices, including associated testing, maintenance, and handling equipment; or items that simulate such parts.
Organizational Property Management Officers
means establish and administer personal property management programs within their organizations consistent with applicable laws, regulations, practices, and standards.
Personal property
means any property, except real property. For purposes of this part, the term excludes records of the Federal Government, and naval vessels of the following categories: Battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines. 102-36.40.
Program Secretarial Officer
(PSO) Assistant Secretaries/Program Element Heads.
Proliferation-sensitive property
means nuclear-related or dual-use equipment, material, or technology as described in the Nuclear Suppliers Group Trigger List and Dual-Use List, or equipment, material or technology used in the research, design, development, testing, or production of nuclear or other weapons.
Property Administrator
means an authorized representative of the contracting officer appointed in accordance with agency procedures, responsible for administering the contract requirements and obligations relating to Government property in the possession of a contractor FAR 45-101.
Property management
means the system of acquiring, maintaining, using and disposing of the personal property of an organization or entity. 102-35.20.
Radioactive property
means any item or material that is contaminated with radioactivity and which emits ionizing radiation in excess of background radiation as measured by appropriate instrumentation.
Sensitive Personal Property
includes all items, regardless of value, that require special control and accountability due to unusual rates of loss, theft or misuse, or due to national security or export control considerations. Such property includes weapons, ammunition, explosives, information technology equipment with memory capability, cameras, and communications equipment. These classifications do not preclude agencies from specifying additional personal property classifications to effectively manage their programs. 41 CFR 102-35.20.
Spare equipment/property
means items held as replacement spares for equipment in current use in DOE program.
Special nuclear material
means plutonium, uranium 233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or 235, any other materials which the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, determines to be special nuclear material, or any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing, but does not include source material.
Trigger List
means nuclear material, equipment, and related technology as described in International Atomic Energy Agency in INFCIRC 254, Part 1 and as implemented by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in 10 CFR part 110.
Unclassified controlled nuclear information
means U.S. Government information pertaining to atomic energy defense activities as defined in section 148 of the Atomic Energy Act. Such information can relate to aspects of nuclear weapons design, development, testing, physical security, production, or utilization facilities. 10 CFR part 1017.
(b)
Acronyms.
As used in this chapter, the following acronyms apply:
CFR: Code of Federal Regulations
CSC: Customer Supply Center
CUI: Controlled Unclassified Information
DEAR: Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation
DOD: Department of Defense
DOE: Department of Energy
DOE-PMR: Department of Energy Property Management Regulations
DPMO: Departmental Property Management Officer
ECCN: Export Control Classification Number
ECI: Export Controlled Information
EHFFP: Equipment Held For Future Projects
EOQ: Economic Order Quantity
FAR: Federal Acquisition Regulation
FPMR/FMR: Federal Property Management Regulations/Federal Management Regulation
FSC: Federal Supply Classification
FSCG: Federal Supply Classification Group
GAO: General Accounting Office
GSA: General Services Administration
GVWR: Gross Vehicle Weight Rating
INFCIRC: International Atomic Energy Agency Information Circular
IFMS: Interagency Fleet Management System
IT: Information Technology
LEDP: Laboratory Equipment Donation Program
M
O: Management and Operating
MCTL: Military Critical Technologies List
OPMO: Organizational Property Management Officer
OPSEC: Operations Security
PA: Property Administrator
PSO: Program Secretarial Officer (PSO)
SNM: Special Nuclear Material
UCNI: Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information
U.S.C.: United States Code
§ 109-1.101
Federal Property Management Regulations/Federal Management Regulation System.
§ 109-1.101-50
DOE-PMR System.
The DOE-PMR system described in this subpart is established to provide uniform personal property management policies, standards, and practices within the Department.
§ 109-1.102
Federal Property Management Regulations/Federal Management Regulation.
§ 109-1.102-50
DOE-PMRs.
The DOE-PMRs (41 CFR Ch. 109) implements and supplements the FPMR/FMR (41 CFR Ch. 101) issued by the General Services Administration (GSA), Public Laws, Executive Orders,
Office of Management and Budget directives, and other agency issuances affecting the Department's personal property management program.
§ 109-1.103
FPMR/FMR temporary regulations.
§ 109-1.103-50
DOE-PMR temporary policies and bulletins.
(a) Subject to applicable procedural requirements in 41 U.S.C. 1707, 42 U.S.C 7191 and 5 U.S.C 553, Personal Property Letters are authorized for publication of temporary policies that should not be codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR).
(b) DOE-PMR Bulletins are used to disseminate information concerning personal property management matters not affecting policy or to clarify instructions in actions required by the FPMR/FMR or DOE-PMR.
§ 109-1.104
Publication and distribution of FPMR/FMR.
§ 109-1.104-50
Publication and distribution of DOE-PMR.
The DOE-PMR will be published in the
Federal Register
and will appear in the CFR as Chapter 109 of Title 41, Public Contracts and Property Management. Written publications of the DOE-PMR will be distributed to DOE offices.
§ 109-1.106
Applicability of FPMR/FMR.
§ 109-1.106-50
Applicability of FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR.
(a) The FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR apply to all direct operations.
(b) The DOE-PMR does not apply to facilities and activities conducted under Executive Order 12344 (Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program) and Public Law 98-525.
(c) Unless otherwise provided in the appropriate part or subpart, the FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR apply to designated contractors.
(d) The Procurement Executive or head of a contracting activity may designate contractors other than designated contractors to which the FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR apply.
(e) Program Secretarial Officers and other DOE elements are responsible to identify the contracts that involve the life-cycle management of personal property assets. The respective program's Head of Contracting Activity is responsible to issue direction to Contracting Officers to incorporate any and all applicable requirements of the FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR and any supplemental Program Office guidance into contracts identified with life-cycle management of personal property.
(f) Principal authority and responsibility for the administration of DOE personal property in the custody of its contractors rest with the responsible Contracting Officer.
(g) The FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR shall be used by contracting officers in the administration of applicable contracts, and in the review, approval, or appraisal of such contractor operations.
(h) Regulations for the management of Government property in the possession of other DOE contractors are contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), 48 CFR part 45, and in the DOE Acquisition Regulation (DEAR), 48 CFR part 945.
(i) Regulations for the management of personal property held by financial assistance recipients are contained in the DOE Financial Assistance Rules (10 CFR part 600) 2 CFR parts 200 and 910 and DOE Order 534.1, Accounting.
§ 109-1.107-50
Consultation regarding DOE-PMR.
(a) The DOE-PMR shall be fully coordinated with all Departmental elements substantively concerned with the subject matter.
(b) The accountable Under Secretary is responsible for implementation of the DOE PMR through their respective DOE elements.
(c) Program Secretarial Officers and DOE elements with responsibility for personal property, as delegated by their cognizant Under Secretary, may develop program management plans and issue internal program office guidance that is aligned to the requirements in the DOE-PMR and as explicitly authorized by their Under Secretary.
(d) Heads of Contracting Activity designates Organizational Property
Management Officers (OPMO) to establish and administer personal property management programs within their organizations.
(e) Contracting Officers designates Property Administrators (PA) as authorized representatives responsible performing delegated contract administration functions for contract and financial assistance requirements relating to Government personal property.
(f) The Office of Management is responsible for Agency-level management of the contract property program and provides policy and management assistance in support of the policy implementation effort. The Office of Management designates an Agency Property Executive to serve as National Utilization Officer responsible for promoting acquisition and utilization of excess personal property and for establishing policies, standards, and guidance in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and sound personal property management practices and standards.
§ 109-1.108
Agency implementation and supplementation of FPMR/FMR.
(a) The DOE-PMR includes basic and significant Departmental personal property management policies and standards which implement, supplement, or deviate from the FPMR/FMR. In the absence of any DOE-PMR issuance, the basic FPMR/FMR material shall govern.
(b) The DOE-PMR shall be consistent with the FPMR/FMR and shall not duplicate or paraphrase the FPMR/FMR material.
(c) Implementing procedures, instructions, and guides which are necessary to clarify or to implement the DOE-PMR may be issued by Headquarters or field organizations, provided that the implementing procedures, instructions and guides:
(1) Are consistent with the policies and procedures contained in this regulation;
(2) To the extent practicable, follow the format, arrangement, and numbering system of this regulation; and
(3) Contain no material which duplicates, paraphrases, or is inconsistent with the contents of this regulation.
§ 109-1.110-50
Deviation procedures.
(a) Each request for deviation shall contain the following:
(1) A statement of the deviation desired, including identification of the specific paragraph number(s) of the DOE-PMR;
(2) The reason why the deviation is considered necessary or would be in the best interest of the Government;
(3) If applicable, the name of the contractor and identification of the contractor affected;
(4) A statement as to whether the deviation has been requested previously and, if so, circumstances of the previous request;
(5) A description of the intended effect of the deviation;
(6) A statement of the period of time for which the deviation is needed; and
(7) Any pertinent background information which will contribute to a full understanding of the desired deviation.
(b)(1) Requests for deviations from applicable portions of the FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR (except aviation related portions) shall be forwarded with supporting documentation by the Organizational Property Management Officer (OPMO) to the Office of Management.
(2) Requests for deviations from aviation related portions of the FPMR/FMR and DOE-PMR concerning aviation operations shall be forwarded by the OPMO or on-site DOE Aviation Management Officer with supporting documentation to the DOE Senior Aviation Management Official.
(c) The accountable Under Secretary is authorized to approve documented program-specific or location-specific exemptions, exclusions, and/or deviations from requirements of the DOE PMR based on mission needs, efficiency, and/or efficacy of execution without disregarding federal laws and regulations.
(d) Requests for deviations from the FPMR/FMR will be coordinated with GSA by the Office of Management.

# Subpart 109-1.50—Personal Property Management Program
§ 109-1.5000
Scope of subpart.
This subpart supplements the FPMR/FMR, states DOE personal property
management policy and program objectives, and prescribes authorities and responsibilities for the conduct of an efficient personal property management program in DOE.
§ 109-1.5001
Policy.
It is DOE policy that a program for the management of personal property shall be established and maintained to meet program needs. Personal property shall be managed efficiently, in accordance with Federal statutes and regulations, and in alignment with mission needs. Personal property must be managed in a safe and secure manor and ensure personal property assets are available to support efficient mission execution. Commercial practices may be used (
i.e.,
industry leading practices, voluntary consensus standards) that are necessary, appropriate, and provide effective and efficient Government property management, except where those practices are inconsistent with law, regulation or otherwise impractical.
§ 109-1.5002
Personal property management program objectives.
The objectives of the DOE personal property management program are to provide:
(a) A system for efficiently managing personal property in the custody or possession of DOE organizations and designated contractors; and
(b) Uniform principles, policies, and standards for efficient management of personal property that are sufficiently broad in scope and flexible in nature to facilitate adaptation to local needs and various kinds of operations.

# Subpart 109-1.51—Personal Property Management Standards and Practices
§ 109-1.5100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart provides guidance on DOE standards and practices to be applied in the management of personal property.
§ 109-1.5101
Official use of personal property.
Personal property shall be used only in the performance of official work of the United States Government, except:
(a) In emergencies threatening loss of life or property as authorized by law;
(b) As otherwise authorized by law and approved by the Office of Management; Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations; or a contracting officer for contractor-held property.
§ 109-1.5102
Maximum use of personal property.
Personal property management practices shall assure the best possible use of personal property. Supplies and equipment shall be generally limited to those items essential for carrying out the programs of DOE efficiently.
§ 109-1.5103
Loan of personal property.
(a) Personal property which is not excess and would otherwise be out of service for temporary periods may be loaned to other DOE offices and contractors, other Federal agencies, and to others for official purposes. The loan request shall be in writing, stating the purpose of the loan and period of time required. The loan shall be executed on DOE Form 4420.2, Personal Property Loan Agreement when approved in writing by the OPMO or on-site DOE property administrator. When approved, a memorandum transmitting the loan agreement shall be prepared identifying the loan period, delivery time, method of payment and transportation, and point of delivery and return, to ensure proper control and protect DOE's interest. The domestic loan period shall not exceed one year, but may be renewed in one year increments. Second renewals of loan agreements shall be reviewed and justified at a level of management at least two levels above that of the individual making the determination to loan the property. Third renewals shall be approved by the head of the field organization or designee.
(b) Requests for loans to foreign Governments and other foreign organizations shall be submitted to the Office of International Affairs for approval, with a copy to the cognizant Headquarters program office.
§ 109-1.5105
Identification marking of personal property.
(a) Personal property shall be marked “U.S. Government property” or “U.S. DOE”) subject to the criteria below. The markings shall be securely affixed to the property, legible, and conspicuous. Examples of appropriate marking media are bar code labels, decals, and stamping.
(b) Personal property which by its nature cannot be marked, such as stores items, metal stock, etc., is exempted from this requirement.
(c) To the extent practicable and economical, markings shall be removed prior to disposal outside of DOE. 41 CFR 102-35.30.
§ 109-1.5106
Segregation of personal property.
Generally, contractor-owned personal property shall be segregated from Government personal property. Commingling of Government and contractor-owned personal property may be allowed only when:
(a) The segregation of the property would materially hinder the progress of the work (
i.e.,
segregation is not feasible for reasons such as small quantities, lack of space, or increased costs); and
(b) Control procedures are adequate (
i.e.,
the Government property is specifically marked or otherwise identified as Government property).
§ 109-1.5107
Physical protection of personal property.
Controls such as property pass systems, memorandum records, regular or intermittent gate checks, and/or perimeter fencing shall be established as appropriate to prevent loss, theft, or unauthorized removal of property from the premises on which such personal property is located.
§ 109-1.5108
Personal property records requirements.
The contractor's property control records shall provide the following information for every accountable item of Government personal property in the contractor's possession and any other data elements required by specific contract provisions:
(a) Contract number or equivalent code designation.
(b) Asset type.
(c) Description of item (name, serial number, national stock number (if available)).
(d) Property control number (Government ownership identity).
(e) Unit acquisition cost (including delivery and installation cost, when appropriate, and unit of measure).
(f) Acquisition document reference and date.
(g) Manufacturer's name, model and serial number.
(h) Quantity received, fabricated, issued or on hand.
(i) Location (physical area)
(j) Custodian name and organization code.
(k) Use status (active, storage, excess, etc.)
(l) High risk designation.
(m) Disposition document reference and date.
§ 109-1.5108-1
Equipment.
An individual property record will be developed and maintained for each item of equipment.
§ 109-1.5108-3
Stores inventories.
Perpetual inventory records are to be maintained for stores inventory items.
§ 109-1.5108-4
Precious metals.
Perpetual inventory records are to be maintained for precious metals.
§ 109-1.5108-5
Administratively controlled items.
No formal property management records are required to be maintained for this category of personal property, which includes such items as those controlled for calibration or maintenance purposes, contaminated property, tool crib items, and equipment pool items. Various control records can be employed to help safeguard this property against waste and abuse, including purchase vs. use information, tool crib check-outs, loss and theft reports, calibration records, disposal records, and other similar records. Control techniques would include physical security, custodial responsibility, identification/marking, or other locally established control techniques.
§ 109-1.5110
Physical inventories of personal property.
(a) Physical inventories of those categories of personal property as specified in paragraph (g) of this section shall be conducted at all DOE and designated contractor locations.
(b) Physical inventories shall be performed by the use of personnel other than custodians of the property. Where staffing restraints or other considerations apply, the inventory may be performed by the custodian with verification by a second party.
(c) Detailed procedures for the taking of physical inventories shall be developed for each DOE office and designated contractor. The OPMO/PA shall review and approve the DOE office and contractor procedures.
(d) The conduct of a physical inventory will be observed, or follow-on audits made, by independent representatives,
e.g.,
finance, audit, or property personnel, to the extent deemed necessary to assure that approved procedures are being followed and results are accurate. These observations or audits shall be documented and the documentation retained in the inventory record file.
(e) The DOE capitalization threshold for items acquired prior to October 1, 2011 is $50,000. For items acquired on or after October 1, 2011, the threshold is $500,000.
(f) Procedures that are limited to a check-off of a listing of recorded property without actual verification of the location and existence of such property do not meet the requirements of a physical inventory.
(g) The frequency of physical inventories of personal property shall be as follows:
(1) Equipment—biennial 98%. Inventory accuracy.
(2) Sensitive items—annual 100%. Inventory accuracy.
(3) Stores inventories—annual.
(4) Precious metals—annual 100% Inventory accuracy.
(5) HRPP—annual 100% Inventory accuracy.
(6) All other accountable property every three years 98% Inventory accuracy.
(7) Administratively controlled items—There is no formal Department requirement for the performance of physical inventories of this property. However, OPMOs/PA's determines inventory requirements based on management needs.
(h) Physical inventories shall be performed at intervals more frequently than required when experience at any given location or with any given item or items indicates that this action is necessary for effective property accounting, utilization, or control as directed by OPMO/PA.
(i) Physical inventories of equipment may be conducted by the “inventory by exception” method. The system and procedures for taking physical inventories by this method must be fully documented and approved in writing by the OPMO/PA.
(j) The results of physical inventories shall be reconciled with the property records, and with applicable financial control accounts.
(k) The results of physical inventories shall be reported to the OPMO/PA.
(l) Physical inventories of equipment and stores inventories may be conducted using statistical sampling methods in lieu of the normal wall-to-wall method. The sampling methods employed must be statistically valid and approved in writing by the OPMO. If use of the statistical methods of physical inventory does not produce acceptable results, the wall-to-wall method shall be used to complete the inventories.
§ 109-1.5112
Loss, damage, or destruction of personal property in possession of DOE direct operations.
DOE offices shall establish procedures to provide for the reporting, documentation, and investigation of instances of loss, damage, or destruction of personal property including:
(a) Notification to appropriate DOE organizations and law enforcement offices;
(b) Determination of cause or origin;
(c) Liability and responsibility for repair or replacement; and
(d) Actions taken to prevent further loss, damage, or destruction, and to prevent repetition of similar incidents.
§ 109-1.5113
Loss, damage, or destruction of personal property in possession of designated contractors.
(a) Designated contractors shall report any loss, damage, or destruction of personal property in its possession or control, including property in the possession or control of subcontractors, to the property administrator as soon as it becomes known.
(b) When physical inventories, consumption analyses, or other actions disclose consumption of property considered unreasonable by the property administrator; or loss, damage, or destruction of personal property not previously reported by the contractor, the property administrator shall require the contractor to investigate the incidents and submit written reports.
(c) Reports of physical inventory results and identified discrepancies shall be submitted to the property administrator within 90 days of completion of physical inventories. An acceptable percentage of shrinkage for stores inventories shall be determined by the property administrator on a location-by-location basis, based on type and cost of materials, historical data, and other site-specific factors. This determination shall be in writing and be supported by appropriate documentation.
(d) The contractor's report referenced above shall contain factual data as to the circumstances surrounding the loss, damage, destruction or excessive consumption, including:
(1) The contractor's name and contract number;
(2) A description of the property;
(3) Cost of the property, and cost of repairs in instances of damage (in event actual cost is not known, use reasonable estimate);
(4) The date, time (if pertinent), and cause or origin; and
(5) Actions taken by the contractor to prevent further loss, damage, destruction, or unreasonable consumption, and to prevent repetition of similar incidents.
(e) The property administrator shall ensure that the corrective actions taken by the contractor under paragraph (d)(5) of this section satisfactorily address system weaknesses.
(f) The contracting officer shall make a determination of contractor liability with a copy of the determination furnished to the contractor and the property administrator. Costs may be assessed against a contractor for physical inventory discrepancies or other instances of loss of Government property within the terms of the contract. Credit should only be applied if specific items reported as lost can be uniquely identified. General physical inventory write-ons are not to be used as a credit.
(g) If part of a designated contractor's personal property management system is found to be unsatisfactory, the property administrator shall increase surveillance of that part to prevent, to the extent possible, any loss, damage, destruction or unreasonable consumption of personal property. The property administrator shall give special attention to reasonably ensuring that any loss, damage, destruction or unreasonable consumption occurring during a period when a contractor's personal property management system is not approved is identified before approval or reinstatement of approval.
§ 109-1.5114
Use of non-Government-owned property.
Non-Government-owned personal property shall not be installed in, affixed to, or otherwise made a part of any Government-owned personal property when such action will adversely affect the operation or condition of the Government property.
§ 109-1.5148
Personal property management reports.
Annual personal property reports as required by 41 CFR 102 35.25 and internal DOE personal property reports must be submitted to the Office of Management at a date determined by the Property Executive.

# Subpart 109-1.52—Personal Property Management Program for Designated Contractors
§ 109-1.5200
Scope of subpart.
This subpart prescribes policy and responsibilities for the establishment, maintenance, and appraisal of designated contractors' programs for the management of personal property.
§ 109-1.5201
Policy.
(a) Designated contractors shall establish, implement, and maintain a system that provides for an efficient personal property management program. The system shall be consistent with the terms of the contract; prescribed policies, procedures, regulations, statutes, and instructions; and directions from the contracting officer.
(b) Designated contractors' personal property management systems shall not be considered acceptable until reviewed and approved in writing by the cognizant DOE contracting office in accordance with § 109-1.5205 of this subpart.
(c) Designated contractors shall maintain their personal property management systems in writing. Revisions to the systems shall be approved in writing by the cognizant DOE contracting office in accordance with § 109-1.5205 of this subpart.
(d) Designated contractors shall include their personal property management system in their management surveillance or internal review program in order to identify weaknesses and functions requiring corrective action.
(e) Designated contractors are responsible and accountable for all Government personal property in the possession of subcontractors, and shall include appropriate provisions in their subcontracts and property management systems to assure that subcontractors establish and maintain efficient systems for the management of Government personal property in their possession in accordance with § 109-1.5204 of this subpart.
§ 109-1.5202
Establishment of a personal property holdings baseline.
(a) If the contractor is a new designated contractor, the contractor may accept the previous contractor's personal property records as a baseline or may perform a complete physical inventory of all personal property. This physical inventory is to be performed within the time period specified by the contracting officer or the contract, but no later than one year after the execution date of the contract. If the physical inventory is not accomplished within the allotted time frame, the previous contractor's records will be considered as the baseline.
(b) If any required physical inventories have not been accomplished within the time periods prescribed in § 109-1.5110(f) of this part, the new contractor shall either perform such physical inventories within 120 days of contract renegotiation, or accept the existing property records as the baseline.
§ 109-1.5203
Management of subcontractor-held personal property.
Designated contractors shall require those subcontractors provided Government-owned personal property to establish and maintain a system for the management of such property. As a minimum, a subcontractor's personal property management system shall provide for the following:
(a) Adequate records.
(b) Controls over acquisitions.
(c) Identification as Government-owned personal property.
(d) Physical inventories.
(e) Proper care, maintenance, and protection.
(f) Controls over personal property requiring special handling (
i.e.,
nuclear-related, proliferation-sensitive, hazardous, or contaminated property).
(g) Reporting, redistribution, and disposal of excess and surplus personal property.
(h) Accounting for personal property that is lost, damaged, destroyed, stolen, abandoned, or worn out.
(i) Periodic reports, including physical inventory results and total acquisition cost of Government property.
(j) An internal surveillance program, including periodic reviews, to ensure that personal property is being managed in accordance with established procedures.
§ 109-1.5204
Review and approval of a designated contractor's personal property management system.
(a) An initial review of a designated contractor's personal property management system shall be performed by the property administrator within one year after the execution date of the contract, except for contract extensions or renewals or when an existing contractor has been awarded a follow-on contract. The purpose of the review is
to determine whether the contractor's system provides adequate protection, maintenance, utilization, and disposition of personal property, and reasonable assurance that the Department's personal property is safeguarded against waste, loss, unauthorized use, or misappropriation, in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, contract terms and conditions, programmatic needs, and good business practices. If circumstances preclude completion of the initial review within the “within one year” initial review requirement, the property administrator shall request a deviation from the requirement in accordance with the provisions of § 109-1.110-50 of this part.
(b) If a designated contractor is the successor to a previous designated contractor and the contract award was based in part on the contractor's proposal to overhaul the existing personal property management system(s), the “within one year” initial review requirement may be extended based on:
(1) The scope of the overhaul; and
(2) An analysis of the cost to implement the overhaul within a year versus a proposed extended period.
(c) When an existing contract has been extended or renewed, or the designated contractor has been awarded a follow-on contract, an initial review of the contractor's personal property management system is not required. In such cases, the established appraisal schedule will continue to be followed as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) At a minimum of every three years after the date of approval of a designated contractor's property management system, the OPMO/PA shall make an appraisal of the personal property management operation of the contractor. The purpose of the appraisal is to determine if the contractor is managing personal property in accordance with its previously approved system and procedures, and to establish whether such procedures are efficient. The appraisal may be based on a formal comprehensive appraisal or a series of formal appraisals of the functional segments of the contractor's operation.
(e) A designated contractor's property management system shall be approved, conditionally approved, or disapproved in writing by the head of the field organization with advice of the contracting officer, property administrator, OPMO, legal counsel, and appropriate program officials. Approval authority may be redelegated to the contracting officer or OPMO/PA. Conditional approval and disapproval authority cannot be redelegated. When a system is conditionally approved or disapproved, the property administrator or contracting officer shall advise the contractor, in writing, of deficiencies that need to be corrected, and a time schedule established for completion of corrective actions.
(f) Appropriate follow-up will be made by the property administrator to ensure that corrective actions have been initiated and completed.
(g) When a determination has been made by the property administrator that all major system deficiencies identified in the review or appraisal have been corrected, the head of the field organization shall withdraw the conditional approval or disapproval, and approve the system with the concurrence of the OPMO/PA. The approval shall be in writing and addressed to appropriate contractor management.
(h) The property administrator shall maintain a copy of all designated contractor personal property management system appraisals and approvals in such manner as to be readily available to investigative and external review teams.
§ 109-1.5205
Personal property management system changes.
Any proposed significant change to a designated contractor's approved personal property management system shall be reviewed by the property administrator at the earliest possible time. Such changes should then be approved in writing on an interim basis, or disapproved in writing, by the property administrator as appropriate.

# Subpart 109-1.53—Management of High Risk Personal Property
§ 109-1.5300
Scope of subpart.
(a) This subpart provides identification, accounting, control, and disposal
policy guidance for the following categories of high risk personal property: Especially designed or prepared property, export controlled property, nuclear weapon components or weapon-like components, and proliferation sensitive property. The guidance is intended to ensure that the disposition of these categories of high risk personal property does not adversely affect the national security or nuclear nonproliferation objectives of the United States.
(b) The other categories of high risk personal property are controlled by other life cycle management programs and procedures monitored by other Departmental elements.
§ 109-1.5301
Applicability.
This subpart is applicable to all DOE organizations which purchase, manage or dispose of Government personal property, or contract for the management of Government facilities, programs, or related services, which may directly or indirectly require the purchase, management, or disposal of Government-owned personal property. Using the high-risk personal property control requirements in this subpart as guidance, Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) or OPMOs/PAs shall ensure that designated contractors and financial assistance recipients are responsible for developing a cost effective high-risk property management system, covering all operational responsibilities enumerated in this subpart.
§ 109-1.5302
Policies.
(a) It is the responsibility of DOE organizations and designated contractors to manage and control Government-owned high risk personal property in an efficient manner. High-risk personal property will be managed throughout its life cycle so as to protect public and DOE personnel safety and to advance the national security and the nuclear nonproliferation objectives of the U.S. Government.
(b) The disposition of high risk property is subject to special considerations. Items of high risk property may present significant risks to the national security and nuclear nonproliferation objectives of the Government which must be evaluated. Organizations will identify high risk property and control its disposition to eliminate or mitigate such risks. In no case shall property be transferred or disposed unless it receives a high risk assessment and is handled accordingly.
§ 109-1.5303
Procedures.
(a)
Identification, marking and control.
To ensure the appropriate treatment of property at its disposal and to prevent inadvertent, uncontrolled release of high risk property, property should be assessed and evaluated as high risk property as early in its life cycle as practical.
(1) Newly acquired high risk personal property shall be identified and tracked during the acquisition process and marked upon receipt.
(2) All personal property shall be reviewed for high risk identification, marking, and database entry during regularly scheduled physical inventories, unless access to the property is difficult or impractical because the property is a component of a larger assembly, a complex operating system, or an older facility. The review of this property will be completed, prior to disposition, when replacing components or when operating systems and facilities are decommissioned and dismantling.
(3) High risk personal property which by its nature cannot be marked, such as stores items and metal stock, is exempt from this requirement. However, personal property management programs should contain documentation on the characterization of this property as high risk.
(b)
Disposition of high risk property.
(1) Prior to disposition, all personal property, materials or data will be assessed to determine:
(i) Whether it should be characterized as high risk, and
(ii) What actions are necessary to ensure compliance with applicable national security or nonproliferation controls.
(2) The DOE or designated contractor property management organization may not process high risk personal property into a reutilization/disposal program without performing the reviews prescribed by the local high risk
property management system. The reviews must be properly documented, and all appropriate certifications and clearances received, in accordance with the approved site or facility personal property management program.
(3) The disposition (including demilitarization of items on the Munitions List) and handling of high risk personal property are subject to applicable provisions of subchapter H of the FPMR/FMR, subchapter H of this chapter, and the DOE Guidelines on Export Control and Nonproliferation.
(4) All applicable documentation, including records concerning the property's categorization as high risk, shall be included as part of the property transfer. The documentation shall be included with all transfers within, or external to, DOE.
(5) Unless an alternative disposition option appears to be in the best interest of the Government, surplus Trigger List components, equipment, and materials and nuclear weapon components shall either be sold for scrap after being rendered useless for their originally intended purpose or destroyed, with the destruction verified and documented. Requests for approval of an alternative disposition may be made through the cognizant Assistant Secretary to the Director of the Office of Nonproliferation and National Security.
(6) The following Export Restriction Notice, or approved equivalent notice, shall be included in all transfers, sales, or other offerings:

# Export Restriction Notice
The use, disposition, export and re-export of this property are subject to all applicable U.S. laws and regulations, including the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
); the Export Administration Act of 1979 as continued under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (Title II of Pub. L. 95-223, 91 Stat. 1626, October 28, 1977); Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. 4305) as amended by the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961); Assistance to Foreign Atomic Energy Activities (10 CFR part 810); Export and Import of Nuclear Equipment and Material (10 CFR part 110); International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR parts 120
et seq.
); Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR part 730
et seq.
);.); and the Espionage Act (37 U.S.C. 791
et seq.
) which among other things, prohibit:
a. The making of false statements and concealment of any material information regarding the use or disposition, export or re-export of the property; and
b. Any use or disposition, export or re-export of the property which is not authorized in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
§ 109-1.5304
Deviations.
(a) Life cycle control determinations. When the PSO approves a contractor program containing controls, other than life cycle control consistent with this subpart, the decision shall be justified in writing and a copy sent to the Office of Management. A PSO's decision not to provide life-cycle control should take into account:
(1) The nature and extent of high risk property typically purchased or otherwise brought to a DOE or designated contractor facility or site;
(2) The projected stability of DOE and designated contractor operations; and
(3) The degree of confidence in the property control measures available at disposition.
(b) Certain transfers, sales, or other offerings of high risk personal property may require special conditions or specific restrictions as determined necessary by the property custodian or cognizant program office.
(c) Requests for deviations from the requirements of this subpart may be made through the cognizant PSO to the Office of Management.
Pt. 109-6

# PART 109-6—MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

# Subpart 109-6.4—Official Use of Government Passenger Carriers Between Residence and Place of Employment
Sec.
109-6.400
Scope and applicability.
109-6.400-50
Instructions to DOE passenger carrier operators.
109-6.402
Policy.
109-6.450
Statutory provisions.

# Authority:
Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 390 (40 U.S.C. 121; 31 U.S.C. 1344(e)(1).

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-6.4—Official Use of Government Passenger Carriers Between Residence and Place of Employment
§ 109-6.400
Scope and applicability.
(a) With the exception of § 109-6.400-50, the provisions of this subpart and 41 CFR part 102-5 do not apply to designated contractors. Official use provisions applicable to these contractors are contained in § 109-38.3 of this chapter.
(b) When an employee on temporary duty is authorized to travel by Government motor vehicle, and in the interest of the Government, is scheduled to depart before the beginning of regular working hours, or if there will be a significant savings in time, a Government motor vehicle may be issued at the close of the preceding working day. Such authorizations must be submitted to the fleet manager to ensure proper use of motor vehicles during non-duty hours. Similarly, when scheduled to return after the close of working hours, the motor vehicle may be returned the next regular working day. This use of a Government motor vehicle is not regarded as prohibited by 31 U.S.C. 1344 (25 Comp. Gen. 844(1946)).
§ 109-6.400-50
Instructions to DOE passenger carrier operators.
DOE offices shall ensure that DOE employees operating Government motor vehicles are informed concerning:
(a) The statutory requirement that Government motor vehicles shall be used only for official purposes;
(b) Personal responsibility for safe driving and operation of Government motor vehicles, and for compliance with Federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and all accident reporting requirements;
(c) The need to possess a valid state, District of Columbia, or commonwealth operator's license or permit for the type of vehicle to be operated and some form of agency identification. Check for specific details within your state laws regarding vehicle operator's licenses from foreign countries which may be valid in certain States;
(d) The penalties for unauthorized use of Government motor vehicles;
(e) The prohibition against providing transportation to strangers or hitchhikers;
(f) The proper care, control and use of Government credit card and vehicle keys;
(g) Mandatory use of seat belts by each employee operating or riding in a Government motor vehicle;
(h) The prohibition against the use of tobacco products in GSA-Interagency Fleet Management System (IFMS) motor vehicles;
(i) Any other duties and responsibilities assigned to operators with regard to the use, care, operation, and maintenance of Government motor vehicles;
(j) The potential income tax liability when they use a Government motor vehicle for transportation between residence and place of employment; and
(k) Protection for DOE employees under the Federal Tort Claims Act when acting within the scope of their employment.
(l) The prohibition against text messaging while operating a Government vehicle, or any vehicle while on Government business, as set forth under Executive Order 13513; and
(m) See 31 U.S.C. 1344 and 41 CFR 301-10.201 for allowable use of Government vehicles while on temporary duty or official travel orders.
§ 109-6.402
Policy.
(a) It is DOE policy that Government motor vehicles operated by DOE employees are to be used only for official Government purposes or for incidental purposes as prescribed in this section. The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations shall establish appropriate controls to ensure that the use of a Government motor vehicle for transportation between an employee's residence and place of employment is in accordance with the provisions of 41 CFR part 102-5 and this subpart.
(b) It is DOE policy that space in a Government motor vehicle used for home-to-work transportation may be shared with a spouse, relative, or friend in accordance with the restrictions contained in 41 CFR 102-5.105.
§ 109-6.450
Statutory provisions.
(a) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 1349(b), any officer or employee of the Government who willfully uses or authorizes the use of a Government passenger motor vehicle for other than official purposes shall be suspended from duty by the head of the department concerned, without compensation, for not less than one month and shall be suspended for a longer period or summarily removed from office if circumstances warrant.
(b) Under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 641, any person who knowingly misuses any Government property (including Government motor vehicles) may be subject to criminal prosecution and, upon conviction, to fines or imprisonment.
Pt. 109-25

# PART 109-25—GENERAL

# Subpart 109-25.1—General Policies
Sec.
109-25-109-1
Identification of idle equipment.
109-25-109-2
Equipment pools.
109-25.302
Office furniture, furnishings, and equipment.
109-25.350
Furnishing of Government clothing and individual equipment.

# Authority:
Sec. 644, Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 599 (42 U.S.C. 7254).

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-25.1—General Policies
§ 109-25.109-1
Identification of idle equipment.
At a minimum, management walk-throughs shall be conducted to provide for coverage of all operating and storage areas at least once every two years to identify idle and unneeded personal property.
§ 109-25.109-2
Equipment pools.
(a)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) The report on the use and effectiveness of equipment pools shall be submitted to the head of the DOE office at the discretion of that official. However, documentation of evaluations of pools shall be maintained and made available for review by appropriate contractor management, DOE offices, and audit teams.
(e) Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall require periodic independent reviews of equipment pool operations.
§ 109-25.302
Office furniture, furnishings, and equipment.
The Director, Office of Management, Program Secretarial Officer (PSO), and designated contractors shall establish criteria for the use of office furniture, furnishings, and equipment.
§ 109-25.350
Furnishing of Government clothing and individual equipment.
(a) Government-owned clothing and individual equipment may be furnished to employees:
(1) For protection from physical injury or occupational disease; or
(2) When employees could not reasonably be required to furnish them as a part of the personal clothing and equipment needed to perform the regular duties of the position to which they are assigned or for which services were engaged.
(b) This section does not apply to uniforms or uniform allowances under the Federal Employees Uniform Allowance Act of 1954, 84 Public Law 37, as amended.
Pt. 109-26

# PART 109-26—PROCUREMENT SOURCES AND PROGRAM

# Subpart 109-26.2—Federal Requisitioning System
Sec.
109-26.203
Activity address codes.

# Subpart 109-26.5—GSA Procurement Programs
109-26.501
Purchase of new motor vehicles.
109-26.501-1
General.
109-26.501-4
Submission of orders.
109-26.501-50
Authority and allocations for the acquisition of passenger motor vehicles.
109-26.501-51
Used vehicles.
109-26.501-52
Justification for purchase.
109-26.501-53
Acquisitions by transfer.
109-26.501-54
Communications equipment.

# Authority:
Sec. 644, Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 599 (42 U.S.C. 7254).

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-26.2—Federal Requisitioning System
§ 109-26.203
Activity address codes.
(a) DOE field organizations designated by the Office of Management are responsible for processing routine activity code related transactions for specified groupings of field organizations. Each field organization in a specified grouping will forward their activity address code related transactions to the grouping's lead organization for processing. Each lead organization shall designate a point of contact who will:
(1) Verify the need, purpose, and validity of each transaction; and
(2) Be the specified grouping's authorized point of contact for dealing directly with GSA.
(b) The Office of Management is responsible for:
(1) All policy matters related to the issuance and control of activity address codes within DOE; and
(2) Furnishing the identity of the lead field organization points of contact to GSA.

# Subpart 109-26.5—GSA Procurement Programs
§ 109-26.501
Purchase of new motor vehicles.
§ 109-26.501-1
General.
(a) GSA is a mandatory source, under FPMR 101-26.501, for purchase of new non-tactical vehicles.
(b) Under unique circumstances which meet the criteria set forth under FPMR, motor vehicles may be purchased directly rather than through GSA when a waiver has been granted by GSA. The waiver request should be submitted directly to GSA and a copy forwarded to the Office of Management. GSA will grant waivers on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with FPMR 101-26.501(b)(c).
§ 109-26.501-4
Submission of orders.
An original and two copies of requisitions for passenger motor vehicles and law enforcement motor vehicles shall be forwarded with justification for purchase to the Office of Management, for approval and submission to GSA. Requisitions for all other types of motor vehicles shall be submitted directly to GSA.
§ 109-26.501-50
Authority and allocations for the acquisition of passenger motor vehicles.
(a) Authority for the acquisition of passenger motor vehicles is contained in the Department's annual appropriation act.
(b) DOE offices shall include in their budget submissions the number of passenger motor vehicles to be purchased during the fiscal year. The procurements will be identified as either additions to the motor vehicle fleet or replacement vehicles. A copy of the motor vehicle portion of the submission should be submitted to the Office of Management.
(c) To ensure that DOE does not exceed the number of passenger motor vehicles authorized to be acquired in any fiscal year, the Office of Management or designee shall allocate to and inform the field organizations in writing of the number of passenger motor vehicles which may be acquired under each appropriation. These allocations and the statutory cost limitations imposed on these motor vehicles shall not be exceeded.
(d) The motor vehicle fleet manager shall provide written certification to the OPMO that disposition action has been taken on replaced passenger motor vehicles. Such certification shall be provided no later than 30 days after the disposition of the vehicle. Replaced passenger motor vehicles shall not be retained in service after receipt of the replacement vehicle.
§ 109-26.501-51
Used vehicles.
Normally, DOE does not purchase or authorize contractors to purchase used motor vehicles. However, the Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) may authorize the purchase of used motor vehicles where justified by special circumstances,
e.g.,
when new motor vehicles are in short supply; motor vehicles are to be used for experimental or test purposes; or motor vehicles are acquired from exchange/sale. The statutory passenger motor vehicle allocation requirements shall apply to any purchase of used
passenger motor vehicles except in the case of motor vehicles to be used exclusively for experimental or test purposes.
§ 109-26.501-52
Justification for purchase.
(a) Requisitions for additions to the passenger motor vehicle fleet must contain adequate written justification of need. Such justifications shall be prepared by the motor vehicle fleet manager and approved by the OPMO, and should include:
(1) A statement as to why the present fleet size is inadequate to support requirements;
(2) Efforts made to achieve maximum use of on-hand motor vehicles through pool arrangements, shuttle buses, and taxicabs;
(3) The programmatic requirement for the motor vehicles and the impact on the program/project if the requisitions are not filled;
(4) The established DOE or local utilization objectives used to evaluate the utilization of passenger motor vehicles and whether the objectives have been approved by the OPMO; and
(5) The date of the last utilization review and the number of passenger motor vehicles which did not meet the established utilization objectives and the anticipated mileage to be achieved by the new motor vehicles.
(b) Requisitions for replacement passenger motor vehicles should include a statement that utilization, pools, shuttle buses and taxicabs have been considered by the motor vehicle fleet manager and the OPMO. Specific information on the identification, age and mileage of the motor vehicles should be included. When a passenger motor vehicle being replaced does not meet Federal replacement standards, a description of the condition of the vehicle should also be provided.
§ 109-26.501-53
Acquisitions by transfer.
(a) The acquisition of passenger motor vehicles by transfer from another Government agency or DOE organization shall be within the allocations prescribed in § 109-26.501-50 of this subpart.
(b) Passenger motor vehicles may be acquired by transfer provided they are:
(1) Considered as an addition to the motor vehicle fleet of the receiving office;
(2) Acquired for replacement purposes and an equal number of replaced motor vehicles are reported for disposal within 30 days;
(3) For temporary emergency needs exceeding three months and approved in writing by the DPMO; or
(4) For temporary emergency needs of three months or less in lieu of commercial rentals. These transfers will not count toward the allocation.
§ 109-26.501-54
Communications equipment.
Communications equipment considered to be essential for the accomplishment of security and safety responsibilities is exempt from the requirements of 41 CFR 101-26.501. The Fleet Manager shall approve the installation of communications equipment in motor vehicles.
Pt. 109-27

# PART 109-27—INVENTORY MANAGEMENT

# Subpart 109-27.50—Inventory Management Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines
Sec.
109-27.5008
Control of drug substances.

# Subpart 109-27.51—Management of Precious Metals
109-27.5100
Scope of subpart.
109-27.5101
Definition.
109-27.5102
Policy.
109-27.5103
Precious Metals Control Officer.
109-27.5104
Practices and procedures.
109-27.5104-1
Acquisitions.
109-27.5104-2
Physical protection and storage.
109-27.5104-3
[Reserved]
109-27.5104-4
Physical inventories.
109-27.5104-5
Control and issue of stock.
109-27.5104-6
Control by using organization.
109-27.5105
Management reviews and audits.
109-27.5106
Precious metals pool.
109-27.5106-1
Purpose.
109-27.5106-2
Withdrawals.
109-27.5106-3
Returns.
109-27.5106-4
Withdrawals/returns forecasts.
109-27.5106-5
Assistance.
109-27.5107
Recovery of silver from used hypo solution and scrap film.

# Authority:
Sec. 644, Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 599 (42 U.S.C. 7254).

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-27.50—Inventory Management Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines
§ 109-27.5008
Control of drug substances.
Effective procedures and practices shall provide for the management and physical security of controlled substances from receipt to the point of use. Such procedures shall, as a minimum, provide for safeguarding, proper use, adequate records, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

# Subpart 109-27.51—Management of Precious Metals
§ 109-27.5100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart provides policies, principles, and guidelines to be used in the management of purchased and recovered precious metals used to meet research, development, production, and other programmatic needs.
§ 109-27.5101
Definition.
Precious metals
means uncommon and highly valuable metals characterized by their superior resistance to corrosion and oxidation. Included are gold, silver, and the platinum group metals—platinum, palladium, rhodium, iridium, ruthenium and osmium.
§ 109-27.5102
Policy.
DOE organizations and contractors shall establish effective procedures and practices for the administrative and physical control of precious metals in accordance with the provisions of this subpart.
§ 109-27.5103
Precious Metals Control Officer.
Each DOE organization and contractor holding precious metals shall designate in writing a Precious Metals Control Officer. This individual shall be the organization's primary point of contact concerning precious metals control and management, and shall be responsible for the following:
(a) Ensuring that the organization's precious metals activities are conducted in accordance with Departmental requirements.
(b) Maintaining an accurate list of the names of precious metals custodians.
(c) Providing instructions and training to precious metals custodians and/or users as necessary to assure compliance with regulatory responsibilities.
(d) Ensuring that physical inventories are performed as required by, and in accordance with, these regulations.
(e) Witnessing physical inventories.
(f) Performing periodic unannounced inspections of a custodian's precious metals inventory and records.
(g) Conducting an annual review of precious metals holdings to determine excess quantities.
(h) Preparing and submitting to the DOE Business Center for Precious Metals Sales and Recovery the annual forecast of anticipated withdrawals from, and returns to, the DOE precious metals pool.
(i) Conducting a program for the recovery of silver from used hypo solution and scrap film in accordance with 41 CFR 101-45.10 and § 109-45.10 of this chapter.
(j) Preparing and submitting of the annual report on recovery of silver from used hypo solution and scrap film as required by § 109-45.1002-2 of this chapter.
(k) Developing and issuing current authorization lists of persons authorized by management to withdraw precious metals from stockrooms.
§ 109-27.5104
Practices and procedures.
§ 109-27.5104-1
Acquisitions.
DOE organizations and contractors shall contact the DOE Business Center for Precious Metals Sales and Recovery to determine the availability of precious metals prior to acquisition on the open market.
§ 109-27.5104-2
Physical protection and storage.
Precious metals shall be afforded exceptional physical protection from time of receipt until disposition. Precious metals not in use shall be stored
in a noncombustible combination locked repository with access limited to the designated custodian and an alternate. When there is a change in custodian or alternate having access to the repository, the combination shall be changed immediately.
§ 109-27.5104-3
[Reserved]
§ 109-27.5104-4
Physical inventories.
(a) Physical inventories shall be conducted annually by custodians, and witnessed by the Precious Metals Control Officer or his designee in accordance with 109-1.5110, Physical inventories frequency requirements.
(b) Precious metals not in use shall be inspected and weighed on calibrated scales. The inventoried weight and form shall be recorded on the physical inventory sheets by metal content and percent of metal. Metals in use in an experimental process or contaminated metals, neither of which can be weighed, shall be listed on the physical inventory sheet as observed and/or not observed as applicable.
(c) Any obviously idle or damaged metals should be recorded during the physical inventory. Justification for further retention of idle metals shall be required from the custodian and approved one level above the custodian, or disposed of in accordance with established procedures.
(d) The dollar value of physical inventory results shall be reconciled with the financial records. All adjustments shall be supported by appropriate adjustment reports, and approved by a responsible official.
§ 109-27.5104-5
Control and issue of stock.
Precious metals in stock are metals held in a central location and later issued to individuals when authorized requests are received. The following control procedures shall be followed for such metals:
(a) Stocks shall be held to a minimum consistent with efficient support to programs.
(b) The name and organization number of each individual authorized to withdraw precious metals, and the type and kind of metals, shall be prominently maintained in the stockroom. This authorization shall be issued by the Precious Metals Control Officer or his designee and updated annually. Issues of metals will be made only to authorized persons.
(c) Accurate records of all receipts, issues, returns, and disposals shall be maintained in the stockroom.
(d) Receipts for metal issues and returns to stock shall be provided to users. Such receipts, signed by the authorized requesting individual and the stockroom clerk, shall list the requesting organization, type and form of metal, quantity, and date of transaction.
§ 109-27.5104-6
Control by using organization.
(a) After receipt, the using organization shall provide necessary controls for precious metals. Materials shall be stored in a non-combustible, combination locked repository at all times except for quantities at the actual point of use.
(b) Each using organization shall maintain a log showing the individual user, type and form of metal, and the time, place, and purpose of each use. The log shall be kept in a locked repository when not in use.
(c) The logs and secured locked storage facilities are subject to review by the Precious Metals Control Officer and other audit or review staffs as required.
(d) Cognizant Departmental managers are responsible for assuring that minimum quantities of precious metals are withdrawn consistent with work requirements and that quantities excess to requirements are promptly returned to the stockroom.
§ 109-27.5105
Management reviews and audits.
(a) Unannounced inspections of custodian's precious metals inventory and records may be conducted between scheduled inventories.
(b) DOE organizations and contractors holding precious metals shall annually review the quantity of precious metals on hand to determine if the quantity is in excess of program requirements. Precious metals which are not needed for current or foreseeable
requirements shall be promptly reported to the DOE precious metals pool. The results of this annual review are to be documented and entered into the precious metals inventory records.
§ 109-27.5106
Precious metals pool.
§ 109-27.5106-1
Purpose.
The purpose of the precious metals pool is to recycle, at a minimum cost to pool participants, DOE-owned precious metals within the Department and to dispose of DOE-owned precious metals that are excess to DOE needs. However, if the pool is unable to accept any potential precious metal return, the using activity will dispose of the precious metals through the disposal process specified in subchapter H of the FPMR/FMR and this regulation.
§ 109-27.5106-2
Withdrawals.
Pure metals are available through the Business Center for either direct shipment to DOE contractors or facilities to fulfill fabrication requirements. Contact the Business Center for available forms and quantity (
https://www.y12.doe.gov/missions/pmetal/
).
§ 109-27.5106-3
Returns.
All excess precious metals must be returned to the precious metals pool except as noted in § 109-27.5106-1 of this subpart. The pool is entirely dependent on metal returns; therefore, metal inventories should be maintained on an as-needed basis, and any excess metals must be returned to the pool for recycling. This includes precious metals in any form, including shapes, and scraps. Procedures have been developed by the precious metals pool contractor for metal returns, including storing, packaging, shipping, and security.
§ 109-27.5106-4
Withdrawals/returns forecasts.
The Business Center for Precious Metals Sales and Recovery will request annually from each DOE field organization its long-range forecast of anticipated withdrawals from the pool and returns to the pool.
§ 109-27.5106-5
Assistance.
The Business Center for Precious Metals Sales and Recovery operates the precious metals pool. DOE organizations and contractors may obtain specific information regarding the operation of the precious metals pool (operating contractor's name, address, and telephone number; processing charges; etc.) by contacting the Chief, Property Management Branch.
§ 109-27.5107
Recovery of silver from used hypo solution and scrap film.
The requirements for the recovery of silver from used hypo solution and scrap film are contained in § 109-45.1003 of this chapter.
Pt. 109-28

# PART 109-28—STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION
Sec.
109-28.000-50
Policy.
109-28.000-51
Storage guidelines.

# Subpart 109-28.3—Customer Supply Centers
109-28.306
Customer supply center (CSC) accounts and related controls.
109-28.306-3
Limitations on use.
109-28.306-5
Safeguards.

# Subpart 109-28.50—Management of Equipment Held for Future Projects
109-28.5000
Scope of subpart.
1109-28.5001
Definition.
109-28.5002
Objective.
109-28.5003
Records.
109-28.5004
Justification and review procedures.
109-28.5005
EHFFP program review.
109-28.5006
Utilization.

# Subpart 109-28.51—Management of Spare Equipment/Property
109-28.5100
Scope of subpart.
109-28.5101
Definition.
109-28.5102
Exclusions.
109-28.5103
Management policy.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7254.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 109-28.000-50
Policy.
DOE offices and designated contractors shall:
(a) Establish storage space and warehousing services for the receipt, storage, issue, safekeeping and protection of Government property;
(b) Provide storage space and warehousing services in the most efficient manner consistent with program requirements; and
(c) Operate warehouses in accordance with generally accepted industrial management practices and principles.
§ 109-28.000-51
Storage guidelines.
(a) Indoor storage areas should be arranged to obtain proper stock protection and maximum utilization of space within established floor load capacities.
(b) Storage yards for items not requiring covered protection shall be protected by locked fenced enclosures to the extent necessary to protect the Government's interest.
(c) Storage areas shall be prominently posted to clearly indicate that the property stored therein is U.S. Government property, with entrance to such areas restricted to authorized personnel only.
(d) Property in storage must be protected from fire, theft, deterioration, or destruction. In addition certain items require protection from dampness, heat, freezing, or extreme temperature changes. Other items must be stored away from light and odors, protected from vermin infestation, or stored separately because of their hazardous characteristics.
(e) Hazardous or contaminated property, including property having a history of use in an area where exposure to contaminated property may have occurred, shall not be commingled with non-contaminated property, but stored separately in accordance with instructions from the environmental, safety, and health officials.
(f) Unless inappropriate or impractical until declared excess, nuclear-related and proliferation-sensitive property shall be identified as such by use of a certification tag signed by an authorized program official (designated in writing with signature cards on file in the personal property management office). Such personal property shall not be commingled with other personal property, but stored separately in accordance with instructions from the cognizant program office.

# Subpart 109-28.3—Customer Supply Centers
§ 109-28.306
Customer supply center (CSC) accounts and related controls.
§ 109-28.306-3
Limitations on use.
DOE offices and designated contractors shall establish internal controls for ensuring that the use of CSC accounts is limited to the purchase of items for official Government use.
§ 109-28.306-5
Safeguards.
DOE offices and designated contractors shall establish internal controls for ensuring that the customer access codes assigned for their accounts are properly protected.

# Subpart 109-28.50—Management of Equipment Held for Future Projects
§ 109-28.5000
Scope of subpart.
This subpart provides policies, principles, and guidelines to be used in the management of equipment held for future projects (EHFFP).
§ 109-28.5001
Definition.
Equipment held for future projects
means items being retained, based on approved justifications, for a known future use, or for a potential use in planned projects.
§ 109-28.5002
Objective.
The objective of the EHFFP program is to enable DOE offices and contractors to retain equipment not in use in current programs but which has a known or potential use in future DOE programs, while providing visibility on the types and amounts of equipment so retained through review and reporting procedures. It is intended that equipment be retained where economically justifiable for retention, considering cost of maintenance, replacement, obsolescence, storage, deterioration, or future availability; made available for use by others; and promptly excessed when no longer needed.
§ 109-28.5003
Records.
Records of all EHFFP shall be maintained by the holding organization, including a listing of items with original date of classification as EHFFP; initial justifications for retaining EHFFP; rejustifications for retention; and documentation of reviews made by higher levels of management.
§ 109-28.5004
Justification and review procedures.
Procedures shall provide for the following:
(a) The original decision to classify and retain equipment as EHFFP shall be justified in writing, providing sufficient detail to support the need for retention of the equipment. This justification will cite the project for which retained, the potential use to be made of the equipment, or other reasons for retention.
(b) The validity of the initial classification EHFFP shall be reviewed by management at a level above that of the individual making the initial determination.
(c) Retention of equipment as EHFFP must be rejustified annually to ensure that original justifications remain valid. The rejustifications will contain sufficient detail to support retention.
(d) When equipment is retained as EHFFP for longer than one year, the annual rejustification shall be reviewed at a level of management at least two levels above that of the individual making the determination to retain the EHFFP. Equipment retained as EHFFP for longer than three years should be approved by the head of the DOE field organization.
§ 109-28.5005
EHFFP program review.
OPMOs or on-site DOE property administrators shall conduct periodic reviews in accordance 109-1.5110 Physical inventories of personal property frequency requirement to ensure that the EHFFP program is being conducted in accordance with established procedures DOE-FMR. Included in the review will be proper determinations of property as EHFFP, the validity of justifications for retaining EHFFP.
§ 109-28.5006
Utilization.
It is DOE policy that, where practicable and consistent with program needs, EHFFP be considered as a source of supply to avoid or postpone acquisition.

# Subpart 109-28.51—Management of Spare Equipment/Property
§ 109-28.5100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart provides policy guidance to be used in the management of spare equipment.
§ 109-28.5101
Definition.
Spare equipment/property
means items held as replacement spares for equipment in current use in DOE program.
§ 109-28.5102
Exclusions.
The following categories of equipment will not be considered spare equipment:
(a) Equipment/Property installed for emergency backup,
e.g.,
an emergency power facility, or an electric motor or a pump, any of which is in place and electrically connected.
(b) Equipment items properly classified as stores inventory.
§ 109-28.5103
Management policy.
(a) Procedures shall require the maintenance of records for spare equipment/property, cross-referenced to the location in the facility and the engineering drawing number. The purpose for retention shall be in the records.
(b) Reviews shall be made based on technical evaluations of the continued need for the equipment. The reviews should be held biennially. In addition, individual item levels shall be reviewed when spare equipment/Property is installed for use, the basic equipment is removed from service, or the process supported is changed.
(c) Procedures shall be established to provide for the identification and reporting of unneeded spare equipment/property as excess property.
Pt. 109-30

# PART 109-30—FEDERAL CATALOG SYSTEM

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7254.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 109-30.001-50
Applicability.
The provisions of 41 CFR part 101-30 do not apply to designated contractors.
Pt. 109-38

# PART 109-38—MOTOR EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT
Sec.
109-38.000
Scope of part.
109-38.000-50
Policy.

# Subpart 109-38.0—Definition of Terms
109-38.001
Definitions.

# Subpart 109-38.1—Fuel Efficient Motor Vehicles
109-38.104
Fuel efficient passenger automobiles and light trucks.
109-38.105
Agency purchase and lease of motor vehicles.

# Subpart 109-38.2—Registration, Identification, and Exemptions
109-38.200
General requirements.
109-38.201
Registration and inspection.
109-38.201-50
Registration in foreign countries.
109-38.202
Tags.
109-38.202-2
Outside the District of Columbia.
109-38.202-3
Records.
109-38.202-50
Security.
109-38.203
Agency identification.
109-38.204
Exemptions.
109-38.204-1
Unlimited exemptions.
109-38.204-3
Requests for exempted motor vehicles in the District of Columbia.
109-38.204-4
Report of exempted motor vehicles.
109-38.204-50
Records of exempted motor vehicles.

# Subpart 109-38.3—Official Use of Government Motor Vehicles
109-38.300
Scope.
109-38.301
Authorized use.
109-38.301-1
Contractors' use.
109-38.301-1.50
Authorization for transportation between residence and place of employment.
109-38.301-1.51
Emergency use.
109-38.301-1.52
Maintenance of records.
109-38.301-1.53
Responsibilities of motor vehicle operators.

# Subpart 109-38.4—Use and Replacement Standards
109-38.401
Use standards.
109-38.401-2
Use of self-service pumps.
109-38.402
Replacement standards.
109-38.402-50
Prompt disposal of replaced motor vehicles.
109-38.403
Responsibility for damages.
109-38.403-1
Policy.
109-38.403-2
Responsibility.
109-38.403-3
Exceptions.

# Subpart 109-38.5—Scheduled Maintenance
109-38.502
Guidelines.
109-38.502-50
DOE guidelines.

# Subpart 109-38.7—Transfer, Storage, and Disposal of Motor Vehicles
109-38.701
Transfer of title for Government-owned motor vehicles.
109-38.701-50
Authority to sign Standard Form 97, The United States Government Certificate to Obtain Title to a Vehicle.

# Subpart 109-38.8—Fleet Credit Card
109-38.800
General.
109-38.801
Obtaining fleet credit card.

# Subpart 109-38.9—Federal Motor Vehicle Fleet Report
109-38.902
Records.
109-38.903
Reporting of data.
109-38.903-50
Reporting DOE motor vehicle data.

# Subpart 109-38.51—Utilization of Motor Equipment
109-38.5100
Scope of subpart.
109-38.5101
Policy.
109-38.5102
Utilization controls and practices.
109-38.5103
Motor vehicle utilization standards.
109-38.5104
Other motor equipment utilization standards.
109-38.5105
Motor vehicle local use objectives.
109-38.5106
Application of motor vehicle use goals.

# Subpart 109-38.52—Watercraft
109-38.5200
Scope of subpart.
109-38.5201
Definition.
109-38.5202
Watercraft operations.
109-38.5203
Watercraft identification and numbers.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7254.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 109-38.000
Scope of part.
§ 109-38.000-50
Policy.
Motor vehicles and watercraft shall be acquired, maintained, and utilized in support of DOE programs in the minimum quantity required and in the most efficient manner consistent with program requirements, safety considerations, fuel economy, and applicable laws and regulations.

# Subpart 109-38.0—Definition of Terms
§ 109-38.001
Definitions.
Experimental vehicles
means vehicles acquired solely for testing and research purposes or otherwise designated for experimental purposes. Such vehicles are to be the object of testing and research as differentiated from those used as vehicular support to testing and research. Experimental vehicles are not to be used for passenger carrying services unless required as part of a testing/evaluation program, and they are not subject to statutory price limitations or authorization limitations.
Motor equipment
means any item of equipment which is self-propelled or drawn by mechanical power, including motor vehicles, motorcycles and scooters, construction and maintenance equipment, materials handling equipment, and watercraft.
Motor vehicle
means any equipment, self-propelled or drawn by mechanical power, designed to be operated principally on highways in the transportation of property or passengers.
Special purpose vehicles
means vehicles which are used or designed for specialized functions. These vehicles include, but are not limited to: Trailers, semi-trailers, other types of trailing equipment; trucks with permanently mounted equipment (such as aerial ladders); construction and other types of equipment set forth in Federal Supply Classification Group (FSCG) 38; material handling equipment set forth in FSCG 39; and firefighting equipment set forth in FSCG 42. For reporting purposes within DOE, motorcycles, motor scooters and all-terrain vehicles will also be reported as special purpose vehicles.

# Subpart 109-38.1—Fuel Efficient Motor Vehicles
§ 109-38.104
Fuel efficient passenger automobiles and light trucks.
(a) What size motor vehicles may we obtain? (See 41 CFR 102-34.50).
(b) All requests to obtain passenger automobiles larger than class IA, IB, or II (small, subcompact, or compact) shall be forwarded with justification to the DPMO for approval and certification for compliance with the fuel economy objectives listed in 41 CFR 102-34 subpart B.
(c) Requests to exempt certain light trucks from the fleet average fuel economy calculations shall be forwarded with justification to the Office of Management for approval.
§ 109-38.105
Agency purchase and lease of motor vehicles.
(a) DOE activities shall submit a copy of all motor vehicle leases and purchases not procured through the GSA Automotive Commodity Center to GSA.
(b)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) DOE activities desiring to renew a commercial lease shall submit the requirement in writing to the Office of Management for approval prior to submission by field offices to GSA.
(e) DOE activities shall submit a copy of all lease agreements to GSA.

# Subpart 109-38.2—Registration, Identification, and Exemptions
§ 109-38.200
General requirements.
(a)-(e) [Reserved]
(f) Requests made pursuant to 41 CFR 102-34.155 through 102-34.170 for limited exemption from the requirement for displaying U.S. Government tags and other identification on motor vehicles, except for those vehicles exempted in accordance with 41 CFR 102-34.175 and § 109-38.204-1 of this subpart, shall be submitted to the Office of Management for approval. Each approved exemption must be renewed annually, and the Office of Management shall be notified promptly when the need for a previously authorized exemption no longer
exists. Copies of certifications and cancellation notices required to be furnished to GSA pursuant to 41 CFR 102-34.160 will be transmitted to GSA.
(g) Requests for temporary removal and substitution of Government markings shall be submitted with justification to the DPMO for review and approval. Copies of the determination and justification required to be furnished to GSA will be transmitted to GSA by the DPMO.
§ 109-38.201
Registration and inspection.
§ 109-38.201-50
Registration in foreign countries.
Motor vehicles used in foreign countries are to be registered and carry license tags in accordance with the existing motor vehicle regulations of the country concerned. The person responsible for a motor vehicle in a foreign country shall make inquiry at the United States Embassy, Legation, or Consulate concerning the regulations that apply to registration, licensing, and operation of motor vehicles and shall be guided accordingly.
§ 109-38.202
Tags.
§ 109-38.202-2
Outside the District of Columbia.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall make the determination concerning the use of tags outside the District of Columbia.
§ 109-38.202-3
Records.
(a) The Office of Management assigns “blocks” of U.S. Government license tag numbers to DOE organizations and maintains a current record of such assignments. Additional “blocks” will be assigned upon request.
(b) Each DOE direct operation and designated contractor shall maintain a current record of individual assignments of license tags to the motor vehicles under their jurisdiction.
§ 109-38.202-50
Security.
Unissued license tags shall be stored in a locked drawer, cabinet, or storage area with restricted access to prevent possible fraud or misuse. Tags which are damaged or unusable will be safeguarded until destroyed.
§ 109-38.203
Agency identification.
Standard DOE motor vehicle window decals (DOE Form 1530.1), and door decals to be used only on vehicles without windows (DOE Form 1530.2), are available from the Office of Administrative Services, Logistics Management Division, Headquarters, using DOE Form 4250.2, “Requisition for Supplies, Equipment or Services”, or as directed by that office.
§ 109-38.204
Exemptions.
§ 109-38.204-1
Unlimited exemptions.
(a)-(f) [Reserved]
(g) The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations may approve exemptions from the requirement for the display of U.S. Government license tags and other official identification for motor vehicles used for security or investigative purposes.
§ 109-38.204-3
Requests for exempted motor vehicles in the District of Columbia.
The Director, Office of Administrative Services is designated to approve requests for regular District of Columbia license tags, and furnishes annually the name and specimen signature of each representative authorized to approve such requests to the District of Columbia Department of Transportation.
§ 109-38.204-4
Report of exempted motor vehicles.
DOE offices shall provide upon request the necessary information to the DPMO to enable that office to submit a report of exempted vehicles.
§ 109-38.204-50
Records of exempted motor vehicles.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall maintain records of motor vehicles exempted from displaying U.S. Government license tags and other identification. The records shall contain a listing, by type, of each exempted motor vehicle operated during the previous fiscal year, giving information for each
motor vehicle on hand at the beginning of the year and each of those newly authorized during the year, including:
(a) Name and title of authorizing official (including any authorization by Headquarters and GSA);
(b) Date exemption was authorized;
(c) Justification for exemption and limitation on use of the exempted motor vehicle;
(d) Date of discontinuance for any exemption discontinued during the year; and
(e) Probable duration of exemptions for motor vehicles continuing in use.

# Subpart 109-38.3—Official Use of Government Motor Vehicles
§ 109-38.300
Scope.
This subpart prescribes the requirements governing the use of Government motor vehicles for official purposes by designated contractors.
§ 109-38.301
Authorized use.
The use of Government motor vehicles by officers and employees of the Government is governed by the provisions of 41 CFR 102-34 Subpart D and section 109-6.4 of this chapter.
§ 109-38.301-1
Contractors' use.
Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall ensure that provisions of the FPMR/FMR concerning contractor use of Government motor vehicles are complied with by their designated contractors.
§ 109-38.301-1.50
Authorization for transportation between residence and place of employment.
(a) Government motor vehicles shall not be used for transportation between residence and place of employment by designated contractor personnel except under extenuating circumstances specifically provided for under the terms of the contract. Examples of circumstances eligible for prior approval of home-to-work motor vehicle use which would be appropriate to include in the terms of the contract include: Use related to safety or security operations, use related to compelling operational considerations, and use determined as cost effective to DOE's interest. Under no circumstances shall the comfort and convenience, or managerial position, of contractor employees be considered justification for authorization of use.
(b) The use of Government motor vehicles for transportation between residence and place of employment (including sporadic use) by designated contractor personnel shall be approved in writing by the Head of the field organization or designee, with delegation no lower than the Director, Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) or the equivalent position at other DOE contracting activities provided that the individual is a warranted contracting officer. The contractor's request for approval shall include the name and title of the employee, the reason for the use, and the expected duration of the use. Each authorization is limited to one year, but can be extended for an unlimited number of additional one-year periods.
§ 109-38.301-1.51
Emergency use.
(a) Procedures for authorization of designated contractor use of Government motor vehicles in emergencies, including unscheduled overtime situations at remote sites where prior approval is not possible, shall be included in a contractor's approved property management procedures. The procedures shall include examples of emergency situations warranting such use. Records detailing instances of emergency use shall be maintained and review of all such emergency or overtime use must be certified through established audit procedures on at least an annual basis by the OPMO.
(b) In limiting the use of Government motor vehicles to official purposes, it is not intended to preclude their use in emergencies threatening loss of life or property. Such use shall be documented and the documentation retained for three years.
§ 109-38.301-1.52
Maintenance of records.
Designated contractors shall maintain logs or other records on the use of a Government motor vehicle for transportation between an employee's residence and place of employment. As a minimum, these logs shall indicate the employee's name, date of use, time of
departure and arrival, miles driven, and names of other passengers. Cognizant finance offices shall be provided with applicable data on employees who utilize Government motor vehicles for such transportation for purposes of the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 concerning the taxation of fringe benefits.
§ 109-38.301-1.53
Responsibilities of motor vehicle operators.
Designated contractors shall assure that their employees are aware of their responsibilities, identical to those listed in § 109-6.400-50 of this chapter for DOE employees, concerning the use and operation of Government motor vehicles.

# Subpart 109-38.4—Use and Replacement Standards
§ 109-38.401
Use standards.
§ 109-38.401-2
Use of self-service pumps.
It is DOE policy that motor vehicle operators shall use self-service pumps in accordance with the provisions of 41 CFR 101-38.401-2.
§ 109-38.402
Replacement standards.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Motor vehicles may be replaced without regard to the replacement standards in 41 CFR 102-34 subpart E only after certification by the Office of Management or the Head of the field organization for their respective organizations that a motor vehicle is beyond economical repair due to accident damage or wear caused by abnormal operating conditions.
§ 109-38.402-50
Prompt disposal of replaced motor vehicles.
A replaced motor vehicle shall be removed from service and disposed of prior to or as soon as practicable after delivery of the replacement motor vehicle to avoid concurrent operation of both motor vehicles.
§ 109-38.403
Responsibility for damages.
§ 109-38.403-1
Policy.
The policy for assigning responsibility for vehicle damage is to recover from users the costs for damages which would adversely affect the vehicle's resale.
§ 109-38.403-2
Responsibility.
The designated contractor will charge the using organization all costs resulting from damage, including vandalism, theft and parking lot damage to a DOE vehicle which occurs during the period that the vehicle is assigned to an employee of that organization. The charges recovered by the designated maintenance operation will be used to repair the vehicle. Other examples for which organizations will be charged are as follows:
(a) Damage caused by misuse or abuse inconsistent with normal operation and local conditions; or
(b) Repair costs which are incurred as a result of user's failure to obtain required preventative maintenance; or
(c) Unauthorized purchases or repairs, including credit card misuse, provided there is a clear, flagrant, and documented pattern of such occurrences.
§ 109-38.403-3
Exceptions.
Exceptions to § 109-38.403-2 of this subpart are as follows:
(a) As a result of the negligent or willful act of a party other than the organization or its employee, and the responsible party can be determined; or
(b) As a result of mechanical failure and the employee was not otherwise negligent. Proof of the failure must be provided; or
(c) As a result of normal wear comparable to similar vehicles.

# Subpart 109-38.5—Scheduled Maintenance
§ 109-38.502
Guidelines.
§ 109-38.502-50
DOE guidelines.
(a) Whenever practicable and cost effective, commercial service facilities shall be utilized for the maintenance of motor vehicles.
(b) Individual vehicle maintenance records shall be kept to provide records of past repairs, as a control against unnecessary repairs and excessive maintenance, and as an aid in determining
the most economical time for replacement.
(c) One-time maintenance and repair limitations shall be established by the motor equipment fleet manager. To exceed repair limitations, approval of the motor equipment fleet manager is required.
(d)(1) Motor vehicles under manufacturer's warranty shall be repaired under the terms of the warranty.
(2) When motor vehicles are maintained in Government repair facilities in isolated locations that are distant from franchised dealer facilities, or when it is not practical to return the vehicles to a dealer, a billback agreement shall be sought from manufacturers to permit warranty work to be performed on a reimbursable basis.

# Subpart 109-38.7—Transfer, Storage, and Disposal of Motor Vehicles
§ 109-38.701
Transfer of title for Government-owned motor vehicles.
§ 109-38.701-50
Authority to sign Standard Form 97, The United States Government Certificate to Obtain Title to a Vehicle.
The Standard Form (SF) 97 shall be signed by an appropriate contracting officer. The Director, Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations may delegate the authority to sign SF 97 to responsible DOE personnel under their jurisdiction.

# Subpart 109-38.8—Fleet Credit Card
§ 109-38.800
General.
(a)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations shall be responsible for establishing procedures to provide for the administrative control of fleet credit cards. Administrative control shall include, as a minimum:
(1) A reconciliation of on-hand credit cards with the inventory list provided by GSA,
(2) Providing motor vehicle operators with appropriate instructions regarding the use and protection of credit cards against theft and misuse,
(3) The taking of reasonable precautions in the event a fleet credit card is lost or stolen to minimize the opportunity of purchases being made by unauthorized persons, including notification to the paying office of the loss or theft,
(4) Validation of credit card charges to ensure they are for official use only items, and
§ 109-38.801
Obtaining fleet credit card.
A dedicated fleet credit card is issued with each GSA-leased motor vehicle. DOE offices electing to use fleet credit cards for agency-owned vehicles and motor equipment shall request the assignment of new accounts from the Office of Management. Following the assignment, DOE organizations shall submit orders for issuance of fleet credit cards in accordance with the instructions provided by GSA.

# Subpart 109-38.9—Federal Motor Vehicle Fleet Report
§ 109-38.902
Records.
The Office of Management and OPMOs for their respective organizations shall establish adequate records for accounting and reporting purposes.
§ 109-38.903
Reporting of data.
§ 109-38.903-50
Reporting DOE motor vehicle data.
See 41 CFR 102-34 subpart J.

# Subpart 109-38.51—Utilization of Motor Equipment
§ 109-38.5100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart prescribes policies and procedures concerning the utilization of motor equipment.
§ 109-38.5101
Policy.
It is DOE policy to keep the number of motor vehicles and other motor equipment at the minimum needed to satisfy programmatic requirements. To attain this goal, controls and practices shall be established which will achieve
the most practical and economical utilization of motor equipment. These controls and practices apply to all DOE-owned and commercially leased motor equipment and to GSA Interagency Fleet Management System motor vehicles.
§ 109-38.5102
Utilization controls and practices.
Controls and practices to be used by DOE organizations and designated contractors for achieving maximum economical utilization of motor equipment shall include, but not be limited to:
(a) The maximum use of motor equipment pools, taxicabs, shuttle buses, or other common service arrangements;
(b) The minimum, practicable assignment of motor equipment to individuals, groups, or specific organizational components;
(c) The maintenance of individual motor equipment use records, such as trip tickets or vehicle logs, or hours of use, as appropriate, showing sufficiently detailed information to evaluate appropriateness of assignment and adequacy of use being made. If one-time use of a motor vehicle is involved, such as assignments from motor pools, the individual's trip records must, as a minimum, identify the motor vehicle and show the name of the operator, dates, destination, time of departure and return, and mileage;
(d) The rotation of motor vehicles between high and low mileage assignments where practicable to maintain the fleet in the best overall replacement age and mileage balance and operating economy;
(e) The charging, if considered feasible, to the user organization for the cost of operating and maintaining motor vehicles assigned to groups or organizational components. These charge-back costs should include all direct and indirect costs of the motor vehicle fleet operation as determined by the field organization and contractor finance and accounting functions;
(f) The use of dual-purpose motor vehicles capable of hauling both personnel and light cargo whenever appropriate to avoid the need for two motor vehicles when one can serve both purposes. However, truck-type or van vehicles shall not be acquired for passenger use merely to avoid statutory limitations on the number of passenger motor vehicles which may be acquired;
(g) The use of motor scooters and motorcycles in place of higher cost motor vehicles for certain applications within plant areas, such as mail and messenger service and small parts and tool delivery. Their advantage, however, should be weighed carefully from the standpoint of overall economy (comparison with cost for other types of motor vehicles) and increased safety hazards, particularly when mingled with other motor vehicle traffic; and
(h) The use of electric vehicles for certain applications. The use of these vehicles is encouraged wherever it is feasible to use them to further the goal of fuel conservation.
§ 109-38.5103
Motor vehicle utilization standards.
(a) The following average utilization standards are established for DOE as objectives for those motor vehicles operated generally for those purposes for which acquired:
(1) Sedans and station wagons, general purpose use—12,000 miles per year.
(2) Light trucks (4 x 2's) and general purpose vehicles, one ton and under (less than 12,500 GVWR)—10,000 miles per year.
(3) Medium trucks and general purpose vehicles, 1
1/2
ton through 2
1/2
ton (12,500 to 23,999 GVWR)—7,500 miles per year.
(4) Heavy trucks and general purpose vehicles, three ton and over (24,000 GVWR and over)—7,500 miles per year.
(5) Truck tractors—10,000 miles per year.
(6) All-wheel-drive vehicles—7,500 miles per year.
(7) Other motor vehicles—No utilization standards are established for other trucks, ambulances, buses, law enforcement motor vehicles, and special purpose vehicles. The use of these motor vehicles shall be reviewed at least annually by the motor equipment fleet manager and action shall be taken and documented to verify that the motor vehicles are required to meet programmatic, health, safety, or security requirements.
(b) When operating circumstances prevent the above motor vehicle utilization standards from being met, local use objectives must be established and met as prescribed in § 109-38.5105 of this subpart.
§ 109-38.5104
Other motor equipment utilization standards.
No utilization standards are established for motor equipment other than motor vehicles. Each DOE office should establish through an agreement between the fleet manager and the OPMO utilization criteria for other motor equipment including heavy mobile equipment and review, adjust, and approve such criteria annually. Utilization of various classifications of other motor equipment can be measured through various statistics including miles, hours of use, number of trips, and fuel consumption. A utilization review of other motor equipment shall be performed at least annually by the motor equipment fleet manager to justify retainment or disposition of excess equipment not needed to fulfill Departmental, programmatic, health, safety, or security requirements.
§ 109-38.5105
Motor vehicle local use objectives.
(a) Individual motor vehicle utilization cannot always be measured or evaluated strictly on the basis of miles operated or against any Department-wide mileage standard. For example, light trucks specifically fitted for use by a plumber, welder, etc., in the performance of daily work assignments, would have uniquely tailored use objectives, different from those set forth for a truck used for general purposes. Accordingly, efficient local use objectives, which represent practical units of measurement for motor vehicle utilization and for planning and evaluating future motor vehicle requirements, must be established and documented by the Organizational Motor Equipment Fleet Manager. The objectives should take into consideration past performance, future requirements, geographical disbursement, and special operating requirements.
(b) These objectives shall be reviewed and adjusted as appropriate, but not less often than annually, by the motor equipment fleet manager. The reviews shall be documented. The Organizational Motor Equipment Fleet Manager is responsible for reviewing and approving in writing all proposed local use objectives.
§ 109-38.5106
Application of motor vehicle use goals.
(a) At least annually, the motor equipment fleet manager will review motor vehicle utilization statistics and all motor vehicles failing to meet the applicable DOE utilization standard or local use objective must be identified.
(b) Prompt action must be initiated to:
(1) Reassign the underutilized motor vehicles;
(2) Dispose of the underutilized motor vehicles; or
(3) Obtain a special justification from users documenting their continued requirement for the motor vehicle and any proposed actions to improve utilization. Any requirement for underutilized motor vehicles which the motor equipment fleet manager proposes to continue in its assignment, must be submitted in writing to the Organizational Motor Equipment Fleet Manager for approval.
(c) Both Department-wide standards and local use objectives should be applied in such a manner that their application does not stimulate motor vehicle use for the purpose of meeting the objective. The ultimate standard against which motor vehicle use must be measured is that the minimum number of motor vehicles will be retained to satisfy program requirements.

# Subpart 109-38.52—Watercraft
§ 109-38.5200
Scope of subpart.
This subpart establishes basic policies and procedures that apply to the management of watercraft operated by DOE organizations and designated contractors. The head of each Departmental organization operating watercraft shall issue such supplemental instructions as may be needed to ensure the efficient use and management of watercraft.
§ 109-38.5201
Definition.
As used in this subpart the following definition applies:
Watercraft
means any vessel used to transport persons or material on water.
§ 109-38.5202
Watercraft operations.
(a) No person may operate a watercraft on a waterway until skill of operation and basic watercraft knowledge have been demonstrated.
(b) Operators of watercraft shall check the vessel to ensure that necessary equipment required by laws applicable to the area of operation are present, properly stowed, and in proper working order.
(c) Operators shall comply with all applicable Federal, state, and local laws pertaining to the operation of watercraft.
(d) Operators shall not use watercraft or carry passengers except in the performance of official Departmental assignments.
§ 109-38.5203
Watercraft identification and numbers.
Watercraft in the custody of DOE or designated contractors shall display identifying numbers, whether issued by the U.S. Coast Guard, State, or local field organization, in accordance with applicable requirements.
Pt. 109-39

# PART 109-39—INTERAGENCY FLEET MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

# Subpart 109-39.1—Establishment, Modification, and Discontinuance of Interagency Fleet Management Systems
Sec.
109-39.101
Notice of intention to begin a study.
109-39.101-1
Agency cooperation.
109-39.103
Agency appeals.
109-39.105
Discontinuance or curtailment of service.
109-39.105-2
Agency requests to withdraw participation.
109-39.106
Unlimited exemptions.
109-39.107
Limited exemptions.

# Subpart 109-39.3—Use and Care of GSA Interagency Fleet Management System Vehicles
109-39.300
General.
109-39.301
Utilization guidelines.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7254.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-39.1—Establishment, Modification, and Discontinuance of Interagency Fleet Management Systems
§ 109-39.101
Notice of intention to begin a study.
§ 109-39.101-1
Agency cooperation.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations shall designate representatives to coordinate with GSA concerning the establishment of a GSA fleet management system to serve their organization.
§ 109-39.103
Agency appeals.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations may appeal, or request exemption from, a determination made by GSA concerning the establishment of a fleet management system. A copy of the appeal or request shall be forwarded to the DPMO.
§ 109-39.105
Discontinuance or curtailment of service.
§ 109-39.105-2
Agency requests to withdraw participation.
Should circumstances arise that would tend to justify discontinuance or curtailment of participation by a DOE organization of a given interagency fleet management system, the participating organization should forward complete details to the DPMO for consideration and possible referral to the Administrator of General Services.
§ 109-39.106
Unlimited exemptions.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations shall make the determination that an unlimited exemption from inclusion of a motor vehicle in a fleet management system is warranted. A copy of the determination shall be forwarded to GSA and to the Office of Management.
§ 109-39.107
Limited exemptions.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations shall seek limited exemptions from the fleet management system.

# Subpart 109-39.3—Use and Care of GSA Interagency Fleet Management System Vehicles
§ 109-39.300
General.
(a)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) Motor equipment fleet managers shall ensure that operators and passengers in GSA Interagency Fleet Management System (IFMS), agency-owned and agency commercially-leased motor vehicles are aware of the prohibition against the use of tobacco products in these vehicles.
§ 109-39.301
Utilization guidelines.
DOE activities utilizing GSA IFMS motor vehicles will receive and review vehicle utilization statistics in order to determine if miles traveled justify vehicle inventory levels. Activities should retain justification for the retention of vehicles not meeting DOE utilization guidelines or established local use objectives, as appropriate. Those vehicles not justified for retention shall be returned to the issuing GSA interagency fleet management center.
Pt. 109-40

# PART 109-40—TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT

# Subpart 109-40.1—General Provisions
Sec.
109-40.000
Scope of part.
109-40.000-50
Applicability to contractors.
109-40.102
Representation before regulatory bodies.
109-40.103
Selection of carriers.
109-40.103-1
Domestic transportation.
109-40.103-2
Disqualification and suspension of carriers.
109-40.103-3
International transportation.
109-40.104
Use of Government-owned transportation equipment.
109-40.109
Utilization of special contracts and agreements.
109-40.110
Assistance to economically disadvantaged transportation businesses.
109-40.110-1
Small business assistance.
109-40.110-2
Minority business enterprises.
109-40.112
Transportation factors in the location of Government facilities.
109-40.113
Insurance against transportation hazards.

# Subpart 109-40.3—Traffic Management
109-40.301
Traffic management functions administration.
109-40.302
Standard routing principle.
109-40.303-3
Most fuel efficient carrier/mode.
109-40.304
Rate tenders to the Government.
109-40.305-50
[Reserved]
109-40.306-1
Recommended rate tender format.
109-40.306-2
Required shipping documents and annotations.
109-40.306-3
Distribution.

# Subpart 109-40.50—Bills of Lading
109-40.5000
Scope of subpart.
109-40.5001
Policy.
109-40.5002
Applicability.
109-40.5003
Commercial bills of lading.
109-40.5004
Government bills of lading.
109-40.5005
Description of property for shipment.

# Subpart 109-40.51—Price-Anderson Coverage Certifications for Nuclear Shipments
109-40.5100
Scope of subpart.
109-40.5101
Policy.

# Authority:
Sec. 161, as amended, 68 Stat. 948; 42 U.S.C. 2201; sec. 205, as amended, 63 Stat. 390; 40 U.S.C. 121; sec. 644, 91 Stat. 585, 42 U.S.C. 7254.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-40.1—General Provisions
§ 109-40.000
Scope of part.
This part describes DOE regulations governing transportation and traffic management activities. It also covers arrangements for transportation and related services by bill of lading. These regulations are designed to ensure that all transportation and traffic management activities will be carried out in the manner most advantageous to the Government in terms of economy, efficiency, service, environment, safety and security.
§ 109-40.000-50
Applicability to contractors.
DOE-PMR 109-40, Transportation and Traffic Management, should be applied to cost-type contractors' transportation and traffic management activities. Departure by cost-type contractors from the provisions of these regulations may be authorized by the contracting officer provided the practices and procedures followed are consistent with the basic policy objectives in these regulations and DOE Order 460.2, Departmental Materials Transportation and Packaging Management, except to the extent such departure is prohibited by statute or executive order.
§ 109-40.102
Representation before regulatory bodies.
Participation in proceedings related to carrier applications to regulatory bodies for temporary or permanent authority to operate in specified geographical locations shall be confined to statements or testimony in support of a need for service and shall not extend to support of individual carriers or groups of carriers.
§ 109-40.103
Selection of carriers.
§ 109-40.103-1
Domestic transportation.
(a) Preferential treatment, normally, shall not be accorded to any mode of transportation (motor, rail, air, water) or to any particular carrier when arranging for domestic transportation services. However where, for valid reasons, a particular mode of transportation or a particular carrier within that mode must be used to meet specific program requirements and/or limitations, only that mode or carrier shall be considered. Examples of valid reasons for considering only a particular mode or carrier are:
(1) Where only a certain mode of transportation or individual carrier is able to provide the needed service or is able to meet the required delivery date; and
(2) Where the consignee's installation and related facilities preclude or are not conducive to service by all modes of transportation.
(b) The following factors are considered in determining whether a carrier or mode of transportation can meet DOE's transportation service requirements for each individual shipment:
(1) Availability and suitability of carrier equipment;
(2) Carrier terminal facilities at origin and destination;
(3) Pickup and delivery service, if required;
(4) Availability of required or accessorial and special services, if needed;
(5) Estimated time in transit;
(6) Record of past performance of the carrier; and
(7) Availability and suitability of transit privileges.
§ 109-40.103-2
Disqualification and suspension of carriers.
Disqualification and suspension are measures which exclude carriers from participation, for temporary periods of time, in DOE traffic. To ensure that the Government derives the benefits of full and free competition of interested carriers, disqualification and suspension shall not apply for any period of time longer than necessary to protect the interests of the Government.
§ 109-40.103-3
International transportation.
See 49 U.S.C. 41102 for a certificate required in nonuse of U.S. flag vessels or U.S. flag certificated air carriers.
(a) U.S.-flag ocean carriers. Arrangements for international ocean transportation services shall be made in accordance with the provisions of section 901(b) of the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, as amended (46 U.S.C. 1241(b)) concerning the use of privately owned U.S.-flag vessels.
(b) U.S.-flag certificated air carriers. Arrangements for international air transportation services shall be made in accordance with the provisions of section 5(a) of the International Air Transportation Fair Competition Practices Act of 1974 (49 U.S.C. 40118), which requires the use of U.S.-flag certificated air carriers for international travel of persons or property to the extent that services by these carriers is available.
§ 109-40.104
Use of Government-owned transportation equipment.
The preferred method of transporting property for the Government is through use of the facilities and services of commercial carriers. However, Government vehicles may be used when they are available to meet emergencies and accomplish program objectives which cannot be attained through use of commercial carriers.
§ 109-40.109
Utilization of special contracts and agreements.
From time to time special transportation agreements are entered into on a Government-wide or DOE-wide basis and are applicable, generally, to DOE shipments. The HQ DOE Manager, Transportation Operations and Traffic, will distribute information on such agreements to field offices as it becomes available.
§ 109-40.110
Assistance to economically disadvantaged transportation businesses.
§ 109-40.110-1
Small business assistance.
Consistent with the policies of the Government with respect to small businesses, DOE shall place with small business concerns a fair proportion of the total purchases and contracts for transportation and related services such as packing and crating, loading and unloading, and local drayage.
§ 109-40.110-2
Minority business enterprises.
Minority business enterprises shall have the maximum practical opportunity to participate in the performance of Government contracts. DOE shall identify transportation-related minority enterprises and encourage them to provide services that will support DOE's transportation requirements.
§ 109-40.112
Transportation factors in the location of Government facilities.
Transportation rate, charges, and commercial carrier transportation services shall be considered and evaluated prior to the selection of new site locations and during the planning and construction phases in the establishment of leased or relocated Government installations or facilities to ensure that consideration is given to the various transportation factors that may be involved in this relocation or deactivation.
§ 109-40.113
Insurance against transportation hazards.
The policy of the Government with respect to insurance of its property while in the possession of commercial carriers is set forth in 41 CFR 1-19.107.

# Subpart 109-40.3—Traffic Management
§ 109-40.301
Traffic management functions administration.
The DOE traffic management functions are accomplished by established field traffic offices under provisions of appropriate Departmental directives and Headquarters' staff traffic management supervision.
§ 109-40.302
Standard routing principle.
(a) Shipments shall be routed using the mode of transportation, or individual carriers within the mode, that can provide the required service at the lowest overall delivered cost to the Government.
(b) When more than one mode of transportation, or more than one carrier within a mode, can provide equally satisfactory service at the same overall cost the traffic shall be distributed as equitably as practicable among the modes and among the carriers within the modes.
§ 109-40.303-3
Most fuel efficient carrier/mode.
When more than one mode, or more than one carrier within a mode, can satisfy the service requirements of a specific shipment at the same lowest aggregate delivered cost, the carrier/mode determined to be the most fuel efficient will be selected. In determining the most fuel efficient carrier/mode, consideration will be given to such factors as use of the carrier's equipment in “turn around” service, proximity of carrier equipment to the shipping activity, and ability of the
carrier to provide the most direct service to the destination points.
§ 109-40.304
Rate tenders to the Government.
Under the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 U.S.C. 10721), common carriers are permitted to submit to the Government tenders which contain rates lower than published tariff rates available to the general public. In addition, rates tenders may be applied to shipments other than those made by the Government provided the total benefits accrue to the Government; that is, provided the Government pays the charges or directly and completely reimburses the party that initially bears the freight charges (323 ICC 347 and 332 ICC 161).
§ 109-40.305-50
[Reserved]
§ 109-40.306-1
Recommended rate tender format.
Only those rate tenders which have been submitted by the carriers in writing shall be considered for use. Carriers should be encouraged to use the format “Uniform Tender of Rates and/or Charges for Transportation Services” when preparing and submitting rate tenders to the Government. Rate tenders that are ambiguous in meaning shall be resolved in favor of the Government.
§ 109-40.306-2
Required shipping documents and annotations.
(a) To qualify for transportation under section 10721 rates, property must be shipped by or for the Government on:
(1) Government bills of lading;
(2) Commercial bills of lading endorsed to show that these bills of lading are to be converted to Government bills of lading after delivery to the consignee;
(3) Commercial bills of lading showing that the Government is either the consignor or the consignee and endorsed with the following statement:
Transportation hereunder is for the U.S. Department of Energy, and the actual total transportation charges paid to the carrier(s) by the consignor or consignee are assignable to, and are to be reimbursed by, the Government.
(b) When a rate tender is used for transportation furnished under a cost-reimbursable contract, the following endorsement shall be used on covering commercial bills of lading:
Transportation hereunder is for the U.S. Department of Energy, and the actual total transportation charges paid to the carrier(s) by the consignor or consignee are to be reimbursed by the Government, pursuant to cost-reimbursable contract number (insert contract number). This may be confirmed by contacting the agency representative at (name and telephone number).
See 332 ICC 161.
(c) To ensure proper application of a Government rate tender on all shipments qualifying for their use, the issuing officer shall show on the bills of lading covering such shipments the applicable rate tender number and carrier identification, such as: “Section 10721 tender, ABC Transportation Company, ICC No. 374.” In addition, if commercial bills of lading are used, they shall be endorsed as specified above.
§ 109-40.306-3
Distribution.
Each agency receiving rate tenders shall promptly submit one signed copy to the Transportation and Public Utilities Service (WIT), General Services Administration, Washington, DC 20407. Also, two copies (including at least one signed copy) shall be promptly submitted to the General Services Administration (TA), Chester A. Arthur Building, Washington, DC 20406.

# Subpart 109-40.50—Bills of Lading
§ 109-40.5000
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth the requirements under which commercial or Government bills of lading may be used.
§ 109-40.5001
Policy.
Generally DOE cost-type contractors will use commercial bills of lading in making shipments for the account of DOE. Cost-type contractors may be authorized by the contracting officer to use Government bills of lading if such use will be advantageous to the Government. Such authorizations shall be coordinated with the HQ DOE Manager, Transportation Operations and Traffic.
§ 109-40.5002
Applicability.
The policy and procedures set forth in this subpart shall be applied when DOE's cost-type contractors use commercial bills of lading.
§ 109-40.5003
Commercial bills of lading.
(a) DOE's cost-type contractors using commercial bills of lading in making shipments for the account of DOE shall include the following statement on all commercial bills of lading:
This shipment is for the account of the U.S. Government which will assume the freight charges and is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the standard form of the U.S. Government bills of lading and to any available special rates or charges.
(b) The language in paragraph (a) of this section may be varied without materially changing its substance to satisfy the needs of particular cost-type contractors for the purpose of obtaining the benefit of the lowest available rates for the account of the Government.
(c) Where practicable, commercial bills of lading shall provide for consignment of a shipment to DOE c/o the cost-type contractor or by the contractor “for the DOE.”
(d) Commercial bills of lading exceeding $10,000 issued by cost-type contractors shall be annotated with a typewritten, rubber stamp, or similar impression containing the following wording:
Equal Employment Opportunity. All provisions of Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 11375, and of the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor are incorporated herein.
§ 109-40.5004
Government bills of lading.
In those instances where DOE cost-type contractors are authorized to use Government bills of lading, specific employees of cost-type contractors will be authorized by the contracting officer to issue such Government bills of lading (see Title V, U.S. Government Accounting Office Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies).
§ 109-40.5005
Description of property for shipment.
(a) Each shipment shall be described on the bill of lading or other shipping document as specified by the governing freight classification, carrier's tariff, or rate tender. Shipments shall be described as specifically as possible. Trade names such as “Foamite” or “Formica,” or general terms such as “vehicles,” “furniture,” or “Government supplies,” shall not be used as bill of lading descriptions.
(b) A shipment containing hazardous materials, such as explosives, radioactive materials, flammable liquids, flammable solids, oxidizers, or poison A or poison B, shall be prepared for shipment and described on bills of lading or other shipping documents in accordance with the Department of Transportation Hazardous Materials Regulation, 49 CFR, subchapter C.

# Subpart 109-40.51—Price-Anderson Coverage Certifications for Nuclear Shipments
§ 109-40.5100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth the policy for issuance of certifications regarding Price-Anderson coverage of particular shipments of nuclear materials.
§ 109-40.5101
Policy.
Upon request of a carrier, an appropriate certification will be issued by an authorized representative of the DOE to the carrier regarding the applicability of Price-Anderson indemnity to a particular shipment. Copies of such certifications, if performed by a Field Manager or a DOE cost-type contractor, shall be provided to the HQ DOE Manager, Transportation Operations and Traffic.
SUBCHAPTERS B-G [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER H—UTILIZATION AND DISPOSAL
Pt. 109-42

# PART 109-42—UTILIZATION AND DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF PROPERTY

# Subpart 109-42.11—Special Types of Hazardous Material and Certain Categories of Property
Sec.
109-42.1100.50
Scope of subpart.
109-42.1100.51
Policy.
109-42.1102-8
United States Munitions List items which require demilitarization.
109-42.1102-51
Suspect personal property.
109-42.1102-52
Low level contaminated personal property.

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-42.11—Special Types of Hazardous Material and Certain Categories of Property
§ 109-42.1100.50
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth policies and procedures for the utilization and disposal outside of DOE of excess and surplus personal property which has been radioactively or chemically contaminated.
§ 109-42.1100.51
Policy.
When the holding organization determines it is appropriate to dispose of contaminated personal property, it shall be disposed of by DOE in accordance with appropriate Federal regulations governing radiation/chemical exposure and environmental contamination. In special cases where Federal regulations do not exist or apply, appropriate state and local regulations shall be followed.
§ 109-42.1102-8
United States Munitions List items which require demilitarization.
Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall determine demilitarization requirements regarding combat material and military personal property using DoD 4160.21-M-1, Defense Demilitarization Manual as a guide.
§ 109-42.1102-51
Suspect personal property.
(a) Excess personal property (including scrap) having a history of use in an area where radioactive or chemical contamination may occur shall be considered suspect and shall be monitored using appropriate instruments and techniques by qualified personnel of the DOE office or contractor generating the excess.
(b) With due consideration to the economic factors involved, every effort shall be made to reduce the level of contamination of excess or surplus personal property to the lowest practicable level. Contaminated personal property that exceeds applicable contamination standards shall not be utilized or disposed outside DOE.
(c) If contamination is suspected and the property is of such size, construction, or location as to make testing for contamination impossible, the property shall not be utilized or disposed outside of DOE.
§ 109-42.1102-52
Low level contaminated personal property.
If monitoring of suspect personal property indicates that contamination does not exceed applicable standards, it may be utilized and disposed of in the same manner as uncontaminated personal property, provided the guidance in § 109-45.5005-1(a) of this chapter has been considered. However, recipients shall be advised where levels of radioactive contamination require specific controls for shipment as provided in Department of Transportation Regulations (49 CFR parts 171-179) for shipment of radioactive personal property. In addition, when any contaminated personal property is screened within DOE, reported to GSA, or otherwise disposed of, the kind and degree of contamination must be plainly indicated on all pertinent documents.
Pt. 109-43

# PART 109-43—UTILIZATION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
Sec.
109-43.001
Definition.

# Subpart 109-43.1—General Provisions
109-43.101
Agency utilization reviews.
109-43.103
Agency utilization officials.

# Subpart 109-43.3—Utilization of Excess
109-43.302
Agency responsibility.
109-43.302-50
Utilization by designated contractors.
109-43.304
Reporting requirements.
109-43.304-1
Reporting.
109-43.304-1.50
DOE reutilization screening.
109-43.304-1.51
[Reserved]
109-43.304-2
[Reserved]
109-43.304-4
[Reserved]
109-43.305
[Reserved]
109-43.305-50
Nuclear-related and proliferation-sensitive personal property.
109-43.307
Items requiring special handling.
109-43.307-2
Hazardous materials.
109-43.307-2.50
Monitoring of hazardous personal property.
109-43.307-2.51
Holding hazardous personal property.
109-43.307-50
Export controlled personal property.
109-43.307-51
Classified personal property.
109-43.307-52
Nuclear-related or proliferation-sensitive personal property.
109-43.307-53
Information Technology (IT).
109-43.307-54
Unsafe personal property.
109-43.312
Use of excess personal property on cost-reimbursement contracts.
109-43.313
Use of excess personal property on cooperative agreements.
109-43.314
Use of excess personal property on grants.

# Subpart 109-43.5—Utilization of Foreign Excess Personal Property
109-43.502
Holding agency responsibilities.

# Subpart 109-43.47—Reports
109-43.4701
Performance reports.

# Subpart 109-43.50—Utilization of Personal Property Held for Facilities in Standby
109-43.5000
Scope of subpart.
109-43.5001
Definition.
109-43.5002
Reviews to determine need for retaining items.

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 109-43.001
Definition.
DOE screening period
means the period of time that reportable existing personal property is screened throughout DOE for reutilization purposes and, for selected items, through the Used Laboratory Equipment Donation Program (LEDP).

# Subpart 109-43.1—General Provisions
§ 109-43.101
Agency utilization reviews.
DOE offices and designated contractors are responsible for continuously surveying property under their control to assure maximum use, and shall promptly identify property that is excess to their needs and make it available for use elsewhere.
§ 109-43.103
Agency utilization officials.
The Property Executive is designated as the DOE National Utilization Officer.

# Subpart 109-43.3—Utilization of Excess
§ 109-43.302
Agency responsibility.
§ 109-43.302-50
Utilization by designated contractors.
Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) may authorize designated contractors to perform the functions pertaining to the utilization of excess personal property normally performed by a Federal agency, provided the designated contractors have written policies and procedures.
§ 109-43.304
Reporting requirements.
§ 109-43.304-1
Reporting.
§ 109-43.304-1.50
DOE reutilization screening.
(a) Personal property must be processed through DOE electronic internal screening prior to reporting excess personal property to GSA.
(b) An additional 30-day screening period shall be allocated for items eligible for screening by educational institutions through LEDP.
(c) Items in FSCG 66 (Instruments and Laboratory Equipment), 70 (General Purpose Information Processing Equipment (including firmware)), and 99 (Miscellaneous) are reportable.
(d) The Department of Energy National Utilization Officer (NUO) may authorize in exceptional or unusual cases when time is critical, screening of excess property may be accomplished by with due consideration given to the additional costs involved. Examples of situations when this method of screening would be used are when there is a requirement for quick disposal actions due to unplanned contract terminations or facilities closing; to alleviate the paying of storage costs; when storage space is critical; to process exchange/sale transactions; property dangerous to public health and safety; property determined to be classified or otherwise sensitive for reasons of national security (when classified communications facilities are used); or for hazardous materials which may not be disposed of outside of the Department.
(e) Concurrent DOE and Federal agency screening shall not be conducted.
§ 109-43.304-1.51
[Reserved]
§ 109-43.304-2
[Reserved]
§ 109-43.304-4
[Reserved]
§ 109-43.305
[Reserved]
§ 109-43.305-50
Nuclear-related and proliferation-sensitive personal property.
Nuclear-related and proliferation-sensitive property is not reportable and shall not be formally screened within DOE or reported to GSA.
§ 109-43.307
Items requiring special handling.
§ 109-43.307-2
Hazardous materials.
§ 109-43.307-2.50
Monitoring of hazardous personal property.
To provide assurance that hazardous personal property is not being inadvertently released from the site by transfer or sale to the public, all hazardous or suspected hazardous personal property shall be checked for contamination by environmental, safety, and health officials. Contamination-free personal property will be tagged with a certification tag authorizing release for transfer or sale. Contaminated personal property will be referred back to the program office for appropriate action.
§ 109-43.307-2.51
Holding hazardous personal property.
Excess or surplus hazardous personal property shall not be commingled with non-hazardous personal property while waiting disposition action.
§ 109-43.307-50
Export controlled personal property.
(a) When personal property that is subject to export controls is being exported directly by DOE (
e.g.,
a transfer of nuclear equipment or materials as part of a program of cooperation with another country), DOE or the DOE contractor must obtain the necessary export license.
(b) When personal property subject to export controls is transferred under work-for-others agreements, co-operative agreements, or technical programs, the recipients will be informed in writing that:
(1) The property is subject to export controls;
(2) They are responsible for obtaining export licenses or authorizations prior to transferring or moving the property to another country; and
(3) They are required to pass on export control guidance if they transfer the property to another domestic or foreign recipient.
§ 109-43.307-51
Classified personal property.
Classified personal property which is excess to DOE needs shall be stripped of all characteristics which cause it to be classified, or otherwise rendered unclassified, as determined by the cognizant program office, prior to any disposition action. The cognizant program office shall certify that appropriate action has been taken to declassify the personal property as required. Declassification shall be accomplished in a manner which will preserve, so far as practicable, any civilian utility or commercial value of the personal property.
§ 109-43.307-52
Nuclear-related or proliferation-sensitive personal property.
(a) Recognizing that property disposal officials will not have the technical knowledge to identify nuclear-related and proliferation-sensitive personal property, all such personal property shall be physically tagged with a certification signed by an authorized program official at time of determination by the program office of the personal property as excess. Such an authorized official should be designated in writing with signature cards on file in the property office.
(b) Nuclear-related and proliferation-sensitive personal property which is excess to DOE needs shall be stripped of all characteristics which cause it to be nuclear-related or proliferation-sensitive personal property, as determined by the cognizant program office, prior to disposal. The cognizant program office shall certify that appropriate actions have been taken to strip the personal property as required, or shall provide the property disposal office with adequate instructions for stripping the items. Such action shall be accomplished in a manner which will preserve, so far as practicable, any civilian utility or commercial value of the personal property.
§ 109-43.307-53
Information Technology (IT).
All IT shall be sanitized before being transferred into excess to ensure that all data, information, and software has been removed from the equipment. Designated computer support personnel must indicate that the equipment has been sanitized by attaching a certification tag to the item. Sanitized IT will be utilized and disposed in accordance with the provisions of the FPMR/FMR.
§ 109-43.307-54
Unsafe personal property.
Personal property that is considered defective or unsafe must be mutilated prior to shipment for disposal.
§ 109-43.312
Use of excess personal property on cost-reimbursement contracts.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) It is DOE policy for designated contractors to use Government excess personal property to the maximum extent possible to reduce contract costs. However, the determination required in 41 CFR 101-43.312(b) does not apply to such contracts, and a DOE official is not required to execute transfer orders for authorized designated contractors. The procedures prescribed in 41 CFR 101-43.309-5 for execution of transfer orders apply.
§ 109-43.313
Use of excess personal property on cooperative agreements.
(a)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall ensure that required records are maintained in a current status.
§ 109-43.314
Use of excess personal property on grants.
(a)-(e) [Reserved]
(f) Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall ensure that the records required by 41 CFR 101-43.314(f) are maintained.

# Subpart 109-43.5—Utilization of Foreign Excess Personal Property
§ 109-43.502
Holding agency responsibilities.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) Property which remains excess after utilization screening within the general foreign geographical area where the property is located shall be reported to the accountable field office or Headquarters program organization for consideration for return to the United States for further DOE or other Federal utilization. The decision to return property will be based on such factors as acquisition cost, residual value, condition, usefulness, and cost of transportation.

# Subpart 109-43.47—Reports
§ 109-43.4701
Performance reports.
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c) The annual report of personal property furnished (
e.g.,
transfers, gifts, loans, leases, license agreements, and sales) to non-Federal recipients, including elementary and secondary schools, is furnished to GSA in accordance with 41 CFR 102-38. Internal DOE
personal property reports must be submitted to the Office of Management at the date determined by the Property Executive.

# Subpart 109-43.50—Utilization of Personal Property Held for Facilities in Standby
§ 109-43.5000
Scope of subpart.
This subpart supplements 41 CFR part 101-43 by providing policies and procedures for the economic and efficient utilization of personal property associated with facilities placed in standby status.
§ 109-43.5001
Definition.
Facility in standby
means a complete plant or section of a plant, which is neither in service or declared excess.
§ 109-43.5002
Reviews to determine need for retaining items.
Procedures and practices shall require an initial review at the time the plant is placed in standby to determine which items can be made available for use elsewhere within the established start-up criteria; periodic reviews (no less than biennially) to determine need for continued retention of property; and special reviews when a change in start-up time is made or when circumstances warrant. Such procedures should recognize that:
(a) Equipment, spares, stores items, and materials peculiar to a plant should be retained for possible future operation of the plant;
(b) Where practicable, common-use stores should be removed and used elsewhere; and
(c) Uninstalled equipment and other personal property not required should be utilized elsewhere on-site or be disposed of as excess.
Pt. 109-44

# PART 109-44—DONATION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY

# Subpart 109-44.7—Donations of Property to Public Bodies
Sec.
109-44.701
Findings justifying donation to public bodies.
109-44.702
Donations to public bodies.
109-44.702-3
Hazardous materials.

# Authority:
Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 390; 40 U.S.C. 121.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-44.7—Donations of Property to Public Bodies
§ 109-44.701
Findings justifying donation to public bodies.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall appoint officials to make required findings and reviews.
§ 109-44.702
Donations to public bodies.
§ 109-44.702-3
Hazardous materials.
The Office of Management and Heads of field organizations) shall be responsible for the safeguards, notifications, and certifications required by 41 CFR part 101-42 and part 109-42 of this chapter, as well as compliance with all other requirements therein.
Pt. 109-45

# PART 109-45—SALE, ABANDONMENT, OR DESTRUCTION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY

# Subpart 109-45.1—General
Sec.
109-45.105
Exclusions and exemptions.
109-45.105-3
Exemptions.

# Subpart 109-45.3—Sale of Personal Property
109-45.300-50
Sales by designated contractors.
109-45.301-51
Export/import clause.
109-45.302
Sale to Government employees.
109-45.302-50
Sales to DOE employees and designated contractor employees.
109-45.303
Reporting property for sale.
109-45.303-3
Delivery.
109-45.304
Sales methods and procedures.
109-45.304-2
Negotiated sales and negotiated sales at fixed prices.
109-45.304-2.50
Negotiated sales and negotiated sales at fixed prices by designated contractors.
109-45.304-6
Reviewing authority.
109-45.304-50
Processing bids and awarding of contracts.
109-45.304-51
Documentation.
109-45.309
Special classes of property.
109-45.309-2.50
Hazardous property.
109-45.309-51
Export controlled property.
109-45.309-52
Classified property.
109-45.309-53
Nuclear-related or proliferation-sensitive property.
109-45.309-54
Information Technology (IT).
109-45.310
Antitrust laws.
109-45.317
Noncollusive bids and proposals.

# Subpart 109-45.9—Abandonment or Destruction of Personal Property
109-45.901
Authority to abandon or destroy.
109-45.902
Findings justifying abandonment or destruction.
109-45.902-2
Abandonment or destruction without notice.

# Subpart 109-45.10—Recovery of Precious Metals
109-45.1002
Agency responsibilities.
109-45.1002-3
Precious metals recovery program monitor.
109-45.1003
Recovery of silver from precious metals bearing materials.
109-45.1004
Recovery and use of precious metals through the DOD Precious Metals Recovery Program.

# Subpart 109-45.47—Reports
109-45.4702
Negotiated sales reports.

# Subpart 109-45.50—Excess and Surplus Radioactively and Chemically Contaminated Personal Property
109-45.5005
Disposal.
109-45.5005-1
General.

# Subpart 109-45.51—Disposal of Excess and Surplus Personal Property in Foreign Areas
109-45.5100
Scope of subpart.
109-45.5101
Authority.
109-45.5102
General.
109-45.5103
Definitions.
109-45.5104
Disposal.
109-45.5104-1
General.
109-45.5104-2
Methods of disposal.
109-45.5105
Reports.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 109-45.1—General
§ 109-45.105
Exclusions and exemptions.
§ 109-45.105-3
Exemptions.
GSA, by letter dated May 28, 1965, exempted contractor inventory held by DOE designated contractors from the GSA conducted sales provisions of 41 CFR 101-45.

# Subpart 109-45.3—Sale of Personal Property
§ 109-45.300-50
Sales by designated contractors.
Sales of surplus contractor inventory will be conducted by designated contractors when Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) determine that it is in the best interest of the Government. OPMOs and appropriate program officials shall perform sufficient oversight over these sales to ensure that personal property requiring special handling or program office certification is sold in accordance with regulatory requirements.
§ 109-45.301-51
Export/import clause.
The following clause shall be included in all sales invitations for bid:
Personal property purchased from the U.S. Government may or may not be authorized for export/import from/into the country where the personal property is located. If export/import is allowed, the purchaser is solely responsible for obtaining required clearances or approvals. The purchaser also is required to provide to the appropriate party DOE's export control guidance if the property is resold or otherwise disposed.
§ 109-45.302
Sale to Government employees.
§ 109-45.302-50
Sales to DOE employees and designated contractor employees.
(a) DOE employees and employees of designated contractors shall be given the same opportunity to acquire Government personal property as is given to the general public, provided the employees warrant in writing prior to award that they have not either directly or indirectly:
(1) Obtained information not otherwise available to the general public regarding usage, condition, quality, or value of the personal property, or
(2) Participated in:
(i) The determination to dispose of the personal property;
(ii) The preparation of the personal property for sale; and
(iii) Determining the method of sale.
(b) Excess or otherwise unusable special, fitted clothing and other articles of personal property, acquired for the
exclusive use of an individual employee, may be sold to the employee for the best price obtainable when the property is no longer required by the holding organization or the employee is terminated.
§ 109-45.303
Reporting property for sale.
§ 109-45.303-3
Delivery.
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c) Guidelines for signature authorization and control of blank copies of Standard Form 97, United States Government Certificate to Obtain Title to a Vehicle are contained in subpart 109-38.7 of this chapter.
§ 109-45.304
Sales methods and procedures.
§ 109-45.304-2
Negotiated sales and negotiated sales at fixed prices.
(a)(1) [Reserved]
(2) The head of each field organization shall designate a responsible person to approve negotiated sales by DOE direct operations.
(3) Requests for prior approval of negotiated sales by DOE direct operations shall be submitted with justification to the OPMO for review and forwarding to GSA for approval.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 109-45.304-2.50
Negotiated sales and negotiated sales at fixed prices by designated contractors.
(a) Negotiated sales by designated contractors of surplus contractor inventory may be made when the DOE contracting officer determines and documents prior to the sale that the use of this method of sale is justified on the basis of the circumstances enumerated below, provided that the Government's interests are adequately protected. These sales shall be at prices which are fair and reasonable and not less than the proceeds which could reasonably be expected to be obtained if the personal property was offered for competitive sale. Specific conditions justifying negotiated sales include:
(1) No acceptable bids have been received as a result of competitive bidding under a suitable advertised sale;
(2) Personal property is of such small value that the proceeds to be derived would not warrant the expense of a formal competitive sale;
(3) The disposal will be to a state, territory, possession, political subdivision thereof, or tax-supported agency therein, and the estimated fair market value of the personal property and other satisfactory terms of disposal are obtained by negotiation;
(4) The specialized nature and limited use potential of the personal property would create negligible bidder interest;
(5) Removal of the personal property would result in a significant reduction in value, or the accrual of disproportionate expense in handling; or
(6) It can be clearly established that such action is in the best interests of the Government.
(b) When determined to be in the best interests of the Government, Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) may authorize fixed-price sales of surplus contractor inventory by designated contractors provided:
(1) The fair market value of the item to be sold does not exceed $15,000;
(2) Adequate procedures for publicizing such sales have been established;
(3) The sales prices are not less than could reasonably be expected if competitive bid sales methods were employed and the prices have been approved by a reviewing authority designated by the head of the field organization; and
(4) The warranty prescribed in § 109-45.302-50(a) of this subpart is obtained when sales are made to employees.
§ 109-45.304-6
Reviewing authority.
The reviewing authority may consist of one or more persons designated by the head of the field organization.
§ 109-45.304-50
Processing bids and awarding of contracts.
The procedures established in 48 CFR 14.4 and 48 CFR 914.4 shall be made applicable to the execution, receipt, safeguarding, opening, abstraction, and evaluation of bids and awarding contracts, except that in evaluating bids and awarding contracts, disposal under conditions most advantageous to the Government based on high bids received shall be the determining factor.
§ 109-45.304-51
Documentation.
Files pertaining to surplus property sales shall contain copies of all documents necessary to provide a complete record of the sales transactions and shall include the following as appropriate:
(a) A copy of the request/invitation for bids if a written request/invitation for bids is employed. A list of items or lots sold, indicating acquisition cost, upset price and sales price indicated.
(b) A copy of the advertising literature distributed to prospective bidders.
(c) A list of prospective bidders solicited.
(d) An abstract of bids received.
(e) Copies of bids received, including Standard Form 119, Contractor's Statement of Contingent or Other Fees, together with other relevant information.
(f) A statement concerning the basis for determination that proceeds constitute a reasonable return for property sold.
(g) When appropriate, full and adequate justification for not advertising the sale when the fair market value of property sold in this manner in any one case exceeds $1,000.
(h) A justification concerning any award made to other than the high bidder.
(i) The approval of the reviewing authority when required.
(j) A copy of the notice of award.
(k) All related correspondence.
(l) In the case of auction or spot bid sales, the following additional information should be included:
(1) A summary listing of the advertising used (
e.g.,
newspapers, radio, television, and public postings).
(2) The names of the prospective bidders who attended the sale.
(3) A copy of any pertinent contract for auctioneering services and related documents.
(4) A reference to files containing record of deposits and payments.
§ 109-45.309
Special classes of property.
§ 109-45.309-2.50
Hazardous property.
Hazardous property shall be made available for sale only after the review and certification requirements of § 109-43.307-2.50 of this subpart have been met.
§ 109-45.309-51
Export controlled property.
Export controlled property shall be made available for sale only after the export license requirements of § 109-43.307-50 of this subpart have been met.
§ 109-45.309-52
Classified property.
Classified property shall be made available for sale only after the declassification requirements of § 109-43.307-51 of this subpart have been met.
§ 109-45.309-53
Nuclear-related or proliferation-sensitive property.
Nuclear-related or proliferation-sensitive property shall be made available for sale only after the stripping and certification requirements of § 109-43.307-52 of this subpart have been met.
§ 109-45.309-54
Information Technology (IT).
IT shall be made available for sale only after the sanitizing and certification requirements of § 109-43.307-53 of this subpart have been met.
§ 109-45.310
Antitrust laws.
DOE offices shall submit to the Office of Management any request for a proposed sale of a patent, process, technique, or invention, regardless of cost; or of surplus personal property with a fair market value of $3,000,000 or more.
§ 109-45.317
Noncollusive bids and proposals.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) The head of the field organization shall make the determination required in 41 CFR 101-45.317(b). This authority cannot be redelegated.

# Subpart 109-45.9—Abandonment or Destruction of Personal Property
§ 109-45.901
Authority to abandon or destroy.
Personal property in the possession of DOE offices or designated contractors may be abandoned or destroyed provided that a written determination has been made by the OPMO/PA that property has no commercial value or
the estimated cost of its continued care and handling would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale.
§ 109-45.902
Findings justifying abandonment or destruction.
§ 109-45.902-2
Abandonment or destruction without notice.
The head of the field organization shall designate an official to make the findings justifying abandonment or destruction without public notice of personal property. The OPMO/PA shall review and coordinate on the findings.

# Subpart 109-45.10—Recovery of Precious Metals
§ 109-45.1002
Agency responsibilities.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) are responsible for establishing a program for the recovery of precious metals.
§ 109-45.1002-3
Precious metals recovery program monitor.
The Office of Management shall be the precious metals recovery program monitor.
§ 109-45.1003
Recovery of silver from precious metals bearing materials.
The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) are responsible for the establishment and maintenance of a program for silver recovery from used hypo solution and scrap film.
§ 109-45.1004
Recovery and use of precious metals through the DOD Precious Metals Recovery Program.
DOE operates its own precious metals pool and therefore does not participate in the DOD Precious Metals Recovery Program. See § 109-27.5106 of this chapter for guidance on operation of the DOE precious metals pool.

# Subpart 109-45.47—Reports
§ 109-45.4702
Negotiated sales reports.
The report of negotiated sales shall be submitted by DOE offices to GSA, in accordance with 41 CFR 102-38.

# Subpart 109-45.50—Excess and Surplus Radioactively and Chemically Contaminated Personal Property
§ 109-45.5005
Disposal.
§ 109-45.5005-1
General.
(a) Nuclear-related, proliferation-sensitive, low level contaminated property, and classified personal property shall not be transferred, sold, exchanged, leased, donated, abandoned, or destroyed without approval of the cognizant program office. Disposal of this personal property is subject to the restrictions contained in applicable sections of part 109-42 and §§ 109-43.307-50, 109-43.307-51, and 109-43.307-52 of this chapter, and applicable sections of 41 CFR part 101-42.
(b) Personal property that is considered defective or unsafe must be mutilated prior to shipment for disposal.

# Subpart 109-45.51—Disposal of Excess and Surplus Personal Property in Foreign Areas
§ 109-45.5100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth policies and procedures governing the disposal of DOE-owned foreign excess and surplus personal property.
§ 109-45.5101
Authority.
The policies and procedures contained in this subpart are issued pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, former 40 U.S.C.
et seq
., as amended. Title IV of the Act entitled “Foreign Excess Property” provides that, except where commitments exist under previous agreements, all excess personal property located in foreign areas shall be disposed of by the owning agency, and directs that the head of the agency conform to the foreign policy of the United States in making such disposals in accordance 41 CFR 102-36.
§ 109-45.5102
General.
Disposal of Government-owned personal property in the custody of DOE organizations or its contractors in foreign areas shall be made in an efficient
and economical manner, and in conformance with the foreign policy of the United States.
§ 109-45.5103
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Foreign
means outside the United States, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Virgin Islands.
Foreign service post
means the local diplomatic or consular post in the area where the excess personal property is located.
§ 109-45.5104
Disposal.
§ 109-45.5104-1
General.
Foreign excess personal property which is not required for transfer within DOE or to other U.S. Government agencies, except for the personal property identified in § 109-45.5005-1(a) of this part, shall be considered surplus and may be disposed of by transfer, sale, exchange, or lease, for cash, credit, or other property and upon such other terms and conditions as may be deemed proper. Such personal property may also be donated, abandoned, or destroyed under the conditions specified in § 109-45.5105-2 of this subpart. Most foreign governments have indicated to the U.S. State Department that they wish to be consulted before U.S. Government property is disposed of in their countries (except in the case of transfers to other U.S. Government agencies). Matters concerning customs duties and taxes, or similar charges, may require prior agreement with the foreign government involved. The State Department shall be contacted in regard to these issues. Whenever advice or approval of the State Department is required by this subpart, it may be obtained either through the foreign service post in the foreign area involved or from the State Department in Washington, DC. If the issue is to be presented to the State Department in Washington, DC, it shall be referred through appropriate administrative channels to the Office of International Affairs for review, coordination, and handling.
§ 109-45.5104-2
Methods of disposal.
(a) Sales of foreign surplus personal property shall be conducted in accordance with the following guidelines:
(1) Generally, all sales of foreign surplus personal property shall be conducted under the competitive bid process unless it is advantageous and more practicable to the Government not to do so. When competitive bids are not solicited, reasonable inquiry of prospective purchasers shall be made in order that sales may be made on terms most advantageous to the U.S. Government.
(2) In no event shall any personal property be sold in foreign areas without a condition which states that its importation into the United States is forbidden unless the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture (in the case of any agricultural commodity, food, cotton, or woolen goods), or the U.S. Secretary of Commerce (in the case of any other property), has determined that the importation of such property would relieve domestic shortages or otherwise be beneficial to the economy of the United States.
(3) Sales documents shall provide that the purchaser must pay any import duties or taxes levied against personal property sold in the country involved and further provide that the amount of this duty or tax shall not be included as a part of the price paid the U.S. Government for the personal property. In the event the levy is placed upon the seller by law, the buyer will be required to pay all such duties or taxes and furnish the seller copies of his receipts prior to the release of the personal property to him. However, if the foreign government involved will not accept payment from the buyer, the seller will collect the duties or taxes and turn the amounts collected over to the foreign government. Accounting for the amounts collected shall be coordinated with the disbursing officer of the nearest United States foreign service post. The property shall not be released to the purchaser until the disposal officer is satisfied that there is no responsibility for payment by the United States (as contrasted to collection by the United States) of taxes, duties, excises, etc.
(4) Advance approval must be obtained from the State Department for the sale of certain categories of personal property, including small arms and machine guns; artillery and projectiles; ammunition, bombs, torpedoes, rockets and guided missiles; fire control equipment and range finders; tanks and ordnance vehicles; chemical and biological agents, propellants and explosives; vessels of war and special naval equipment; aircraft and all components, parts and accessories for aircraft; military electronic equipment; aerial cameras, military photo-interpretation, stereoscopic plotting and photogrammetry equipment; and all material not enumerated which is included in the United States Munitions List, 22 CFR 121.01, and is subject to disposal restrictions. Therefore, prior to the sale of any of the articles enumerated in the U.S. Munitions List, the foreign service post in the area shall be consulted.
(5) All proposed sales, regardless of the total acquisition cost of personal property involved, which the head of the DOE foreign office believes might have a significant economic or political impact in a particular area, shall be discussed with the foreign service post.
(b) While there is authority for exchange or lease of foreign surplus personal property, such authority shall be exercised only when such action is clearly in the best interests of the U.S. Government. Disposals by exchange are subject to the same requirements as disposals by sale under § 109-45.5105-2 of this subpart.
(c)(1) Foreign excess or surplus personal property (including salvage and scrap) may be donated, abandoned, or destroyed provided:
(i) The property has no commercial value or the estimated cost of its care and handling would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale; and
(ii) A written finding to that effect is made and approved by the Office of International Affairs.
(2) No personal property shall be abandoned or destroyed if donation is feasible. Donations under these conditions may be made to any agency of the U.S. Government, or to educational, public health, or charitable nonprofit organizations.
(3) Foreign excess personal property may also be abandoned or destroyed when such action is required by military necessity, safety, or considerations of health or security. A written statement explaining the basis for disposal by these means and approval by the Office of International Affairs.
(4) Property shall not be abandoned or destroyed in a manner which is detrimental or dangerous to public health and safety, or which will cause infringement on the rights of other persons.
§ 109-45.5105
Reports.
(a) Proposed sales of foreign surplus personal property shall include all pertinent data, including the following:
(1) The description of personal property to be sold, including:
(i) Identification of personal property (description should be in terms understandable to persons not expert in technical nomenclature). Personal property covered by the U.S. Munitions List and regulations pertaining thereto (as published in 22 CFR 121.1) should be clearly identified;
(ii) Quantity;
(iii) Condition; and
(iv) Acquisition cost.
(2) The proposed method of sale (
e.g.,
sealed bid, negotiated sale, etc.)
(3) Any currency to be received and payment provisions (
i.e.,
U.S. dollars, foreign currency, or credit, including terms of the proposed sale).
(4) Any restrictions on use of personal property to be sold (such as resale of property, disposal as scrap, demilitarization, etc.).
(5) Any special terms or conditions of sale.
(6) The categories of prospective purchasers (
e.g.,
host country, other foreign countries, special qualifications, etc.).
(7) How taxes, excises, duties, etc., will be handled.
(b) [Reserved]
Pt. 109-46

# PART 109-46—UTILIZATION AND DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE/SALE AUTHORITY
Sec.
109-46.000
Scope of part.
109-46.000-50
Applicability.

# Subpart 109-46.2—Authorization
109-46.202
Restrictions and limitations.
109-46.203
Special authorizations.

# Authority:
Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 390; 40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 109-46.000
Scope of part.
§ 109-46.000-50
Applicability.
(a) Except as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section, the requirements of FPMR/FMR part 101-46 and this part are not applicable to designated contractors. Designated contractors shall comply with the following FPMR/FMR requirements:
(1) 101-46.200;
(2) 101-46.201-1;
(3) 101-46.202(b)(2), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7);
(4) 101-46.202(c)(1), (2), (4), (5), (6), (7), (10), (11), and (12);
(5) 101-46.202(d).
(b) Items in the following Federal Supply Classification Groups (FSCG) are not eligible for processing under the exchange/sale provision. Requests for waivers must be processed through the DPMO to GSA.

# Description

# FSCG
10 Weapons
11 Nuclear ordnance
12 Fire control equipment
14 Guided missiles
15 Aircraft and airframe structural components (except FSC Class 1560, Airframe structural components)
20 Ship and marine equipment
22 Railway equipment
41 Firefighting, rescue, and safety equipment

# Subpart 109-46.2—Authorization
§ 109-46.202
Restrictions and limitations.
(a)-(c)(9) [Reserved]
(10) The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations shall designate an official to make the certification that a continuing valid requirement exists for excess personal property acquired and placed in official use for less than one year but no longer required and is to be disposed of under the exchange/sale provisions.
(11) [Reserved]
(12) Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) shall make the determination concerning demilitarization of combat material.
§ 109-46.203
Special authorizations.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) The Office of Management and Program Secretarial Officer (PSO) for their respective organizations shall designate an official to make the certification concerning the exchange of historic items for historical preservation or display..
Pt. 109-48

# PART 109-48—UTILIZATION, DONATION, OR DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED AND FORFEITED PERSONAL PROPERTY
Sec.
109-48.000
Scope of part.
109-48.000-50
Applicability.

# Subpart 109-48.1—Utilization of Abandoned and Forfeited Personal Property
109-48.101
Forfeited or voluntarily abandoned property.
109-48.101-6
Transfer to other Federal agencies.

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 121.

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 109-48.000
Scope of part.
§ 109-48.000-50
Applicability.
This part is applicable to contractor operations where the abandoned or forfeited personal property is found on
premises owned or leased by the Government that are managed and operated by designated contractors.

# Subpart 109-48.1—Utilization of Abandoned and Forfeited Personal Property
§ 109-48.101
Forfeited or voluntarily abandoned property.
§ 109-48.101-6
Transfer to other Federal agencies.
(a)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) Transfer orders for forfeited or voluntarily abandoned distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages for medicinal, scientific, or mechanical purposes or any other official purposes for which appropriated funds may be expended by a Government agency shall be forwarded through normal administrative channels for signature by the DPMO and for subsequent forwarding to GSA for release.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) Transfer orders for reportable forfeited drug paraphernalia shall be forwarded through normal administrative channels for signature by the Property Executive and for subsequent forwarding to GSA for approval.
Pt. 109-50

# PART 109-50—SPECIAL DOE DISPOSAL AUTHORITIES
Sec.
109-50.000
Scope of part.
109-50.001
Applicability.

# Subpart 109-50.1—Laboratory Equipment Donation Program Grant Program
109-50.100
Scope of subpart.
109-50.101
Applicability.
109-50.102
General.
109-50.103
Definitions.
109-50.104
Equipment which may be granted.
109-50.105
Equipment which may not be granted.
109-50.106
Procedure.
109-50.107
Reporting.

# Subpart 109-50.2—Math and Science Equipment Gift Program
109-50.200
Scope of subpart.
109-50.201
Applicability.
109-50.202
Definitions.
109-50.203
Eligible equipment.
109-50.204
Limitations.
109-50.205
Procedure.
109-50.206
Reporting.
Subpart 109-50.3 [Reserved]

# Subpart 109-50.4—Programmatic Disposal to Contractors of DOE Property in a Mixed Facility
109-50.400
Scope of subpart.
109-50.401
Definitions.
109-50.402
Submission of proposals.
109-50.403
Need to establish DOE program benefit.

# Subpart 109-50.48—Exhibits
109-50.4800
Scope of subpart.
109-50.4801
Equipment Gift Agreement.

# Authority:
Sec. 644, Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 599 (42 U.S.C. 7254); sec. 31, Atomic Energy Act, as amended; Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 103 and 107; Title III, Department of Energy Organization Act; E.O. 12999; sec. 3710(i), Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 3710(i)); Pub. L. 101-510, Department of Energy Science Education Enhancement Act; Pub. L. 102-245, American Technologies Preeminence Act of 1991 (15 U.S.C. 3701); Office of Science Financial Assistance Program (10 CFR part 605).

# Source:
81 FR 63265, Sept. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 109-50.000
Scope of part.
This part provides guidance on the policies, practices, and procedures for the disposal of DOE property under special legislative authorities.
§ 109-50.001
Applicability.
The provisions of this part apply to direct DOE operations and to designated contractors only when specifically provided for in the appropriate subpart.

# Subpart 109-50.1—Laboratory Equipment Donation Program Grant Program
§ 109-50.100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart provides guidance on the granting of Laboratory Equipment Donation Program in the LEDP is limited to accredited, post graduate, degree granting institutions including universities, colleges, junior colleges, technical institutes, museums, or hospitals, located in the U.S. and interested in establishing or upgrading energy-oriented educational programs in
the life, physical, and environmental sciences and in engineering is eligible to apply. An energy-oriented program is defined as an academic research activity dealing primarily or entirely in energy-related topics.
§ 109-50.101
Applicability.
This subpart is applicable to DOE offices and designated contractors.
§ 109-50.102
General.
DOE, to encourage research and development in the field of energy, awards grants of excess Laboratory Equipment Donation Program to eligible institutions for use in energy-oriented educational programs. Under the Used Laboratory Equipment Donation Program (LEDP) Grant Program, grants of used energy-related equipment excess to the requirements of DOE offices and designated contractors may be made to eligible institutions prior to reporting the equipment to GSA for reutilization screening.
§ 109-50.103
Definitions.
As used in this subpart the following definitions apply:
Book value
means acquisition cost less depreciation.
DOE Financial Assistance Rules
(10 CFR part 600) means the DOE regulation which establishes a uniform administrative system for application, award, and administration of assistance awards, including grants and cooperative agreements.
Eligible institution
means any nonprofit educational institution of higher learning, such as universities, colleges, junior colleges, hospitals, and technical institutes or museums located in the United States and interested in establishing or upgrading energy-oriented education programs.
Energy-oriented education program
means one that deals partially or entirely in energy or energy-related topics.
§ 109-50.104
Equipment which may be granted.
Generally, equipment items classified in FSCG 66, Instruments and Laboratory Equipment, are eligible for granting under this program. Other selected items designated by the Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS) and approved by the OPMO, are made available under the program.
§ 109-50.105
Equipment which may not be granted.
Equipment which will not be granted include:
(a) Equipment intended by the DOE institution for use in contractual research projects.
(b) Furniture, such as desks, tables, chairs, typewriters, etc. (exception is such equipment that may be an essential component of and physically attached to an energy-related laboratory equipment system);
(c) General supplies.
§ 109-50.106
Procedure.
(a) After DOE utilization screening through EADS, items eligible for LEDP grants are extracted from the EADS system and Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS).
(b) Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS) to prospective grantees through an automated system.
(c) The following periods have been established during which time equipment will remain available to this program prior to reporting it to GSA for reutilization by other Federal agencies:
(1) Thirty days from the date DOE utilization screening is completed to permit suitable time for eligible institutions to review and earmark the desired equipment.
(2) An additional thirty days after the equipment is earmarked to permit the eligible institutions to prepare and submit an equipment proposal request and to provide time for field organizations to review and evaluate the proposal and take appropriate action.
(d) Upon approval of the proposal, a grant will be issued to the institution upon completion.
(e) A copy of the completed grant, shall be used to transfer title and drop accountability of the granted equipment from the financial records.
(f) The cost of care and handling of personal property incident to the grant
shall be charged to the receiving institution. Such costs may consist of packing, crating, shipping and insurance, and are limited to actual costs. In addition, where appropriate, the cost of any repair and/or modification to any equipment shall be borne by the recipient institution.
§ 109-50.107
Reporting.
(a) Gifts made under this program shall be included in the annual report of property transferred to non-Federal recipients, as required by 41 CFR 101-43.4701(c) and 109-43.4701(c).
(b) A copy of each equipment agreement shall be forwarded to the Director, Office of Laboratory Policy and Infrastructure Management.

# Subpart 109-50.2—Math and Science Equipment Gift Program
§ 109-50.200
Scope of subpart.
This subpart provides guidance on providing gifts of excess and/or surplus education related and Federal research equipment to elementary and secondary educational institutions or nonprofit organizations for the purpose of improving math and science curricula or conducting of technical and scientific education and research activities.
§ 109-50.201
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart are applicable to DOE offices and designated contractors.
§ 109-50.202
Definitions.
As used in this subpart the following definitions apply:
DOE Field Organizations
means the DOE Federal management activities, including Operations Offices, Field Offices, Area Offices, Site Offices, Energy Technology Centers, and Project Offices staffed by Federal employees.
Education-related and Federal research equipment
includes but is not limited to DOE-owned property in FSCG 34, 36, 41, 52, 60, 61, 66, 67, 70, and 74 (See 41 CFR 101-43.4801(d)), and other related equipment, which is deemed appropriate for use in improving math and science curricula or activities for elementary and secondary school education, or for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities.
Elementary and secondary schools
means individual public or private educational institutions encompassing kindergarten through twelfth grade, as well as public school districts.
Eligible recipient
means local elementary and secondary schools and nonprofit organizations.
Facilities under DOE Field Organization cognizance
means national laboratories, production plants, and project sites managed and operated by DOE contractors or subcontractors.
§ 109-50.203
Eligible equipment.
(a) Education-related and research equipment will include, but is not limited to the following FSCGs:

# FSCG and Description
34 Metalworking Machinery
36 Special Industry Machinery
41 Refrigeration, Air Conditioning and Air Circulating Equipment
52 Measuring Tools
60 Fiber Optics Materials, Components, Assemblies and Accessories
61 Electric Wire, and Power and Distribution Equipment
66 Instruments and Laboratory Equipment
67 Photographic Equipment
70 General Purpose Automatic Data Processing Equipment (Including Firmware), Software, Supplies and Support Equipment
74 Office Machines, Text Processing Systems and Visible Record Equipment
(b) Other related equipment may be provided if deemed appropriate and approved by the Director, Office of Laboratory Policy and Infrastructure Management.
§ 109-50.204
Limitations.
(a) Excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment at DOE Field Organizations and cognizant facilities is eligible for transfer as a gift under this program. However, safety, environmental, and health matters must be considered.
(b) Title to the equipment will transfer upon the recipient's written acknowledgement of receipt.
(c) The Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS) may authorize gifts of excess and/or surplus education-related and
Federal research equipment by signature on the appropriate gift instrument where the book value of an item of equipment exceeds $25,000 or the cumulative book value of the gifts under this program to any one institution exceeds $25,000. HCA or designee may authorize gifts of excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment of lesser individual and cumulative book value by signature on the appropriate gift instrument. Delegations by the HCA to authorize gifts of excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment shall be in writing to a specific individual, for a specified period of time, and for a specified (or unlimited) level of authority.
(d) Gifts shall be serviceable and in working order. Disposal Condition Codes 1 and 4, as defined in 41 CFR 101-43.4801(e), meet this criteria. Serviceability of equipment should be verified before the gift is made to the eligible recipient.
§ 109-50.205
Procedure.
(a) The DOE facility will set aside an appropriate amount of excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment for transfer under this program.
(b) A list of available education-related and Federal research equipment will be prepared and distributed to eligible recipients and the chief State School Board Officer.
(c) Precollege institutions with partnership arrangements with the DOE or its facilities (
e.g.,
an adopted school) may receive gifts of equipment in support of the partnership.
(d) Precollege institutions not in a partnership with DOE may receive equipment at the recommendation of the chief State School Board Officer. The Chief State School Board Officer will determine which schools within the state will receive which equipment. Consideration for placement of the equipment should be based on:
(1) The elementary or secondary schools determined to have the greatest need; or
(2) Recipients of federally funded math and science projects where the equipment would further enhance the progress of the project.
(e) Eligible recipients will have 30 days to select and freeze, on a first come, first serve basis, the items desired and submit a request for selected items stating:
(1) Why the gift is needed; and
(2) How the gift will be used to improve math and science curricula or in the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities.
(f) The cost of shipping should be minimal and not more than the actual equipment value.
(g) An Equipment Gift Agreement will be prepared and used to provide the gift to eligible recipients. The gift agreement will be in the format provided in section 109-50.4801 of this subchapter. The agreement shall be numbered for control purposes, and signed by the Office of Science's Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS) or the HCA or designee, as appropriate, and an appropriate official representing the eligible recipient.
§ 109-50.206
Reporting.
(a) Gifts made under this program shall be included in the annual report of property transferred to non-Federal recipients, as required by 41 CFR 101-43.4701(c) and § 109-43.4701(c) of this chapter.
(b) A copy of each equipment agreement shall be forwarded to the Office of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists (WDTS).
Subpart 109-50.3 [Reserved]

# Subpart 109-50.4—Programmatic Disposal to Contractors of DOE Property in a Mixed Facility
§ 109-50.400
Scope of subpart.
This subpart contains policy to be followed when it is proposed to sell or otherwise transfer DOE personal property located in a mixed facility to the contractor who is the operator of that facility.
§ 109-50.401
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply;
Contractor
means the operator of the mixed facility.
DOE property
means DOE-owned personal property located in a mixed facility.
Mixed facility
means a partly DOE-owned and partly contractor-owned facility. For purposes of this subpart, however, this definition does not apply to such a facility operated by an educational or other nonprofit institution under a basic research contract with DOE.
§ 109-50.402
Submission of proposals.
Proposals involving programmatic disposals of DOE personal property located in mixed facilities to contractors operating that facility shall be forwarded through the appropriate program organization to the Property Executive, for review and processing for approval. Each such request shall include all information necessary for a proper evaluation of the proposal. The proposal shall include, as a minimum:
(a) The purpose of the mixed facility;
(b) The description, condition, acquisition cost, and present use of the DOE personal property involved.
(c) The programmatic benefits which could accrue to DOE from the disposal to the contractor (including the considerations which become important if the disposal is not made);
(d) The appraised value of the DOE personal property (preferably by independent appraisers); and
(e) The proposed terms and conditions of disposal including:
(1) Price;
(2) Priority to be given work for DOE requiring the use of the transferred property, and including the basis for any proposed charge to DOE for amortizing the cost of plant and equipment items;
(3) Recapture of the property if DOE foresees a possible future urgent need; and
(4) Delivery of the property, whether “as is-where is,” etc.
§ 109-50.403
Need to establish DOE program benefit.
When approval for a proposed programmatic disposal of DOE personal property in a mixed facility is being sought, it must be established that the disposal will benefit a DOE program. For example, approval might be contingent on showing that:
(a) The entry of the contractor as a private concern into the energy program is important and significant from a programmatic standpoint; and
(b) The sale of property to the contractor will remove obstacles which otherwise discourage entry into the field.

# Subpart 109-50.48—Exhibits
§ 109-50.4800
Scope of subpart.
This subpart exhibits information referenced in the text of part 109-50 of this chapter that is not suitable for inclusion elsewhere in that part.
§ 109-50.4801
Equipment Gift Agreement.
(a) The following Equipment Gift Agreement format will be used to provide gifts of excess and/or surplus equipment to eligible recipients under the Math and Science Equipment Gift Program (see subpart 109-50.2 of this chapter).

# Equipment Gift Agreement
(Reference Number)

# Between The U.S. Department of Energy and
(Name of Eligible Recipient)

# I. Purpose
The Department of Energy shall provide as a gift, excess and/or surplus education-related and Federal research equipment to (Name of Eligible Recipient), hereafter referred to as the Recipient, for the purpose of improving the Recipient's math and science education curricula or for the Recipient's conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities.

# II. Authority
Federal agencies have been directed, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to give highest preference to elementary and secondary schools in the transfer or donation of education-related Federal equipment, at the lowest cost permitted by law. Furthermore, subsection 11(i) of the Stevenson Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, as amended (15 U.S.C. 3710 (i)), authorizes the Director of a laboratory, or the head of any Federal agency or department to give excess
research equipment to an educational institution or nonprofit organization for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities.

# III. Agreement
A. The Department of Energy agrees to provide the equipment identified in the attached equipment gift list, as a gift for the purpose of improving the Recipient's math and science curricula or for the Recipient's conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities.
B. Title to the education-related and Federal research equipment, provided as a gift under this agreement, shall vest with the Recipient upon the Recipient's written acknowledgement of receipt of the equipment. The acknowledgement shall be provided to (Name of the DOE signatory) at (address).
C. The Recipient will be responsible for any repair and modification costs to any equipment received under this gift.
D. The Recipient hereby releases and agrees to hold the Government, the Department of Energy, or any person acting on behalf of the Department of Energy harmless, to the extent allowable by State law, for any and all liability of every kind and nature whatsoever resulting from the receipt, shipping, installation, operation, handling, use, and maintenance of the education-related and Federal Research equipment provided as a gift under this agreement.
E. The Recipient agrees to use the gift provided herein for the primary purpose of improving the math and science curricula or for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities.
F. The Recipient agrees to provide for the return of the equipment if such equipment, while still usable, has not been placed in use for its intended purpose within one year after receipt from the Department of Energy.
(U.S. Department of Energy Office)
(Name and Address of Recipient)
(Signature of HCA or Designee)
(Signature of Official)
(Typed Name)
(Typed Name)
(Typed Title)
(Typed Title)
(Date)
(Date)
(b) The list of gifts that accompanies the Equipment Gift Agreement shall contain the Gift Agreement reference number, name of the eligible recipient, and the name of the DOE office. In addition, the following information shall be provided for each line item provided as a gift: DOE ID number, description (name, manufacturer, model number, serial number, etc.), FSC code, quantity, location, acquisition date, and acquisition cost.
41 CFR Ch. 114 (7-1-25 Edition)
Department of the Interior

# CHAPTER 114—DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
Part
Page
114-51
Government furnished quarters
697
Pt. 114-51

# PART 114-51—GOVERNMENT FURNISHED QUARTERS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Subpart 114-51.1—General
§ 114-51.100
Departmental Quarters Handbook.
The Office of Acquisition and Property Management (PAM) has prepared the Departmental Quarters Handbook (DQH), 400 DM, which provides detailed guidelines governing administration, management and rental rate establishment activities relating to Government furnished quarters (GFQ). Officials responsible for administration and management of quarters shall implement and comply with the provisions of the DQH, and shall ensure its availability for examination by all employees.
[60 FR 3555, Jan. 18, 1995]
41 CFR Ch. 115 (7-1-25 Edition)
Environmental Protection Agency

# CHAPTER 115—ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
Part
Page
115-1
Introduction
701
Pt. 115-1

# PART 115-1—INTRODUCTION

# Subpart 115-1.1—Regulation System
Sec.
115-1.100
Scope of subpart.
115-1.103
Temporary-type FPMR.
115-1.103-50
Temporary-type changes to EPPMR.
115-1.104
Publication of FPMR.
115-1.104-50
Publication of EPPMR.
115-1.106
Applicability of FPMR.
115-1.108
Agency implementation and supplementation of FPMR.
115-1.109
Numbering in FPMR system.
115-1.110
Deviations.

# Authority:
Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 377, as amended; 40 U.S.C. 486(c).

# Source:
36 FR 8568, May 8, 1971, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 115-1.1—Regulation System
§ 115-1.100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart establishes the Environmental Protection Agency Property Management Regulations (EPPMR), chapter 115 of the Federal Property Management Regulations System (FPMR) (41 CFR chapter 101); states its relationship to the FPMR, and provides instructions governing the property management policies and procedures of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
§ 115-1.103
Temporary-type FPMR.
§ 115-1.103-50
Temporary-type changes to EPPMR.
Where required, temporary changes will be published as EPPMR-Temporary Regulations. Temporary Regulations will be cross-referenced to related EPPMR subparts and will indicate dates for compliance with, and cancellation of each issuance.
§ 115-1.104
Publication of FPMR.
§ 115-1.104-50
Publication of EPPMR.
(a) Material published in the EPPMR will generally not be of interest to nor directly affect the public. Therefore, most EPPMR material will not be published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Arrows printed in the margin of a page indicate material changed, deleted, or added by the EPPMR Transmittal Notice cited at the bottom of that page. (See GSA, FPMR Amendment Transmittal pages for illustrations.)
§ 115-1.106
Applicability of FPMR.
The FPMR apply to all EPA activities unless otherwise specified, or unless a deviation is approved.
§ 115-1.108
Agency implementation and supplementation of FPMR.
(a) EPPMR implements and supplements the FPMR and follows the FPMR in style, arrangement and numbering sequence. Except to assure continuity and understanding FPMR material will not be repeated or paraphrased in the EPPMR.
(b) Implementing material expands upon related material in the FPMR. Supplementing material deals with subject material not covered in the FPMR.
§ 115-1.109
Numbering in FPMR system.
(a) The numbering system used in EPPMR conforms to that of the FPMR except for the chapter number. The first three digits represent the Chapter number assigned to this Agency in title 41, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). In FPMR the chapter number is 101 and in EPPMR the Chapter number is 115.
(b) Where EPA Chapter 115 implements Chapter 101 the material will be numbered and captioned to correspond to the FPMR part, subpart, section or subsection, e.g., 115-1.106 “Applicability of FPMR” implements 101-1.106 of FPMR.
(c) Where Chapter 115 supplements the FPMR and deals with subject matter not contained in the FPMR, the EPPMR material is numbered to follow that which is most closely related to similar material in the FPMR, Supplementing material is numbered “50” or higher.
§ 115-1.110
Deviations.
Where deemed necessary that regulations set forth in the FPMR or EPPMR be changed in the interest of program effectiveness, a proposed revision will be submitted in accordance with FPR § 1-1.009, to the Division of Data and
Support Systems (DSSD) for review and consideration.
41 CFR Ch. 128 (7-1-25 Edition)
Department of Justice

# CHAPTER 128—DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Part
Page
128-1
Introduction
705
128-18
Acquisition of real property
714
128-48
Utilization, donation, or disposal of abandoned and forfeited personal property
714
128-50
Seized personal property
716
Pt. 128-1

# PART 128-1—INTRODUCTION

# Subpart 128-1.1—Regulation System
Sec.
128-1.100
Scope of subpart.
128-1.101
Justice Property Management Regulations.
128-1.105
Authority for JPMR.
128-1.152
Citation.

# Subpart 128-1.50—Authorities and Responsibilities for Personal Property Management
128-1.5001
Scope of subpart.
128-1.5002
Definitions.
128-1.5002-1
Acquire.
128-1.5002-2
Department.
128-1.5002-3
Head of the Agency/Department.
128-1.5002-4
Bureau.
128-1.5002-5
Personal property.
128-1.5002-6
Personal property management.
128-1.5002-7
Property management officer (PMO).
128-1.5002-8
Property custodian (PC).
128-1.5002-9
Supply support system.
128-1.5003
Primary authority and responsibility.
128-1.5004
Basis for delegations of authority and assignment of responsibilities.
128-1.5005
Delegations of authority.
128-1.5005-1
Primary delegations.
128-1.5005-2
Redelegations of authority.
128-1.5006
General responsibilities.
128-1.5006-1
Head of bureau.
128-1.5006-2
Property management officer (PMO).
128-1.5006-3
Department employees.
128-1.5007
Reproduction of departmental and bureau seals.
128-1.5009
Authorization for use of the Federal Bureau of Investigation anti-piracy warning seal.

# Subpart 128-1.80—Seismic Safety Program
128-1.8000
Scope.
128-1.8001
Background.
128-1.8002
Definitions of terms.
128-1.8003
Objective.
128-1.8004
Seismic Safety Coordinators.
128-1.8005
Seismic safety standards.
128-1.8006
Seismic Safety Program requirements.
128-1.8007
Reporting.
128-1.8008
Exemptions.
128-1.8009
Review of Seismic Safety Program.
128-1.8010
Judicial review.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 40 U.S.C. 121(c), 41 CFR 101-1.108, and 28 CFR 0.75(j), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
41 FR 45987, Oct. 19, 1976, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart 128-1.1—Regulation System
§ 128-1.100
Scope of subpart.
This subpart introduces the Department of Justice Property Management Regulations (JPMR) as part of the Federal Property Management Regulations System (FPMR) (41 CFR part 101); states its relationship to the FPMR; and provides instructions for the issuance and use of these property management policies and procedures of the Department of Justice.
§ 128-1.101
Justice Property Management Regulations.
The JPMR, established in this subpart, implement and supplement, as necessary, the FPMR provisions governing the acquisition, utilization, management, and disposal of real and personal property. The JPMR are issued to establish uniform property management policies, regulations, and, as necessary, procedures in the Department of Justice.
§ 128-1.105
Authority for JPMR.
The Department of Justice Property Management Regulations are prescribed by the Assistant Attorney General for Administration under authority of 5 U.S.C. 301, 40 U.S.C. 486(c), 41 CFR 101-1.108, and 28 CFR 0.75(j).
§ 128-1.152
Citation.
The JPMR will be cited in accordance with the
Federal Register
standards applicable to the FPMR. Accordingly, when this section is referred to formally in official documents, it should be cited as “41 CFR 128-1.152.” When a section of the JPMR is referred to informally, however, it may be identified simply by “JPMR” followed by the complete paragraph reference number, e.g., “JPMR 128-1.152.”

# Subpart 128-1.50—Authorities and Responsibilities for Personal Property Management
§ 128-1.5001
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth general definitions of terms used throughout the JPMR and states responsibilities and authorities within the Department of
Justice as they pertain to personal property management functions.
§ 128-1.5002
Definitions.
§ 128-1.5002-1
Acquire.
To procure, purchase, or obtain in any manner, except by lease, including transfer, donation or forfeiture, manufacture, or production at Government-owned plants or facilities.
§ 128-1.5002-2
Department.
The Department of Justice, including all its Bureaus and their respective field operations in all locations.
§ 128-1.5002-3
Head of the Agency/Department.
The Attorney General of the United States.
§ 128-1.5002-4
Bureau.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation; the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration; the Immigration and Naturalization Service; the Drug Enforcement Administration; the Bureau of Prisons; the Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated; and the Operations Support Staff (OSS) of the Office of Management and Finance. The OSS has authority and is responsible for all personal property management functions for the Offices, Boards, and Divisions of the Department, the United States Marshals Service, and the United States Parole Commission.
§ 128-1.5002-5
Personal property.
Property of any kind or interest therein, except real and related property (as defined in FPMR 41 CFR 101-43.104-15), records of the Federal Government, and naval vessels, cruisers, aircraft-carriers, destroyers, and submarines (FPMR 41 CFR 101-43.104-13). For management and accounting control, personal property is categorized as follows:
(a) “Expendable personal property” is that which, by its nature or function, is consumed in use; is used as repair parts or components of an end product considered nonexpendable; or has an expected service life of less than one year.
(b) “Non-expendable personal property” is that which is complete within itself, does not lose its identity or become a component part of another article when put into use, and is of a durable nature with an expected service life one or more years.
(c) “Controlled personal property” is that personal property for which good management practice dictates that it would be in the interest of the Government to assign and record accountability to assure the proper use, maintenance, protection and disposal of property for which the Government is responsible. Includes, but is not restricted to property which:
(1) Is leased by, in the custody of, or is loaned to or from the Department.
(2) Due to inherent attractiveness and/or portability is subject to a high probability of theft or misuse.
(3) Is warranted, requires knowledge of age and/or previous repair data when determining whether repair or replacement is appropriate.
§ 128-1.5002-6
Personal property management.
A system for controlling the acquisition, receipt, storage issue, utilization, maintenance, protection, accountability, and disposal of personal property to best satisfy the program needs of the Department.
§ 128-1.5002-7
Property management officer (PMO).
An individual responsible for the overall administration, coordination, and control of the personal property management program of a bureau. The designation as PMO may or may not correspond to the individual's official job title.
§ 128-1.5002-8
Property custodian (PC).
An individual responsible for the immediate physical custody of all personal property under his control and for providing documentation as required on all actions affecting the personal property within his jurisdiction. The designation as PC may or may not correspond to the individual's official job title.
§ 128-1.5002-9
Supply support system.
The sum of all actions taken in providing buildings, equipment, supplies, and services to support program areas.
§ 128-1.5003
Primary authority and responsibility.
(a) The Attorney General of the United States has the primary authority and responsibility for providing direction, leadership, and general supervision in the development and administration of an effective and efficient supply support system for the Department, to include:
(1) The establishment of Department-wide policies, directions, regulations, and procedures satisfying the requirements of law, regulations, and sound management practice; and
(2) The review, evaluation, and improvement of personal property management programs, functions, operations, and procedures throughout the Department.
(b) Pursuant to 28 CFR 0.75 and subject to the general supervision of the Attorney General and the direction of the Deputy Attorney General, the functions described above are assigned to the Assistant Attorney General for Administration as delegations of authority.
§ 128-1.5004
Basis for delegations of authority and assignment of responsibilities.
Certain personal property management functions can be performed by an individual only under a specific grant of authority to that individual. Other functions may be performed simply on the basis of general instructions or directions or by virtue of an individual occupying the position to which the responsibility for the function is assigned. In either situation, to eliminate excessive delay and to reduce unnecessary involvement of multiple management levels, it is considered generally desirable to place authority and responsibility for and to exercise property management actions at the lowest organizational unit practical. Accordingly, specific redelegations of the authority vested in the Assistant Attorney General for Administration are made to the heads of bureaus for the personal property management functions listed in § 128-1.5005 below. The authority to prescribe and issue Department-wide policies, regulations, and procedures for personal property management is not redelegated and remains solely within the jurisdiction of the Assistant Attorney General for Administration.
§ 128-1.5005
Delegations of authority.
§ 128-1.5005-1
Primary delegations.
The following authorities are redelegated to the heads of bureaus for use within their respective jurisdictions and shall be exercised in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Assistant Attorney General for Administration.
(a) Designating the PMO, for the bureau, within the following limitations:
(1) Only one PMO is to be designated for the bureau, at the bureau level. Neither the title designation nor the responsibilities of the PMO are to be delegated below that level.
(2) One or more PC's also may be designated for the bureau, depending upon the size and complexity of the organizational structure. Each PC is responsible solely for that property within his respective jurisdiction. The number and distribution of PC's designated is entirely at the option of the head of the bureau.
(3) There is no restriction on designating a single individual as PMO and PC providing that the functions and responsibilities are compatible and are within the capabilities of a single person.
(b) Authorizing exceptions to the FPMR use and replacement standards for office machines, furniture, furnishings and typewriters specified in §§ 101-25.3 and 101-25.4.
(c) Authorizing exceptions to FPMR replacement standards for materials handling equipment specified in § 101-25.304.
(d) Authorizing the procurement of passenger motor vehicles with additional systems or equipment or the procurement of additional systems or equipment for passenger motor vehicles already owned or operated by the Government, in conformance with Federal Standards No. 122 and § 101-25.304.
(e) Authorizing the retention for official use by the bureau of abandoned or other unclaimed personal property and of personal property which is voluntarily abandoned or forfeited other than by court decree.
(f) Determining when personal property becomes excess and reporting the excess property to the General Services Administration (GSA).
(g) Assigning or transferring excess personal property within the bureau to other bureaus of the Department, other Federal agencies, the Legislative Branch to the Judicial Branch, to wholly-owned or mixed-ownership Government corporations, to cost-reimbursable type contractors, or to authorized grantees.
(h) Transferring property forfeited to the Government to other authorized recipients or requesting judicial transfer of such property from others to the bureau.
(i) Determining fair market value of abandoned and other unclaimed property retained for official use by the bureau, for deposit to a special fund for reimbursement of owners.
(j) Approving claims and reimbursing, less direct costs, former owners of abandoned or other unclaimed personal property which has been sold or retained for official use.
(k) Recommending non-Federal grantee excess property screeners to GSA as required in FPMR 101-43.320(h).
(l) When authorized by statutory authority, vesting title to Government-furnished personal property in contractors or grantees.
(m) Acquiring excess personal property from other bureaus and from other Federal agencies.
§ 128-1.5005-2
Redelegations of authority.
(a) The authorities delegated by the Assistant Attorney General for Administration to heads of bureaus may, in turn, be redelegated as necessary to enable personal property management functions to be performed at the organizational level best equipped to handle such functions, unless otherwise prohibited by this regulation.
(b) Such redelegations can be made without the specific approval of the Assistant Attorney General for Administration to deputies, principal administrative officers, heads of field offices and installations and their respective deputies. Such redelegations shall not conflict with the duties or responsibilities assigned to the PMO, or PC under the JPMR.
(c) Existing delegations of authority by the Assistant Attorney General for Administration in matters of personal property management which are not covered in this section shall continue in effect until modified or revoked.
(d) Redelegations of authorities made in accordance with this section shall be in writing and shall be made available for audits, surveys, or as otherwise appropriate.
§ 128-1.5006
General responsibilities.
§ 128-1.5006-1
Head of bureau.
The head of a bureau is responsible for establishing and administering a property management program within his respective operation which will provide for:
(a) The planning and scheduling of property requirements to assure that supplies, equipment, and space are readily available to satisfy program needs while minimizing operating costs and inventory levels.
(b) The creation and maintenance of complete, accurate inventory control and accountability record systems.
(c) The maximum utilization of available property for official purposes.
(d) The proper care and securing of property, to include storage, handling, preservation, and preventative maintenance.
(e) The identification of property excess to the needs of the bureau which must be made available to other Departmental activities and reported to GSA for transfer, donation, or disposal, as appropriate, under the provisions of the FPMR and JPMR.
(f) The submission of required property management reports.
(g) The conducting of periodic management reviews within the activity to assure compliance with prescribed policies, regulations, and procedures and to determine additional guidance or training needs.
(h) Advising all bureau employees of their responsibilities for Government property.
(i) Supporting general ledger control accounts for personal property by establishing subsidiary accounts and records as prescribed by the bureau in accordance with the provisions of DOJ Order 2110.1, Paragraph 4(b)(c).
§ 128-1.5006-2
Property management officer (PMO).
The property management officer of a bureau is responsible for coordinating and conducting the activities of the personal property management program and for performing the following functions:
(a) Providing the required leadership, guidance, and operating procedures for personal property management functions.
(b) Ensuring general ledger control accounts for personal property are supported by property records in accordance with DOJ Order 2110.1, Paragraph 6.103b(4).
(c) Ensuring bureau compliance with the personal property management requirements of the FPMR and JPMR.
(d) Designating items of controlled personal property within the bureau.
(e) Ensuring records of controlled personal property are created and maintained by personnel other than property custodians.
§ 128-1.5006-3
Department employees.
Each employee of the Department who has use of, supervises the use of, or has control over Government property is responsible for that property. This responsibility may take either or both of the following forms:
(a) Supervisory responsibility, in which an officer-in-charge, and administrative officer, or a supervisor is obligated to establish and enforce necessary administrative and security measures to ensure proper preservation and use of all Government property under his jurisdiction.
(b) Personal responsibility, in which each employee of the Department is obligated to properly care for, handle, use, and protect Government property issued to or assigned for the employee's use at or away from the office or station.
§ 128-1.5007
Reproduction of departmental and bureau seals.
(a) Requests for permission to reproduce the Departmental seal for commercial, educational, ornamental or other purposes by other government agencies or private entities shall be referred to the Assistant Attorney General for Administration for decision.
(b) Requests for permission to reproduce the seals of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Prisons, the Federal Prison Industries, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Board of Parole, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the United States Marshals Service for such purposes by other government agencies or private entities shall be referred to the head of the respective Departmental organization for decision.
(c) The decision whether to grant such a request shall be made on a case-by-case basis, with consideration of any relevant factors, which may include the benefit or cost to the government of granting the request; the unintended appearance of endorsement or authentication by the Department; the potential for misuse; the effect upon Departmental security; the reputability of the use; the extent of control by the Department over the ultimate use; and the extent of control by the Department over distribution of any products or publications bearing a Departmental seal.
[45 FR 55727, Aug. 21, 1980]
§ 128-1.5009
Authorization for use of the Federal Bureau of Investigation anti-piracy warning seal.
(a)
Purpose.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Anti-Piracy Warning Seal (“APW Seal”) is an official insignia of the FBI and the United States Department of Justice. The purpose of the APW Seal is to help detect and deter criminal violations of United States intellectual property laws by educating the public about the existence of these laws and the authority of the FBI to enforce them.
(b) The APW Seal is a modified image of the Official FBI Seal with the words “FBI ANTI-PIRACY WARNING” displayed horizontally across its center in an enclosed border, whether rendered
in color, black and white, outline, or otherwise.
(c) The APW Seal has been approved by the Attorney General as an official insignia of the FBI within the meaning of Title 18, United States Code, Section 701, which provides criminal sanctions for unauthorized uses of such insignia.
(d)(1) The regulations in this section authorize use of the APW Seal by copyright holders on copyrighted works including, but not limited to films, audio recordings, electronic media, software, books, photographs, etc., subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this section.
(2) Use of the APW Seal or of the authorized warning language in a manner not authorized under this section may be punishable under Title 18, United States Code, Sections 701, 709, or other applicable law.
(e)
Conditions regarding use of the APW Seal.
(1) The APW Seal shall only be used on copyrighted works subject to protection under United States Criminal Code provisions such as those in Title 18, United States Code, Sections 2319, 2319A, and 2319B.
(2) The APW Seal shall only be used immediately adjacent to the authorized warning language. “Authorized warning language” refers to the language set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, or alternative language specifically authorized in writing for this purpose by the Director of the FBI or his or her designee and posted on the FBI's official public Internet Web site (
http://www.fbi.gov
). Except as authorized pursuant to paragraph (f)(1), the APW Seal and authorized warning language shall be enclosed by a plain box border at all times that other text or images appear on the same screen or page.
(i) “The unauthorized reproduction or distribution of a copyrighted work is illegal. Criminal copyright infringement, including infringement without monetary gain, is investigated by the FBI and is punishable by fines and federal imprisonment.”
(ii) [Reserved]
(3) The APW Seal image must be obtained from the FBI's official public Internet Web site (
http://www.fbi.gov
). The APW Seal image shall not be animated or altered except that it may be rendered in outline, black and white, or grayscale.
(4) In programming or reproducing the APW Seal in or on a work, users are encouraged to employ industry-recognized copyright anti-circumvention or copy protection techniques to discourage copying of the FBI APW Seal, except that such techniques need not be used if no other content or advertising programmed into the same work on the same media utilizes such copyright anti-circumvention or copy protection techniques.
(f)
Prohibitions regarding use of the APW Seal.
(1) The APW Seal shall not be used in a manner indicating FBI approval, authorization, or endorsement of any communication other than the authorized warning language. No other text or image that appears on the same screen, page, package, etc., as the APW Seal or authorized warning language shall reference, contradict, or be displayed in a manner that appears to be associated with, the APW Seal or authorized warning language, except as authorized in writing by the Director of the FBI or his or her designee and posted on the FBI's official public Internet Web site (
http://www.fbi.gov
).
(2) The APW Seal shall not be used on any work whose production, sale, public presentation, or distribution by mail or in or affecting interstate commerce would violate the laws of the United States including, but not limited to, those protecting intellectual property and those prohibiting child pornography and obscenity.
(3) The APW Seal shall not be forwarded or copied except as necessary to display it on an eligible work.
(4) The APW Seal shall not be used in any manner:
(i) Indicating that the FBI has approved, authorized, or endorsed any work, product, production, or private entity, including the work on which it appears;
(ii) Indicating that the FBI has determined that a particular work or portion thereof is entitled to protection of the law; or,
(iii) Indicating that any item or communication, except as provided herein, originated from, on behalf of, or in coordination with the FBI, whether for
enforcement purposes, education, or otherwise.
[77 FR 41320, July 13, 2012]

# Subpart 128-1.80—Seismic Safety Program

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.,
E.O. 12699 (3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 269).

# Source:
58 FR 42876, Aug. 12, 1993; 59 FR 33439, June 29, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 128-1.8000
Scope.
This subpart establishes a Seismic Safety Program for the Department of Justice and sets forth the policies and procedures for obtaining compliance with Executive Order 12699 (Executive Order), “Seismic Safety of Federal and Federally Assisted or Regulated New Building Construction.”
§ 128-1.8001
Background.
The Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (Act), 42 U.S.C. 7701,
et seq.,
as amended, directs the Federal government to establish and maintain an effective earthquake hazards reduction program to reduce the risks to life and property from future earthquakes. Executive Order 12699 implements certain provisions of the Act by requiring Federal agencies responsible for the design and construction of new buildings to develop and implement a seismic safety program. The regulations in this subpart implement the Executive Order, and apply to buildings designed and constructed under the responsibility of the Department of Justice. These regulations do not apply to buildings used by the Department and obtained, through purchase or lease, by the General Services Administration or other Federal agencies.
§ 128-1.8002
Definitions of terms.
(a)
Construction documents
—Detailed plans and specifications for the construction of a building.
(b)
Building
—Any structure, fully or partially enclosed, used or intended for sheltering persons or property.
(c)
New building
—A building, or an addition to an existing building, for which development of construction documents was initiated after January 5, 1990.
(d)
Leased building
—A new building constructed expressly for lease by the Department of Justice, and for which the Department contracted with the lessor or owner to develop construction documents to meet the specifications of the Department.
(e)
Purchased building
—A new building constructed expressly for purchase by the Department, and for which the Department contracted with the owner/developer to develop construction documents meeting the specifications of the Department.
(f)
Assisted or regulated building
—A new building designed and constructed with funding assistance from the Department through Federal grants or loans, or guarantees of financing, through loan or mortgage insurance programs.
(g)
Covered building
—a new building owned, leased, purchased, or assisted or regulated by the Department of Justice.
§ 128-1.8003
Objective.
The Department shall comply with Executive Order 12699 for the purpose of reducing the risks to lives of occupants of new buildings owned by the Department, leased for Department uses, or purchased and constructed with assistance from the Department, and to other persons who would be affected by the failure of such buildings in earthquakes; improving the capability of essential new Department buildings to function during or after an earthquake; and protecting public investments in all covered buildings; all in a cost-effective manner.
§ 128-1.8004
Seismic Safety Coordinators.
(a) The Justice Management Division shall designate an individual with technical training, engineering experience and a seismic background as the Department of Justice Seismic Safety Coordinator who shall provide overall guidance for the implementation of the Seismic Safety Program for the Department. The Department Seismic Safety Coordinator shall, at a minimum:
(1) Monitor the execution and results of the efforts of the Department to upgrade the seismic safety of the Department's new construction activities;
(2) Implement seismic safety program changes, as required;
(3) Act as a point-of-contact for the Department in maintaining necessary records, and consolidate data pertaining to the seismic safety activities in the Department;
(4) Monitor and record the cost, construction and other consequences attributable to compliance with the Executive Order;
(5) Notify each Component Seismic Coordinator about what information he must maintain under the Seismic Safety Program and what reports he must prepare;
(6) Prepare and forward for submission all reports, as required by law and regulation;
(7) Manage the Seismic Safety Program for all components of the Department, with the exception of the components listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The Component Head for the Bureau of Prisons, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the United States Marshals Service, shall designate a Component Seismic Safety Coordinator for his/her respective component. Each of these Component Seismic Safety Coordinators shall manage and implement the seismic safety policies and activities within the component. The Component Seismic Safety Coordinators shall, at a minimum:
(1) Provide guidance to component employees who undertake building activity;
(2) Maintain and provide data about the Seismic Safety Program, as requested by the Department Seismic Safety Coordinator;
(3) Monitor and record the cost, construction and other consequences attributable to compliance with the Executive Order; and
(4) Submit an annual Seismic Safety Program status report as directed by the Department Seismic Safety Coordinator.
§ 128-1.8005
Seismic safety standards.
(a) To meet the building and construction requirements of this subpart, the Department, except as noted, adopts as its seismic safety standards the seismic safety levels set forth in the model building codes that the Interagency Committee on Seismic Safety in Construction (ICSSC) recognizes and recommends as appropriate for implementing the Executive Order. The ICSSC, as of the date of this rule, recognizes and recommends:
(1) The 1991 International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) Uniform Building Code (UBC);
(2) The 1992 Supplement to the Building Officials and Code Administrators International (BOCA) National Building Code (NBC); and
(3) The 1992 Amendments to the Southern Building Code Congress (SBCC) Standard Building Code (SBC).
(b) The seismic design and construction of a covered building shall conform to the model code applicable in the locality where the building is constructed, unless:
(1) The building code for the locality provides a higher level of seismic safety than provided by the appropriate model code, in which case the local code shall be utilized as the standard; or
(2) The locality does not have seismic safety building requirements, in which case the ICSSC model building code appropriate for that geographic area shall be utilized as the standard.
§ 128-1.8006
Seismic Safety Program requirements.
The Department Seismic Safety Coordinator and each Component Seismic Safety Coordinator shall ensure that an individual familiar with seismic design provisions of the Seismic Safety Standards (appropriate standards), or a professional, licensed engineer shall conduct the reviews required under this section, as appropriate.
(a)
New building projects.
Construction documents initiated after August 12, 1993, and which apply to new construction projects, shall comply with the appropriate standards and shall be reviewed for compliance. Once the reviewer determines that the documents comply, the reviewer shall affix his/her
signature and seal (if a licensed engineer) to the approved documents and provide a statement certifying compliance with the appropriate standards.
(b)
Existing building projects.
For new buildings with construction documents that were initiated prior to August 12, 1993, the documents shall be reviewed to determine whether they comply with the appropriate standards. If the reviewer determines that the documents comply with the standard, the reviewer shall affix his/her signature and seal (if a licensed engineer) to the approved documents and provide a statement certifying compliance with the appropriate standards. If the reviewer determines that seismic deficiencies exist, the appropriate Component Head shall ensure completion of one of the following:
(1) For a new building project for which a contract for construction has not been awarded, the construction documents shall be revised to incorporate the appropriate standards. The revised construction documents shall then be reviewed for compliance. Once the reviewer determines that the documents comply with the standard, the reviewer shall affix his/her signature and seal (if a licensed engineer) to the approved documents and provide a statement certifying compliance with the Department standards.
(2) For a new building under construction, or for which construction has been completed, a corrective action plan shall be devised to bring the building into compliance with the appropriate standards. The plan shall then be reviewed for compliance. Once the reviewer determines that the plan complies with the standard, the reviewer shall affix his/her signature and seal (if a licensed engineer) to the approved documents and provide a statement certifying compliance with the Department standards. The Component Head shall ensure implementation of the approved plan.
(3) For an addition to an existing building, the review shall account for, in addition to the requirements provided in paragraphs (b) (1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate, any effect the addition will have on the seismic resistance of the existing portion of the structure. If the reviewer determines that the addition will decrease the level of seismic resistance of the existing building, the appropriate Component Head shall develop a plan of corrective action to restore the seismic integrity of the existing structure. Once the plan of corrective action has been accomplished, the reviewer shall verify that the current level of seismic resistance of the existing building at least equals the seismic resistance level of the building before the addition.
(c) The Department Seismic Safety Coordinator and each Component Seismic Safety Coordinator shall ensure that statements verifying compliance made under this subpart have been completed and retained by the appropriate contracting officer when the Department contracted for design or design review services, or by an individual designated by the Component Head where the Department has not contracted for either design or design review.
§ 128-1.8007
Reporting.
The Department shall file reports on the execution of the Executive Order as required under the Order, and as required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
§ 128-1.8008
Exemptions.
The Executive Order exempts from the regulations in this subpart only those categories of buildings exempted by the “National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for New Buildings.” The Department Seismic Safety Coordinator shall maintain the latest version of this document.
§ 128-1.8009
Review of Seismic Safety Program.
The Department shall review and, as necessary, revise the Seismic Safety Program once every three years from August 12, 1993.
§ 128-1.8010
Judicial review.
Nothing in this subpart is intended to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the Department
of Justice, its Seismic Safety Coordinators, its officers, or any employee of the Department.
Pt. 128-18

# PART 128-18—ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY

# Subpart 128-18.50—Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition for Federal and Federally Assisted Programs

# Authority:
Sec. 213, Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894 (42 U.S.C. 4601) as amended by the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987, Title IV of Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 246-256 (42 U.S.C. 4601 note).
§ 128-18.5001-1
Uniform relocation assistance and real property acquisition.
Regulations and procedures for complying with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646, 84 Stat. 1894, 42 U.S.C. 4601), as amended by the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 (Title IV of Pub. L. 100-17, 101 Stat. 246-255, 42 U.S.C. 4601 note) are set forth in 49 CFR part 25.
[52 FR 48025, Dec. 17, 1987]
Pt. 128-48

# PART 128-48—UTILIZATION, DONATION, OR DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED AND FORFEITED PERSONAL PROPERTY
Sec.
128-48.001
Definitions.
128-48.001-5
Forfeited property.
128-48.001-50
Administrative or summary process.

# Subpart 128-48.1—Utilization of Abandoned and Forfeited Personal Property
128-48.102-1
Vesting of title in the United States.
128-48.102-4
Proceeds.
128-48.150
Determination of type of property.

# Subpart 128-48.3—Disposal of Abandoned and Forfeited Personal Property
128-48.305-1
Abandoned or other unclaimed property.

# Subpart 128-48.50—Proper Claims for Abandoned or Other Unclaimed Personal Property
128-48.500
Scope of subpart.
128-48.501
Definitions.
128-48.501-1
Determining official.
128-48.501-2
Claimant.
128-48.501-3
Owner.
128-48.501-4
Person.
128-48.502
Procedures relating to claims.
128-48.503
General procedures.

# Authority:
41 CFR 128-1.105.

# Source:
43 FR 3279, Jan. 24, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 128-48.001
Definitions.
§ 128-48.001-5
Forfeited property.
Personal property acquired by a bureau, either by administrative process or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to any law of the United States.
§ 128-48.001-50
Administrative or summary process.
Forfeiture is achieved by direction of the seizing bureau in lieu of the courts. The phrase shall be interpreted to mean by administrative process.

# Subpart 128-48.1—Utilization of Abandoned and Forfeited Personal Property
§ 128-48.102-1
Vesting of title in the United States.
(a) Abandoned or other unclaimed property, subject to the provisions of section 203(m) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 484(m)), shall remain in the custody of and be the responsibility of the bureau finding such property.
(b) If the owner of such property is known, the owner shall be notified within 20 days of finding such property by certified mail at the owner's address of record that the property may be claimed by the owner or his designee and that if the property is not claimed within 30 days from the date the letter
of notification is postmarked, the title of the property will vest in the United States.
(c) If the owner of such property is not known and the estimated value of the property exceeds $100, the bureau shall post notice within 20 days of finding such property, which contains the following information:
(1) A description of the property including model or serial numbers, if known.
(2) A statement of the location where the property was found and the office that has custody of it.
(3) A statement that any person desiring to claim the property must file with the bureau within 30 days from the date of first publication a claim for said property.
(4) A complete mailing address is to be provided as a point of contact within the bureau for any person to obtain additional information concerning the property or the procedures involved in filing a claim.
Notice must be published once a week for at least three successive weeks. Sound judgment and discretion must be used in selecting the publication medium. Advertisements should be placed in a publication of general circulation within the judicial district where the property was found.
(d) Property, as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, shall be held for a period of 30 days from the date of the first publication of notice. Upon the expiration of this 30-day period, title to such property vests in the United States, except that title reverts to the owner where a proper claim is filed within three years from the date of vesting of title in the United States, but if the property has been in official use, transferred for official use, or sold at the time the proper claim is approved, title shall not revert back to the former owner. The former owner shall instead obtain reimbursement in accordance with 41 CFR 101-48.102-4 or 101-48.305-1.
(e) If the owner of such property is unknown and the estimated value of the property is $100 or less, no notice is required, and the property shall be held for a period of 30 days from the date of finding the property. Upon expiration of this 30-day period, title to such property vests in the United States.
§ 128-48.102-4
Proceeds.
(a) Records of abandoned or other unclaimed property will be maintained in such a manner as to permit identification of the property with the original owner, if known, when such property is put into official use or transferred for official use by the finding bureau. Records will be maintained until the three-year period for filing claims has elapsed to enable the bureau to determine the amount of reimbursement due to a former owner who has filed a proper claim for abandoned or other unclaimed property.
(b) Reimbursement for official use by the finding bureau or transfer for official use of abandoned or other unclaimed property that has been placed in a special fund by the bureau for more than three years shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts, or in such other bureau accounts as provided by law.
§ 128-48.150
Determination of type of property.
If a bureau is unable to determine whether the personal property in its custody is abandoned or voluntarily abandoned, the bureau shall contact the regional office of the General Services Administration for the region in which the property is located for such a determination.

# Subpart 128-48.3—Disposal of Abandoned and Forfeited Personal Property
§ 128-48.305-1
Abandoned or other unclaimed property.
Proceeds from the sale of abandoned or other unclaimed property that have been placed in a special fund by a bureau for more than three years shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts, or in such other bureau accounts as provided by law.

# Subpart 128-48.50—Proper Claims for Abandoned or Other Unclaimed Personal Property
§ 128-48.500
Scope of subpart.
This subpart sets forth the policies in regard to proper claims for abandoned or other unclaimed property.
§ 128-48.501
Definitions.
§ 128-48.501-1
Determining official.
The official who has the authority to grant or deny the claim for the abandoned or other unclaimed property.
§ 128-48.501-2
Claimant.
The person who submitted the claim for the abandoned or other unclaimed property.
§ 128-48.501-3
Owner.
The person who has primary and direct title to property (see 28 CFR 9.2(e)).
§ 128-48.501-4
Person.
An individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, or other entity capable of owning property (see 28 CFR 9.2(f)).
§ 128-48.502
Procedures relating to claims.
(a) Upon receipt of a claim, an investigation shall be conducted to determine the merits of the claim, and the investigation's report shall be submitted to the determining official.
(b) The determining official shall be designated by the head of a bureau.
(c) Upon receipt of a claim and the report thereon by the determining official, he shall make a ruling based upon the claim and the investigation's report.
(d) Notice of the granting or denial of a claim for abandoned or other unclaimed property shall be mailed to the claimant or his attorney. If the claim is granted, the conditions of relief and the procedures to be followed to obtain the relief shall be set forth. If the claim is denied, the claimant shall be advised of the reason for such denial.
(e) A request for reconsideration of the claim may be submitted within 10 days from the date of the letter denying the claim. Such request shall be addressed to the head of the bureau and shall be based on evidence recently developed or not previously considered.
§ 128-48.503
General procedures.
(a) Claims shall be sworn and shall include the following information in clear and concise terms:
(1) A complete description of the property including serial numbers, if any.
(2) The interest of the claimant in the property, as owner, mortgagee, or otherwise, to be supported by bills of sale, contracts, mortgages, or other satisfactory documentary evidence.
(3) The facts and circumstances, to be established by satisfactory proof, relied upon by the claimant to justify the granting of the claim.
(b) If the claim is filed before title has vested in the United States, the determining official shall not grant the claim for the abandoned or other unclaimed property unless the claimant establishes a valid, good faith interest in the property.
(c) If the claim is filed after title has vested in the United States, the determining official shall not grant the claim for abandoned or other unclaimed property unless the claimant:
(1) Establishes that he would have a valid, good faith interest in the property had not title vested in the United States; and
(2) Establishes that he had no actual or constructive notice, prior to the vesting of title in the United States, that the property was in the custody of a bureau and that title, after the appropriate time period, would vest in the United States. A claimant shall be presumed to have constructive notice upon publication in a suitable medium concerning the property unless he was in such circumstances as to prevent him from knowing of the status of the property or having the opportunity to see the notice.
Pt. 128-50

# PART 128-50—SEIZED PERSONAL PROPERTY
Sec.
128-50.000
Scope of part.
128-50.001
Definitions.
128-50.001-1
Seized personal property.

# Subpart 128-50.1—Storage and Care of Seized Personal Property
128-50.100
Storage and care.
128-50.101
Inventory records.
128-50.102
Periodic reviews.
128-50.103
Investigation of any discrepancy.

# Authority:
41 CFR 128-1.105.

# Source:
43 FR 3279, Jan. 24, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 128-50.000
Scope of part.
This part prescribes the policies for the storage and care of seized personal property; the preparation and maintenance of inventory records of its seized personal property; the conducting of periodic internal reviews; and the investigation of any discrepancy between the inventory records and the actual amount of its seized personal property.
§ 128-50.001
Definitions.
§ 128-50.001-1
Seized personal property.
Personal property for which the Government does not have title but which the Government has obtained custody or control of in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 1177; 18 U.S.C. 924(d), 1955(d), 2513, 3611, 3612, 3615; 19 U.S.C. 1595a; 21 U.S.C. 881; 22 U.S.C. 401; Fed. R. Crim. P. 41(b); 28 CFR 0.86, 0.89, 0.111(j), 3.5, 3.6, 8.1, 8.2, 9a.1, 9a.2; or other statutory authority.

# Subpart 128-50.1—Storage and Care of Seized Personal Property
§ 128-50.100
Storage and care.
(a) Each bureau shall be responsible for providing that its seized personal property storage facilities meet the safeguarding standards applicable to the type of property being stored.
(b) Each bureau shall be responsible for performing care on its seized personal property to prevent the unnecessary deterioration of such property. In particular, a bureau preparing a seized vehicle for storage should be at a minimum;
(1) Protect the cooling system from freezing;
(2) Protect the battery by assuring it is properly watered;
(3) Protect the tires by inflating to correct pressure;
(4) Remove all articles found in the vehicle's interior (for example, easily removable radios, tape players, and speakers) and all exterior accessories (for example, wheel covers) that are subject to pilferage and properly store them; and
(5) Shut all windows and lock all doors and compartments that have locks.
§ 128-50.101
Inventory records.
Each bureau shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining inventory records of its seized personal property to ensure that:
(a) The date the property was seized is recorded;
(b) All of the property associated with a case is recorded together under the case name and number;
(c) The location of storage of the property is recorded;
(d) A well documented chain of custody is kept; and
(e) All information in the inventory records is accurate and current.
§ 128-50.102
Periodic reviews.
Each bureau shall be responsible for performing an independent accountability review at least once a year to ensure compliance with this subpart and with the bureau's procedures for the handling, storage, and disposal of its seized personal property. In particular, a bureau conducting a review shall verify that the inventory records are accurate, current, and are being kept in accordance with established inventory procedures.
§ 128-50.103
Investigation of any discrepancy.
(a) Upon discovery of any discrepancy between the inventory records and the bureau's actual amount of seized personal property, a board of survey shall conduct an investigation in accordance with 41 CFR 128-51.1.
(b) If the discrepancy cannot be eliminated and involves a shortage, the bureau shall notify the U.S. attorney in charge of the litigation involving the missing property of the shortage as soon as possible.
(c) If the discrepancy cannot be eliminated and involves an overage,
the bureau shall determine if the property has any evidentiary value. If the property does have evidentiary value, the property shall be properly stored and inventoried. If the property does not have any evidentiary value, the bureau shall determine whether the property is forfeitable to the United States, voluntarily abandoned, or abandoned. Proper proceedings shall be commenced as soon as possible to vest title of the forfeitable property in the United States. The voluntarily abandoned and abandoned property shall be kept in custody in accordance with 41 CFR 101-48 and any applicable Justice property management regulations.
CHAPTERS 129-200 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
41 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
41 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter 102
102-34 Guidance
82358
102-77 Revised
60384
102-82 Revised
5903
102-83 Policy statement
60385
Chapter 105
105-60 Revised
5138
105-60.1001—105-60.1008 (Subpart L) Added
52050
2021
41 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter 105
105-70.003 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) amended
21949
2022
41 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter 102
102-35.10 (e) through (g) revised
6043
102-74 Authority citation revised
54170
102-74.410 (d) through (f) redesignated as (e) through (g); new (d) added
54170
102-77 Revised
5717
102-81 Revised
51919
102-117.20 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.25 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.35 (b)(2) amended; (b)(3) removed; (b)(4) redesignated as new (b)(3); eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.65 (f) revised; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.80 (b) revised; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.85 (a) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.135 (a)(1)(i) amended; (b) revised; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.140 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.145 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.150 (c) revised; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.155 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.170 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32322
102-117.185 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.220 (a)(3) amended; note removed; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.235 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.240 Note redesignated as Note 1 and amended; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.250 (b) revised; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.260 (c) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.270 (a) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.300 (b) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.315 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.325 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.335 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.340 (b) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.345 Removed; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.350 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.360 Removed; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.361—102-117.362 (Subpart L) Heading revised; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.361 Heading, introductory text, and (b) revised; eff. 8-29-22
32323
102-117.362 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-117.385 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-117.390 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.35 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.40 (b) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.65 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.80 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.90 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.92 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.95 (b) and (d) revised; note removed; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.100 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.105 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.110 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.115 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.140 (a) and (d) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32324
102-118.170 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.195 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.230 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.240 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.245 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.260 (a) revised; (d) and (e) removed; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.275 (c)(3) and (4) revised; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.280 (a)(1) revised; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.285 (e)(2) and (i) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.415 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.470 Heading and introductory text revised; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.490 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.500 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.505 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32325
102-118.510 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.520 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.530 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.535 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.540 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.550 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.560 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.575 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.580 Heading revised; introductory text amended; (a) through (d) removed; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.590 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.600 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.605 (b) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.610 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.615 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.620 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.630 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.635 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.640 (a), (b), and (d) amended; eff. 8-29-22
32326
102-118.645 Revised; eff. 8-29-22
32327
102-118.655 Introductory text amended; (a) through (d) removed; eff. 8-29-22
32327
102-118.670 Amended; eff. 8-29-22
32327
102-173 Removed; interim
1081
102-173 Removed
44280
Chapter 105
105-70 Authority citation revised
2350
105-70.003 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) amended
2350
2023
41 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter 102
102-39.20 Amended
25511
102-39.25 Amended
25511
102-39.40 Revised
25511
102-39.60 (a) revised
25511
102-39.65 (d) amended; (e) redesignated as (f); new (e) added
25511
102-39.80 Amended
25511
102-39.85 Revised
25511
102-39.90 Added
25511
102-73 Authority citation revised
14065
102-73.5 Revised
14065
102-73.310—103-73.340 (Subpart D) Added
14065
Chapter 105
105-64.001 Amended
32140
105-64.107 (c) added
32140
105-70.003 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) amended
2248
2024
41 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter 102
102-3 Revised
27679
102-5.30 Amended
67866
102-5.35 Heading revised; nomenclature change
67866
102-5.70 (a) amended
67866
102-5.75 (b) and note revised; (c) amended
67866
102-5.90 Heading revised; nomenclature change
67866
102-5.105 Amended
67866
102-36.5 Amended
67866
102-36.40 Amended
67866
102-36.60 (d) amended
67866
102-36.115 (a)(1) amended
67866
102-36.155 (d) amended
67866
102-38.110 Amended
67866
102-38.195 Amended
67866
102-38.240 Heading revised; (b) amended
67866
102-38.255 (a) amended
67867
102-38.260 Amended
67867
102-39.20 Amended
67867
102-40.135 (b) amended
67867
102-40.145 (a) amended
67867
102-40.160 (c)(1) and (2) amended
67867
102-40.165 (d)(1) and (2) amended
67867
102-40.170 (g) amended
67867
102-40.190 (b) amended
67867
102-41.135 Heading revised
67867
102-42.10 Amended
67867
102-42.20 (a) introductory text, (1), and (b)(1) amended
67867
102-75.1160—102-75.1219 (Subpart H) Revised
89889
102-76 Authority citation revised
55078
102-76 Technical correction
57775
102-76.100—102-76.125 Undesignated center heading added
55078
102-83 Revised
29269
102-117.240 Heading revised
93199
102-117.295 (b) amended
93199
102-118.20 (a) revised; (c) amended
93195
102-118.25 Amended
93195
102-118.35 Amended
93195
102-118.40 (a) and (b) amended
93195
102-118.45 (a)(1)(i), (3)(i), and (ii) revised
93195
102-118.75 Revised
93196
102-118.80 Amended
93196
102-118.115 Revised
93196
102-118.130 Amended
93196
102-118.150 (a) revised
93196
102-118.235 Revised
93196
102-118.255 Revised
93196
102-118.260 (a) revised
93196
102-118.285 (e) revised; (f) removed; (g) through (m) redesignated as (f) through (l)
93196
102-118.300 (a) amended
93196
102-118.425 Heading and (a) revised
93196
102-118.430 (f) revised; (g) amended
93196
102-118.435 (a)(7) amended
93196
102-118.440 Amended
93196
102-118.455 Revised
93196
102-118.460 Revised
93197
102-118.470 Heading and introductory text revised
93197
102-118.490 Revised
93197
102-118.500 (a) revised
93197
102-118.510 Heading revised; section amended
93197
102-118.540 Revised
93197
102-118.545 Revised
93198
102-118.550 Heading revised
93198
102-118.555 Heading revised; section amended
93198
102-118.560 Revised
93198
102-118.565 Heading revised; section amended
93198
102-118.600 Revised
93198
102-118.610 Revised
93198
102-118.615 Revised
93198
102-118.630 Revised
93198
102-118.645 Revised
93198
Chapter 105
105-70.003 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) amended
1833
105-70.003 (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(ii) amended; (f) and (g) added
103663
2025
(Regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
41 CFR
90 FR
Page
Chapter 102
102-74 Notification
19658
○
