(ii) Proposed rental rates for the migrant units to generate sufficient funds for operating costs of those units, taking into consideration all other sources of project income; and
(iii) Estimated rental income from tenants, based on a tenant contribution of 30 percent of the average adjusted monthly income of migrant farmworker households in the area.
(2)
Requesting operating assistance payments.
Each month, the owner will submit a request for operating assistance to the Agency.
(3)
Verifying tenant income eligibility.
Owners are responsible for verifying tenant income eligibility. Only very low or low-income households are eligible for the operating assistance rents. Households with incomes above the low-income limits must pay the full rent.
(4)
Reporting requirements.
(i) Owners will complete and submit to the Agency tenant certifications to document tenant income and eligibility.
(ii) Owners will complete and submit monthly to the Agency a project worksheet for operating assistance.
(iii) Owners must submit an annual planning budget to the Agency prior to the project's fiscal year.
§ 3560.575
Rental structure and changes.
Off-farm labor housing is subject to the tenant contribution and rental unit rent requirements for Plan II housing established under subpart E of this part, except where seasonal housing will be occupied for less than a 3-month period. In such instances the best available and practical income verification methods may be used with prior approval of the Agency.
§ 3560.576
Occupancy restrictions.
(a)
Restrictions on conditions of occupancy.
(1) No borrower or grantee will be permitted to require that an occupant work on any particular farm or for any particular owner or interest as a condition of occupancy of the housing.
(2) Tenant selection should be in accordance with the loan agreement, subpart D of this part and § 3560.577.
(3) No borrower or grantee will discriminate, or permit discrimination by any agent, lessee, or other operator in the use or occupancy of the housing or related facilities because of race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, familial status, or national origin.
(b)
Eligible households.
To be eligible for occupancy in off-farm labor housing, households must meet the following requirements.
(1)
Occupational.
An eligible household must include a domestic tenant or co-tenant farm laborer, a retired domestic farm laborer, or a disabled domestic farm laborer.
(2)
Income.
The household must meet the definition of income eligible as established in § 3560.152 and the tenant or co-tenant must receive a substantial portion of income from farm labor employment. To determine if a substantial portion of income is from farm labor employment, the following measures will be used.
(i) For housing rented to farm laborers and owned by public bodies, public or private nonprofit organizations, and limited partnerships when charging rent.
(A) Actual dollars earned from farm labor by domestic farm laborers other than migrant farmworkers must equal at least 65 percent of the annual income limits indicated for the Standard Federal regions as published by the Agency for their particular region of the country. For migrant farmworkers living in seasonal housing the actual dollars earned from farm labor by a domestic farm laborer must equal at least 50 percent of annual income limits indicated for the Standard Federal regions, as published by the Agency.
(B) An alternate measure for determining substantial portion of income when actual earnings are not available may be the duration of time a farm laborer worked on a farm or other farming enterprise as a domestic farmworker during the preceding 12 months. In order to be considered as substantial the farm laborer must have worked at least 110 whole days in farm work. For purposes of this section one whole day is the equivalent of at least 7 hours. When using a period of more than 1 year, a yearly average must amount to at least 110 days per year.
(ii) For housing owned by a farmer, family-farm partnership, family-farm corporation, or an association of farmers which was initially provided on a non-rental basis, a substantial portion of income is earned when housing is
provided by the owner as part of employment compensation for farm labor.
(iii) When a natural disaster has occurred, such as a drought, flood, freeze, etc., figures for the 12 months preceding such disaster will be used to determine substantial portion of income under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(iv) The tenant who qualifies as a domestic farm laborer residing in a property with a nonrestrictive farm labor clause in the mortgage covenants must not have adjusted income which exceeds the moderate income limit for the appropriate household size and appropriate geographical area.
(3)
Occupancy.
The household must remain in compliance with the borrower's occupancy policy as established in § 3560.155.
(c)
Tenant eligibility requirements for operating assistance rents.
To be eligible for operating assistance rents, tenants must meet the rental assistance eligibility requirements described in § 3560.573 and in § 3560.252.
(d)
Ineligible tenants.
Tenants who, at any time, fail to meet all the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section will be deemed ineligible for occupancy in off-farm labor housing. Ineligible tenants in off-farm labor housing will be addressed in accordance with the requirements of § 3560.158.
(e)
Non-farm laborer tenants.
When there is a diminished need for housing for persons or families in the above categories, units in off-farm labor housing complexes may be made available to persons or families eligible for occupancy under § 3560.152. Eligible tenants under this section may occupy the labor housing until such time the units are again needed by persons or families eligible under paragraph (b) of this section. As the basis for Agency approval or disapproval of the borrower's determination of diminished need, the borrower must submit a current analysis of need and demand to the Agency, identical to the market analysis that is required of loan applicants in the loan origination process. The borrower's determination and the MFH Leadership Designee's recommendation should be forwarded to the National Office for concurrence. The procedures specified in § 3560.158 shall be followed when tenants are required to vacate housing to allow for occupancy by persons eligible under paragraph (b) of this section.
[69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 87 FR 11286, Mar. 1, 2022]
§ 3560.577
Tenant priorities for labor housing.
Tenant occupancy in off-farm labor housing is based on eligible farm labor certified through the income certification process required by § 3560.152 and is prioritized in the following order.
(a) First priority is to be given to eligible active farm laborer households with first priority going to very low-income households, next priority to low-income households, and last to moderate-income households.
(b) Second priority is given to retired domestic farm laborer households and disabled domestic farm laborer households who were active in the local farm labor market area at the time of retiring or becoming disabled. Occupancy priority will be given in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Third priority is to be given to retired domestic farm laborer households and disabled domestic farm laborer households who were not active in the local farm labor market at the time of retiring or becoming disabled. Occupancy priority will be given in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 3560.578
Financial management of labor housing.
The requirements established in subpart G of this part will apply to all off-farm labor housing.
§ 3560.579
Servicing off-farm labor housing.
The requirements established in subparts I and J of this part will apply to all off-farm labor housing. Servicing according to subparts I and J of this part shall apply throughout the term of the loan or grant, whichever is longer.
§§ 3560.580-3560.599
[Reserved]
§ 3560.600
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and
have been assigned OMB control number 0575-0189. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 15 minutes to 18 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart M—On-Farm Labor Housing
§ 3560.601
General.
This subpart contains the requirements for making loans for on-farm labor housing and for ongoing operation and management of on-farm labor housing. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the requirements of subparts A through K, N, O, and P of this part will apply in addition to requirements given in this subpart.
§ 3560.602
Program objectives.
In addition to the objectives stated in § 3560.52, on-farm labor housing funds will be used to increase:
(a) The supply of affordable housing for farm labor; and
(b) The ability of the farmer to provide affordable, decent, safe and sanitary housing for farm workers.
§ 3560.603
Loan purposes.
On-farm labor housing loans may be made only for the purposes established in § 3560.553. Grants are not available for on-farm labor housing.
§ 3560.604
Restrictions on use of funds.
On-farm labor housing loans may not be used for any purpose prohibited by § 3560.54 except § 3560.54(a)(1). On-farm labor housing may be used to serve migrant workers. In addition, on-farm labor housing loan funds may not be used to provide housing for members of the immediate family of the applicant when the applicant is an individual farm owner, family farm corporation, family farm partnership, or a member of an association of farmers. Immediate family includes mother, father, brothers, sisters, sons, and daughters of the applicant and spouse.
§ 3560.605
Eligibility requirements.
(a) To be eligible for an on-farm labor housing loan, the applicant must meet the requirements of § 3560.55(a) with the exception of § 3560.55(a)(1), (5), and (6) and the following requirements.
(1) The applicant must be a farm owner, family farm partnership, family farm corporation, or an association of farmers engaged in agricultural or aquacultural farming operations whose farming operations demonstrate a need for on-farm labor housing and who will own the housing and operate it on a nonprofit basis.
(2) The applicant must agree to use the labor housing to engage in the farming operations of the individual farm owner applicant, or in the farming operations of its members if it is a family farm corporation or partnership, or an association of farmers.
(3) The applicant must, as determined by the Agency, be unable to provide the necessary housing from the applicant's own resources and be unable to obtain credit from any other source upon terms and conditions which the applicant could reasonably be expected to fulfill. If the applicant is an association of farmers or family farm corporation or partnership, the individual members, individually and jointly, must be unable to provide the necessary housing by utilizing their own resources and be unable, by pledging their personal liability, to obtain other credit that would enable them to provide housing for farm workers at rental rates they can afford to pay. The individual resources of family farm corporation or partnership members with less than a 10 percent corporate or partnership interest should not be considered when determining if the applicant can obtain credit elsewhere.
(b) The Agency may make an exception to the requirement that an individual farm owner, family farm corporation, family farm partnership or an association of farmers be unable to obtain the necessary credit elsewhere when all of the following conditions exist:
(1) There is a housing need in the area for domestic farmworkers who are
migrants and the applicant will provide such housing; and
(2) There are no qualified state or political subdivisions or public or private nonprofit organizations available, or likely to become available within 12 months of the application, that are willing and able to provide the housing.
(c) When an applicant is determined eligible under paragraph (b) of this section, the interest rate for such loans will be determined in accordance with 7 CFR part 1810, subpart A.
(d) On-farm labor housing that consists of buildings with less than three units is not subject to the requirement that five percent of the units be constructed as fully accessible units, as described in § 3560.60(d).
§ 3560.606
Application requirements and processing.
(a) On-farm labor housing loan applications will be processed according to 7 CFR part 1940, subpart L. Applicants must submit an application in an Agency-approved format that adequately documents the need for the housing and the eligibility of the applicant.
(b) The applicant must certify that the farm workers for which the housing is intended are or will be involved in the applicant's agricultural or aquacultural farming operations.
(c) The applicant must certify that housing operations will be conducted in a non-profit manner such that income from the housing does not exceed eligible expenses associated with the housing. Eligible expenditures for the housing include, but are not limited to housing repairs and upkeep, payment of installments on the loan, taxes, insurance and reserves and other essential uses needed for success of the operations.
§ 3560.607
[Reserved]
§ 3560.608
Site and construction requirements.
(a)
General.
Cost and development standards for on-farm labor housing will be consistent with the requirements, standards, and cost limits specified in subpart B of this part, if the housing is a multi-family housing type structure, or consistent with section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949, if the housing is a single family type structure.
(b)
Permanent units.
On-farm labor housing occupied for 8 months or more of the year will be required to meet the following requirements.
(1) Housing may be multi-family or single family in type and may be located on the farm away from farm service buildings, or in the nearby community. Single-family type housing is defined as an individual or a group of individual single family detached dwelling units. All sites and housing shall be planned and constructed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subparts A and C.
(2) Sites must be accessible from a public road, when feasible.
(c)
Seasonal units.
On-farm labor housing occupied for less than 8 months of the year will be considered seasonal housing. Such housing must meet the following requirements.
(1) Housing designed for seasonal occupancy may be either single family or multi-family.
(2) Seasonal housing may be constructed in accordance with exhibit I of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A. If constructed in accordance with exhibit I, the housing must be suitable to allow for conversion to full-year occupancy if the need for migrant farmworkers in the area declines.
(d)
Accessibility.
On-farm labor housing that consists of buildings with less than three units, need not meet the requirement that five percent of the units be constructed as fully accessible units, as described in § 3560.60(d). This does not, however, eliminate any other accessibility requirements.
§ 3560.609
[Reserved]
§ 3560.610
Security.
(a) Security instruments must meet the requirements established under § 3560.560.
(b) When feasible, the on-farm labor housing will be located on a tract of land that is surveyed such that, for security purposes, it is considered separate and distinct from the farm. The security for the loan must include a lien on the tract of land where the on-farm labor housing is located and the
security must have adequate value to protect the Federal government's interest. The Agency will seek a first or parity lien position on Agency-financed property in all instances, however, the Agency may accept a junior lien position if the Federal government's interests are adequately secured.
(c) The Agency will determine the value of the security for the loan in accordance with 7 CFR part 1922, subpart B if the farm is used as security or in accordance with section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949, if only the on-farm labor housing and related land is used for security.
(d) If necessary to provide adequate security for the loan, the Agency may require that any household furnishings purchased with loan funds also be secured.
(e) Personal liability and recourse will be required of all borrowers, including the individual members, stockholders or partners of an association of farmers, family farm corporations or partnerships, respectively.
§ 3560.611
Technical, legal, insurance and other services.
When technical, legal, insurance, or services are required for development of on-farm labor housing, applicants must comply with the applicable requirements of § 3560.62. Regarding insurance coverage, the requirements of § 3560.62(d) apply to on-farm labor housing.
§ 3560.612
Loan limits.
The maximum loan amount will be 100 percent of the allowable total development costs of on-farm labor housing and related facilities subject to §§ 3560.603, 3560.604 and 3560.608.
§ 3560.613
[Reserved]
§ 3560.614
Reserve accounts.
When on-farm labor housing operations include 12 or more units, the Agency will require such properties to comply with the reserve account requirements in § 3560.65.
§ 3560.615
Participation with other funding sources.
The Agency encourages the use of other funding sources in conjunction with on-farm labor housing loans. Use of such financing in conjunction with an on-farm labor housing loan is subject to the approval of the Agency and must comply with the requirements of § 3560.66.
§ 3560.616
Rates and terms.
(a) The interest rate for on-farm labor housing loans will be 1 percent.
(b) The term of the on-farm labor housing loan will not exceed 33 years.
(c) Loan amortization for on-farm labor housing may be on a monthly or an annual basis.
§ 3560.617
[Reserved]
§ 3560.618
Supplemental requirements for on-farm labor housing.
The management plan for on-farm labor housing operated on a seasonal basis must have specific opening and closing dates. During the off-season, on-farm labor housing may be used under short-term lease provisions.
§ 3560.619
Supplemental requirements for manufactured housing.
On-farm labor housing loan funds used for manufactured housing must comply with § 3560.70. Manufactured housing located on-farm may consist of individual units.
§ 3560.620
Construction financing.
The requirements established in § 3560.71 apply to all applications involving on-farm labor housing loans.
§ 3560.621
Loan closing.
Applicants for on-farm labor housing loans must execute an Agency-approved loan agreement. In addition, if determined appropriate by the Agency, on-farm labor housing loans made on or after the effective date of this regulation may be subject to the restrictive-use provisions as stated in § 3560.72(a)(2)(ii). All other on-farm labor housing loans are subject to the restrictive-use provisions contained in their loan documents and as outlined in subpart N of this regulation.
§ 3560.622
Subsequent loans.
The requirements established in § 3560.572 apply to all applications for
on-farm labor housing subsequent loans.
§ 3560.623
Housing management and operations.
Borrowers with on-farm labor housing loans must:
(a) Develop and submit to the Agency a management plan in a format specified by the Agency. At a minimum, the management plan will detail the borrower's operational and occupancy policies, how the borrower will deal with resident complaints, and how repairs will be completed; and
(b) Maintain a lease or employment contract with each tenant specifying employment with the borrower as a condition for continued occupancy.
§ 3560.624
Occupancy restrictions.
(a) The immediate relatives of the borrowers are ineligible occupants for on-farm labor housing.
(b) Occupants must meet the definition of a domestic farm laborer, as defined in § 3560.11.
(a) Occupancy of on-farm labor housing is restricted to employees of the borrower unless otherwise approved by the Agency.
(d) With prior written permission of the Agency, on-farm labor housing may be occupied by ineligible tenants on a short-term basis. The permission of the Agency must also be for a limited duration.
§ 3560.625
Maintaining the physical asset.
On-farm labor housing must meet state and local building and occupancy codes.
§ 3560.626
Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan.
On-farm labor housing must meet the requirements of § 3560.104.
§ 3560.627
Response to resident complaints.
The management plan submitted in accordance with § 3560.623 (a) will include a provision for dealing with resident complaints.
§ 3560.628
Establishing and modifying rental charges.
If it becomes necessary to establish or modify a shelter cost, the borrower must obtain Agency approval as specified in subpart E of this part.
§ 3560.629
Security deposits.
Borrowers that require security deposits to be paid by the tenants will be required to comply with the requirements of § 3560.204.
§ 3560.630
Financial management.
Financial information must be submitted in an Agency-approved format and will show operation of the housing in a non-profit manner.
§ 3560.631
Agency monitoring.
A compliance review and physical inspection will be conducted by the Agency at least once every 3 years. The purpose of this review will be to inspect:
(a) Tenant eligibility documentation;
(b) Financial information on the operation and management of the labor housing, including relevant borrower financial materials;
(c) Payment of taxes, insurance and hazard insurance;
(d) Compliance with the security deposit requirements;
(e) Compliance with the operating plan;
(f) Compliance with the loan agreement;
(g) Compliance with Agency requirements for affordable, decent, safe, and sanitary housing; and
(h) Compliance with civil rights requirements.
§§ 3560.632-3560.649
[Reserved]
§ 3560.650
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB control number 0575-0189. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 15 minutes to 18 hours per response, including time for
reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart N—Housing Preservation
§ 3560.651
General.
(a) This subpart contains the Agency's housing preservation requirements as related to prepayment requests and restrictive-use provisions (RUPs). The requirements of this subpart support the Agency's commitment to the preservation of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable multi-family housing (MFH) for very low-, low-, and moderate-income households.
(b) The Agency will coordinate, direct, and monitor the Agency's MFH preservation activities from the National Office level.
§ 3560.652
Prepayment and restrictive-use categories.
(a) Loans with prepayment prohibitions include:
(1) Initial section 515 loans made on or after December 15, 1989, and
(2) Subsequent loans made on or after December 15, 1989, for additional rental units.
(b) Loans without prepayment prohibitions but with restrictive-use provisions include:
(1) All loans made after December 21, 1979, but prior to December 15, 1989;
(2) Subsequent loans made on or after December 15, 1989, for purposes other than additional rental units; or
(3) Loans subsequently restricted by servicing actions including transfers.
(c) Loans without prepayment prohibitions or restrictive-use provisions include all loans made on or before December 21, 1979 or loans that had restrictive-use provisions that have expired. Such loans are eligible to receive incentives subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(d) Loans may be prepaid if another loan or grant from the Agency imposes the same or more stringent restrictive-use provisions on the housing project covered by the loan being prepaid.
§ 3560.653
Prepayment requests.
(a) Borrowers seeking to prepay an Agency loan must submit a written prepayment request to the Agency at least 180 days in advance of the anticipated prepayment date and must obtain Agency approval before the Agency will accept prepayment.
(b) Prior to submitting a prepayment request, borrowers must take whatever actions are necessary to provide the following items:
(1) A clear description of the loan to be prepaid, the housing project covered by the loan being prepaid, and the requested date of prepayment.
(2) A statement documenting the borrower's ability to prepay under the terms specified.
(3) A certification that the borrower will comply with any federal, state, or local laws or regulations which may relate to the prepayment request and a statement of actions needed to assure such compliance.
(4) A copy of lease language to be used during the period between the submission date and the final resolution of the prepayment request notifying tenant applicants that the owner of the housing project has submitted a prepayment request to the Agency and explaining the potential effect of the request on the lease.
(5) Borrowers are required to submit a signed release of information form along with the prepayment request. The Agency will notify nonprofit organizations and public bodies involved in providing affordable housing or financial assistance to tenants of the receipt of a borrower's request to prepay their loan(s). Additionally, the Agency is to notify nonprofit organizations and public bodies whenever a borrower, who has requested prepayment, is required or elects to offer their property for sale to a nonprofit or public body.
(6) A certification that the borrower has notified all governmental entities involved in providing affordable housing or financial assistance to tenants in the project and that the borrower has provided a statement specifying how long financial assistance from such parties will be provided to tenants after prepayment.
(7) A statement affirming that units in the property applying for prepayment will continue to be available for rent by eligible residents during the prepayment process.
(c) The Agency will review complete requests to determine if:
(1) The loan is eligible for prepayment under § 3560.652(b);
(2) The borrower has the ability to prepay; and
(3) The borrower has complied or has the ability to comply with applicable Federal, state, and local laws related to the prepayment request.
(d) If a prepayment request lacks full and complete information on any item, the Agency will return the prepayment request to the borrower with a letter citing the deficiencies in the prepayment request. The Agency will offer borrowers an opportunity, within 30 days following the date of the return, to address the reasons given by the Agency for the return of the prepayment request and will allow the borrower to submit a revised prepayment request.
(e) If the Agency determines that the prepayment request appropriately satisfies all the conditions listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the Agency will process the prepayment request and make a reasonable effort to enter into a new restrictive-use agreement with the borrower in accordance with § 3560.662 or § 3560.655. If the Agency determines that a loan is ineligible for prepayment or the borrower does not have the ability to prepay, the Agency will return the prepayment request to the borrower with a written explanation of the Agency's determinations.
[69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 65506, Nov. 4, 2008]
§ 3560.654
Tenant notification requirements.
(a) Within 30 calendar days of receiving a complete prepayment request, the Agency will send a prepayment request notice to each tenant in the housing project. Borrowers must post the Agency's prepayment request notice in public areas throughout the housing project from the date of the notice until the final resolution of the prepayment request. The prepayment request notice will establish a date and place where tenants may meet with the Agency to discuss the prepayment request and will advise tenants that:
(1) They may review all information submitted with the prepayment request except financial information regarding the borrower entity, which the Agency will withhold from tenant review unless given written permission for the release of the information from the borrower; and,
(2) They have 30 days from the date of the prepayment request notice to give the Agency comments on the prepayment request.
(b) Borrowers may provide a prepayment request notice of their own directly to tenants and may establish a date and place where tenants may meet with the borrower to discuss the prepayment request. The Agency and other providers of housing assistance for very-low, low, and moderate-income households may attend a borrower's prepayment request meeting with tenants.
(c) If the Agency agrees to accept prepayment on a loan, the Agency will send a prepayment acceptance notice to each tenant in the housing project at least 60 days prior to the prepayment date. Borrowers must post copies of the Agency's prepayment acceptance notice in public areas throughout the housing project until prepayment is made. If the prepayment acceptance was based on a borrower's agreement to comply with restrictive-use provisions, the notice will describe the restrictive-use provisions that will apply to the housing project after prepayment and the tenant's rights to enforcement of the provisions.
(d) If the borrower withdraws the prepayment request, the Agency will provide a prepayment request cancellation notice to each tenant in the housing project. Borrowers must post copies of the prepayment request cancellation notice in the public areas throughout the housing project for a period of 60 days following the date of the prepayment request cancellation notice.
(e) If the borrower agrees to accept incentives and restrictive-use provisions, the Agency will notify each tenant, in writing, of the agreement and provide a description of the restrictive-use provision.
(f) If a borrower agrees to sell a housing project involved in a prepayment request to a nonprofit organization or public body, the Agency will notify each tenant, in writing, of the proposed sale to a nonprofit organization or public body and will explain the timeframes involved with the proposed sale, any potential impact on tenants, and the actions tenants may take to alleviate any adverse impact. Borrowers must post copies of the Agency's proposed sale notice in public areas throughout the housing project until the housing project is sold or the offer to sell is withdrawn.
(g) If a tenant applicant signs a lease in a housing project for which a prepayment request has been submitted, the borrower must provide the tenant with copies of all notifications provided to tenants by the Agency or the borrower prior to the tenant's occupancy in the housing project.
(h) If a borrower is unable to sell a housing project involved in a prepayment request to a nonprofit organization or public body within 180 days as specified in § 3560.659, the Agency will send a notice to each tenant in the housing project explaining the potential impact of the borrower's inability to sell the housing project on tenants and the actions tenants may take to alleviate any adverse impact. Borrowers must post the Agency's notice in public areas throughout the housing project for a period of 60 days following the date of the notice.
§ 3560.655
Agency requested extension.
Before accepting an offer to prepay from a borrower with a restricted loan, the Agency must first make a reasonable effort to enter into a new restrictive-use agreement with the borrower. Under this agreement, the borrower would make a binding commitment to extend the low-income use of the housing and related facilities for 20 years for loans with interest credit, beginning on the date on which the new agreement is executed. If the borrower is unwilling to enter into a new restrictive-use provisions and restrictive-use agreement, the Agency should proceed to take the actions described in § 3560.658.
§ 3560.656
Incentives offers.
(a) The Agency may offer a borrower, who submits a prepayment request meeting the conditions of § 3560.653(d), incentives to agree to the restrictive-use period in § 3560.662 if the following conditions are met:
(1) The market value of the housing project is determined by the Agency, based on an appraisal conducted in accordance with subpart P of this part.
(2) There are no restrictive-use agreements or prepayment prohibitions in effect.
(b) Specific incentives offered will be based on the Agency's assessment of:
(1) The value of the housing project as determined by the Agency based on an “as-is” market value appraisal conducted in accordance with subpart P of this part;
(2) An incentive amount that will provide a fair return to the borrower;
(3) An incentive amount that will not cause basic rents at the housing project to exceed conventional rents for comparable units; except that when determined necessary by the Agency to allow for decent, safe and sanitary housing to be provided in market areas where conventional rents are not sufficient to cover necessary operating, maintenance, and reserve costs. Basic rents may be allowed to exceed comparable rents for conventional units, but in no case by more than 150% of the comparable rent for conventional unit rent level; and
(4) An incentive amount that will be the least costly alternative for the Federal Government while being consistent with the Agency's commitment to the preservation of housing for very-low, low, and moderate income households in rural areas.
(c) The Agency may offer the following incentives:
(1) The Agency may increase the borrower's annual return on equity by one of the following two methods. The actual withdrawal of the return remains subject to the procedures and conditions for withdrawal specified in subpart G of this part.
(i) The Agency may recognize the borrower's current equity in the housing project. The equity will be determined using an Agency accepted appraisal based on the housing project's
value as unsubsidized conventional housing.
(ii) When a current appraisal indicates an equity loan can not be made, the Agency may recognize the borrower's current equity in the housing project at the higher of the original rate of return or the current 15-year Treasury bond rate plus 2 percent rounded to the nearest one-quarter percent. The equity will be determined using the most recent Agency accepted appraisal of the housing project prior to receiving the prepayment request.
(2) The Agency may agree to convert projects without interest credit or with Plan I interest credit to Plan II interest credit or increase the interest credit subsidy for loans with Section 8 assistance to lower the interest rate on the loan and make basic rents more financially feasible.
(3) The Agency may offer additional rental assistance, or an increase in assistance provided under existing contracts under §§ 521(a)(2), 521(a)(5) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490a(a)(2)) or section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. § 1437f).
(4) The Agency may make an equity loan to the borrower. The equity loan must not adversely affect the borrower's ability to repay other Agency loans held by the borrower and must be made in conformance with the following requirements:
(i) The equity loan must not exceed the difference between the current unpaid loan balance and 90 percent of the housing project's value as determined by an “as-is” market value appraisal conducted in accordance with subpart P of this part.
(ii) Borrowers with farm labor housing loans are not eligible to receive equity loans as incentives.
(iii) If an incentive offer for an equity loan is accepted, the equity loan may be processed and closed with the borrower or any eligible transferee.
(iv) Excess reserve funds will be used to reduce the amount of an equity loan offered to a borrower.
(v) Equity loans may not be offered unless the Agency determines that other incentives are not adequate to provide a fair return on the investment of the borrower to prevent prepayment of the loan or to prevent displacement of project tenants.
(5) The Agency will offer rental assistance to protect tenants from rent overburden caused by any rent increase as a result of a borrower's acceptance of an incentive offer or tenants who are currently overburdened.
(6) In housing projects with project-based section 8 assistance, the Agency may permit the borrower to receive rents in excess of the amounts determined necessary by the Agency to defray the cost of long-term repair or maintenance of such a project.
(d) The Agency must determine that the combination of assistance provided is necessary to provide a fair return on the investment of the borrower and is the least costly alternative for the Federal Government.
(e) At the time a specific incentive offer is developed, the Agency must take into consideration the costs of any deferred maintenance, items in the housing project's operating budget, and any expected long-term repair or replacement costs based on a capital needs assessment developed in accordance with § 3560.103(c). Deferred maintenance may include specific items identified in previous Agency inspections where the borrower has had the opportunity and resources available to take corrective actions and did not.
(1) Deferred maintenance does not include routine repair and replacement that results from normal wear and tear of the physical asset. The amount required for the reserve account to be considered fully funded will be adjusted accordingly. To determine if basic rents exceed conventional rents for comparable units in the area, monthly contributions necessary to obtain the adjusted fully funded reserve account will be included in the calculation of basic rents.
(2) Deferred maintenance including any deficiencies identified in project compliance with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 must be addressed as part of the development of the incentive and must be completed as part of an acceptance agreement of any incentive.
(f) Existing loans must be consolidated, provided consolidation retains
the Agency's lien position, and reamortized in accordance with subparts I and J of this part, provided it maintains feasibility of the housing for the tenants or reduces the debt service or the level of monthly rental assistance.
(g) The borrower must accept or reject the incentive offer within 30 days. If no answer to the offer is received within 30 days, the Agency may consider the incentive offer to be rejected.
(1) If the borrower accepts the incentive offer, procedures outlined in § 3560.657 must be followed.
(2) If the borrower rejects the incentive offer, the borrower must comply with requirements listed in § 3560.658.
[69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 65506, Nov. 4, 2008; 87 FR 11286, Mar. 1, 2022]
§ 3560.657
Processing and closing incentive offers.
(a)
Borrower responsibilities.
If a borrower accepts the Agency's offer of incentives, the borrower must complete the following actions:
(1) Subject to the Agency's approval, the borrower must legally restrict the use of the project in accordance with and for the number of years stated in § 3560.662.
(2) If the incentive offer accepted includes an equity loan, the borrower must complete an application for the equity loan, and the borrower must continue to qualify as an eligible borrower or transferee in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(3) If the incentive offer accepted includes rent increases, the borrower must follow the rent increase requirements established in subpart E of this part.
(b)
Waiting lists.
If funds for components of incentive offers are limited, the Agency will establish a waiting list of accepted incentive offers for funding in the date order that the complete prepayment request was received.
(c)
Unfunded incentive offers.
If the borrower accepts the incentive offer but the Agency is unable to fund the incentive within 15 months, the borrower may choose one of the following actions:
(1) The borrower may offer to sell the housing project in accordance with § 3650.659. In this case the borrower will be removed from the list of borrowers awaiting incentives.
(2) The borrower may stay on the list of borrowers awaiting incentives until the borrower's incentive offer is funded. The Agency will not negotiate the incentive offer; but, at a borrower's request, may adjust the incentive amount to reflect an updated appraisal, loan balance, and terms of third party financing.
(3) The borrower may withdraw the prepayment request and be removed from the list of borrowers awaiting incentives and either continue operating the housing project for program purposes and in accordance with Agency requirements or continue processing their prepayment process in accordance with § 3560.658. If the borrower chooses to withdraw their request, the borrower may resubmit an updated prepayment request, at any time, and repeat the prepayment process in accordance with this subpart.
(4) The borrower may elect to obtain a third-party equity loan provided rents will not exceed comparable rents in the market area.
§ 3560.658
Borrower rejection of the incentive offer.
(a) If a borrower rejects the incentive package offered by the Agency or an Agency request to extended restrictive-use provisions, made in accordance with § 3560.662, the loan will only be prepaid if the borrower elects to agree to the following:
(1) The borrower agrees to sign restrictive-use provisions to extend restrictive-use by 10 years from the date of prepayment, and at the end of the restrictive-use period offer to sell the housing to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with § 3560.659.
(2) If housing opportunities for minorities would be lost as a result of prepayment, the borrower will offer to sell the housing to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with § 3560.659.
(b) If the borrower does not elect or agree to enter an agreement in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, then the Agency will assess the impact of prepayment on two factors: housing opportunities for minorities and the
supply of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing in the market area. The Agency will review relevant information to determine the availability of comparable affordable housing for existing tenants in the market area and if minorities in the project, on the waiting list or in the market area will be disproportionately adversely affected by the loss of the affordable rental housing units.
(1) If restrictive-use provisions are in place, the borrower will agree to sign the restrictive-use provisions, as determined by the Agency, and at the end of the restrictive-use period, offer to sell the housing to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with § 3560.659.
(2) If the Agency determines that prepayment will have an adverse impact on minorities, then the borrower must offer to sell to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) If the Agency determines that the prepayment will not have an adverse effect on housing opportunities for minorities but there is not an adequate supply of decent, safe, and sanitary rental housing affordable to program eligible tenant households in the market area, the loan may be prepaid only if the borrower agrees to sign restrictive-use provisions, as determined by the Agency, to protect tenants at the time of prepayment.
(4) If the Agency determines that there is no adverse impact on minorities and there is an adequate supply of decent, safe, and sanitary rental housing affordable to program eligible tenant households in the market area the prepayment will be accepted with no further restriction.
(c) If the borrower agrees to the restrictive-use provisions, as determined by the Agency, the applicable language must be included in the release documents and the borrower must execute a restrictive-use agreement acceptable to the Agency and a deed restriction.
(d) If the borrower will not agree to applicable restrictive-use provisions, as determined by the Agency, the borrower must offer to sell to a nonprofit or public body in accordance with § 3560.659 or withdraw their prepayment request.
[69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 65506, Nov. 4, 2008]
§ 3560.659
Sale or transfer to nonprofit organizations and public bodies.
(a)
Sales price.
For the purposes of establishing a sales price when a borrower is required or elects to sell a housing project to a nonprofit organization or public body, two independent appraisals will be ordered, one by the Agency and one by the borrower. Both appraisals will conclude market value and be in accordance with subpart P of this part. If the borrower's assessment of the Agency's appraised market value indicates that no further appraisal is needed, the borrower may agree to accept the Agency's appraisal.
(1) The expense of the borrower's appraisal shall be borne by the borrower. The appraiser selected may not have an identity of interest with the borrower.
(2) If the two appraisers fail to agree on the market value, the Agency and the borrower will jointly select an appraiser whose appraisal will be binding on the Agency and the borrower. The Agency and the borrower shall jointly fund the cost of the appraisal.
(b)
Marketing to nonprofit organizations and public bodies.
If a borrower must offer the property for sale to a nonprofit organization or public body under this paragraph, the borrower must take the following actions to inform appropriate entities of the sale:
(1) The borrower must advertise and offer to sell the project for a minimum of 180 days. The borrower may choose to suspend advertising and other sales efforts while eligibility of an interested purchaser is determined. If the purchaser is determined to be ineligible, the borrower must resume advertising for the balance of the required 180 days.
(2) The Agency will assist the borrower in initially notifying nonprofit organizations and public bodies.
(3) The borrower must provide the nonprofit organizations and public bodies contacted with sufficient information regarding the housing project and its operations for interested purchasers to make an informed decision. The information provided must include the minimum value of the housing project
based on the market value determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(4) If an interested purchaser requests additional information concerning the housing project, the borrower must promptly provide the requested materials.
(c)
Preference for local nonprofit and public bodies.
Local nonprofit organizations and public bodies have priority over regional and national nonprofit organizations and public bodies. The Agency may determine that no local nonprofit organizations or public bodies are available to purchase the housing project. After this determination, the borrower may accept an offer from a regional or national nonprofit organization or public body.
(d)
Eligible nonprofit organizations.
To be eligible to purchase properties under the conditions of this subpart, nonprofit organizations may not have among its officers or directorate any persons or parties with an identity-of-interest (or any persons or parties related to any person with identity-of-interest) in loans financed under section 515 that have been prepaid. In addition to local nonprofit organizations, eligible nonprofit organizations include regional or national nonprofit organizations or public bodies provided no part of the net earnings of which accrue to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor or individual.
(e)
Requirements for nonprofit organizations and public bodies.
To purchase and operate a housing project, a nonprofit organization or public body must meet the following requirements:
(1) The purchaser must agree to maintain the housing project for very low- and low-income families or persons for the remaining useful life of the housing and related facilities. However, currently eligible moderate-income tenants will not be required to move.
(2) The purchaser must agree that no subsequent transfer of the housing project will be permitted for the remaining useful life of the housing project unless the Agency determines that the transfer will further the provision of housing for low-income households, or there is no longer a need for the housing project. Language to be included in the deed, conveyance instrument, loan resolution, and assumption agreement (as applicable) is provided in § 3560.662.
(3) The purchaser must demonstrate financial feasibility of the housing project including anticipated funding.
(4) The purchaser must certify to the Agency that no identity-of-interest relationships in accordance with § 3560.102(g). The purchaser must not have any identity of interest with the seller or any borrower that has previously prepaid or requested prepayment of an Agency MFH loan.
(5) The purchaser must complete an Agency-approved application and obtain Agency approval in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(6) The purchaser must make a ;good faith offer taking into consideration the value of the housing project as determined in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(f)
Selection priorities.
If more than one qualified nonprofit organization or public body submits an offer to purchase the project at the same time, priority will be given to local nonprofit organizations and public bodies over regional and national nonprofit organizations or public bodies. When selecting between offers equally meeting all other criteria, the borrower will first consider the success of the nonprofit organization's or public body's previous experience in developing and maintaining subsidized housing, with preference given to the most successful. If the offers continue to be equal, the borrower will then consider the number of years experience that the nonprofit organization or public body has had in developing and maintaining subsidized housing, with preference given to the greater number of years.
(g)
Loans made by the Agency or other sources to nonprofit organizations and public bodies.
Agency loans to nonprofit organizations or public bodies may be made for the purposes described in this paragraph. Agency loans will be processed in accordance with subpart B of this part. Loans from other sources will be approved by the Agency in accordance with subpart I of this part.
(1) Agency loans to nonprofit organizations or public bodies for the purchase of a housing project will be based on the appraised value determined in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) With proper justification, an Agency loan may be made to help the nonprofit organization or public body meet the housing project's first year operating expenses if there are insufficient funds in the housing project's general operating and expense account to meet such expenses. An Agency loan, for the purpose of covering first year operating expenses, may not exceed 2 percent of the housing project's appraised value determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(h)
Advances for nonprofit organizations and public bodies.
The Agency may make advances, in accordance with section 502(c)(5)(c)(i), not in excess of limits established by Congress to nonprofit organizations or public bodies that are purchasing housing under this subpart. Grant funds may be used to cover any direct costs other than the purchase price, incurred by nonprofit organizations or public bodies in purchasing and assuming responsibility for the housing project.
(i)
Waiting list.
If funds for sales to nonprofit organizations and public bodies are limited, the Agency will add the funding requests to the waiting list for incentives and follow the process established in § 3560.657(b) and (c).
(j)
Withdrawal from sales process.
A borrower may withdraw the prepayment request at any time prior to the sale of the property. The borrower will be responsible for any damages associated with breaking a sales contract established with a nonprofit organization or public body.
(k)
When no offer to purchase is received.
Prepayment with no further restriction may be accepted by the Agency when the borrower agrees to offer the housing project for sale to a nonprofit organization or public body in accordance with § 3560.659 and no good faith offer is received within 180 days from the date that the housing project was advertised for sale to a nonprofit organization or public body, or a good faith offer was received within 180 days from the advertisement date but the offeror was unable to fulfill the terms of the offer within 24 months of the offer date, provided the owner cooperated with the potential purchaser.
[69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 65506, Nov. 4, 2008]
§ 3560.660
Acceptance of prepayments.
(a) When the Agency agrees to accept prepayment, the Agency will notify borrowers, in writing, of the conditions under which the Agency will accept prepayment including the specific restrictive-use provisions to which the borrower has agreed and the date by which the borrower must make the prepayment.
(1) Prepayment must be made 180 days from the date of the Agency's prepayment acceptance notice to the borrower.
(2) If the borrower's prepayment is not received within 180 days of the prepayment acceptance notice and the Agency has not agreed to an alternative date based on a written request from the borrower, the Agency may cancel the prepayment acceptance agreement.
(b) Tenants will be notified of the prepayment acceptance agreement in accordance with § 3560.654(c). If a prepayment is anticipated to result in increased net tenant contributions, displacements or involuntary relocations, the tenants, who are affected by such a circumstance, may request a Letter Of Priority Entitlement (LOPE) in accordance with § 3560.159(c). Tenants must request a LOPE within one year of the prepayment acceptance notice date.
(c) Owners will provide certification stating that they will meet state and local laws prior to prepayment acceptance.
§ 3560.661
Sale or transfers.
(a) If a sale or transfer is to take place in conjunction with the Agency incentive offer, the sale or transfer must comply with the processing provisions of subpart I of this part.
(b) If a proposed transferee is determined not to be eligible for the transfer and assumption, the borrower will be given an additional 45 days to find another transferee.
(c) In cases where the existing owner is in program non-compliance or default, the Agency may make an offer of
incentives contingent on the successful transfer of the housing to an acceptable purchaser. The Agency may offer a smaller incentive or no incentive if the borrower does not agree to transfer the project to an acceptable purchaser, or if the transfer does not take place.
§ 3560.662
Restrictive-use provisions and agreements.
All restrictions require Agency approval and must be in accordance with the following restrictions:
(a) The undersigned, and any successors in interest, agree to use the property (described herein) in compliance with 42 U.S.C. 1484 or 1485, whichever is applicable, and applicable regulations and the subsequent amendments, for the purpose of housing:
(1) Very low-, or low-income households when required by § 3560.658(a)(2), or
(2) Very low-, low-, or moderate-income households.
(b) The period of the restriction will be inserted in accordance with the following:
(1) 10 years if required by § 3560.658(a)(1);
(2) The last existing tenant (that occupied the property on the date of prepayment) voluntarily vacates if required by § 3560.658(b)(3);
(3) 30 years if required by § 3560.406(g);
(4) Remaining period of existing restrictive-use provisions and any agreed extension if required by § 3560.655 or § 3560.658 (b)(1);
(5) The remaining useful life of the housing and related facilities if required by § 3560.658(a)(2); and
(6) 20 years in all other cases.
(c) When required by § 3560.658(a)(1) or (a)(2), the undersigned agrees that at the end of the expiration of the period described in paragraph (b) of this section, the property will be offered for sale to a qualified nonprofit organization or public body, in accordance with previously cited statutes and regulations.
(d) The Agency and eligible tenants or applicants may enforce these restrictions.
(e) The undersigned also agrees to:
(1) To set rents, other charges, and conditions of occupancy in a manner to meet these restrictions;
(2) To post an Agency approved notice of this restriction for the tenants of the property;
(3) To adhere to applicable local, state, and Federal laws; and
(4) To obtain Agency concurrence for any rental procedures that deviate from those approved at the time of prepayment, prior to implementation.
(f) The undersigned will be released from these obligations before the termination period in paragraph (b) of this section only when the Agency determines that there is no longer a need for the housing or that financial assistance provided the residents of the housing will no longer be provided due to no fault, action or lack of action on the part of the borrower.
[69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 65506, Nov. 4, 2008]
§ 3560.663
Post-payment responsibilities for loans subject to continued restrictive-use provisions.
(a) If a borrower prepays a loan and the housing project remains subject to restrictive-use provisions, the requirements of this section apply after prepayment.
(b) Owners of prepaid housing projects will be responsible for ensuring that the restrictive-use provisions agreed to as a condition of prepayment are observed.
(c) Owners must maintain appropriate documentation to demonstrate compliance with the restrictive-use provisions and must make the documentation and the housing project site available for Federal Government inspection upon request.
(1) Owners must document rent increases in accordance with subpart G of this part.
(2) Owners must document tenant eligibility in accordance with § 3560.152.
(3) In an Agency approved format, owners must provide the agency with a signed and dated certification within 30 days of the beginning of each calendar year for the full period of the restrictive-use provisions establishing that the restrictive-use provisions are being met.
(d) Owners must observe Agency policies on tenant grievances as described in § 3560.160. The Agency may enforce
restrictive-use provisions through administrative and legal actions. Tenants may enforce the restrictive-use provisions by contacting the Agency or through legal action. The Agency will release the restrictive-use provisions when the Agency conditions have been met.
§§ 3560.664-3560.699
[Reserved]
§ 3560.700
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB control number 0575-0189. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 15 minutes to 18 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart O—Unauthorized Assistance
§ 3560.701
General.
(a) This subpart contains the policies for recapturing unauthorized assistance when the Agency determines that a borrower or tenant was ineligible for, or improperly used, assistance received from the Agency.
(b) The Agency may seek repayment of any unauthorized assistance provided to a borrower or tenant, plus the cost of collection, regardless of whether the unauthorized assistance was due to errors by the Agency, the borrower, or the tenant.
§ 3560.702
Unauthorized assistance sources and situations.
(a) Unauthorized assistance can be received by a borrower or tenant in the form of loans, grants, interest credit, rental assistance, or other assistance provided by the Agency including assistance received as a result of an incorrect interest rate being applied to an Agency loan. Agency officials may pursue identification and recapture of unauthorized assistance through any legal remedies available.
(b) Unauthorized assistance may result from situations such as:
(1) Assistance being provided to an ineligible borrower or tenant;
(2) Assistance to an eligible borrower or tenant being used for an unauthorized purpose;
(3) Assistance being obtained as a result of inaccurate, incomplete, or fraudulent information provided by a borrower or tenant; or
(4) Assistance being obtained as a result of errors by the Agency, borrower, or tenant.
§ 3560.703
Identification of unauthorized assistance.
(a) The Agency will use all available means to identify unauthorized assistance, including Agency monitoring activities, OIG reports, GAO reports, and reports from any source, if the information provided can be substantiated by the Agency.
(b) Borrowers have the primary responsibility for identifying repayment of unauthorized assistance received by tenants.
§ 3560.704
Unauthorized assistance determination notice.
(a) The Agency will notify borrowers, in writing, when a determination has been made that unauthorized assistance was received by the borrower. Borrowers will notify tenants, in writing, when a determination is made that unauthorized assistance was received by the tenant and will simultaneously send the Agency of copy of the written notice to the tenant.
(b) The unauthorized assistance determination notice is a preliminary notice, not a demand letter. The unauthorized assistance determination notice will:
(1) Specify the reasons the assistance was determined to be unauthorized;
(2) State the amount of unauthorized assistance to be repaid and specify the party responsible for repayment of the unauthorized assistance (
i.e.
, the tenant or borrower) according to the provision of § 3560.708;
(3) Establish a place and time when the person receiving the unauthorized assistance determination notice may
meet with the Agency or, in the case of tenants, may meet with the borrower, to discuss issues related to the unauthorized assistance notice such as the establishment of a repayment schedule; and
(4) Advise the borrower or tenant that they may present facts, figures, written records, or other information within a specified period of time which might alter the determination that the assistance received was unauthorized.
(c) Upon request, the Agency or borrower, in the case of tenants, will grant additional time for discussions related to an unauthorized assistance determination notice. Borrowers must notify the Agency of schedule revisions when additional time is granted to a tenant in unauthorized assistance claims.
§ 3560.705
Recapture of unauthorized assistance.
(a) The Agency will seek repayment of all unauthorized assistance received by a borrower or tenant, plus the cost of collection, to the fullest extent permitted by law. Agency efforts to collect unauthorized assistance may include offsets, the use of private or public collection agents, and any other remedies available. Agency findings related to unauthorized assistance determinations will be referred to credit reporting bureaus and other federal, state, or local agencies with jurisdictions related to the unauthorized assistance findings for suspension, debarment, civil or criminal action to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(b) If a borrower or tenant agrees to repay unauthorized assistance, the amount due will be the amount stated in the unauthorized assistance determination notice unless another amount has been approved by the Agency.
(c) Repayment may be made either with a lump sum payment or through payments made over a period of time. If a borrower or tenant agrees to repay unauthorized assistance, the borrower or tenant proposed repayment schedule must be approved by Agency prior to implementation. Agency approval of a repayment schedule will take into consideration the best interest of the borrower, the tenant, and the Federal Government.
(d) Borrowers must retain copies of all correspondence and a record of all conversations between the borrower and a tenant regarding unauthorized assistance received by a tenant.
(e) When a tenant, who has received unauthorized assistance due to tenant error or fraud as determined by the Agency, moves out of a housing project, the borrower is no longer responsible for recapturing the unauthorized assistance provided that the borrower notifies the Agency of the tenant's move and transfers all records related to the tenant's unauthorized assistance to the Agency within 30 days of the tenant's move. The Agency will pursue collection of the unauthorized assistance from the tenant.
(f) If a borrower refuses to enter into an unauthorized assistance repayment schedule with the Agency, the Agency will initiate liquidation procedures, in accordance with § 3560.456, or other enforcement actions, such as suspension, debarment, civil, or criminal penalties, in accordance with § 3560.461. If a tenant refuses to enter into an unauthorized assistance repayment schedule, the Agency will initiate recovery actions against the tenant.
(g) Borrowers may not use housing project funds to pay amounts due to the Agency as a result of unauthorized assistance due to borrower fraud.
§ 3560.706
Offsets.
Offsets and any other available remedies may be used by the Agency to recapture unauthorized assistance. Guidance concerning use of offsets can be found at 7 CFR 3550.210.
§ 3560.707
Program participation and corrective actions.
(a) With Agency approval, a borrower or tenant, who has received unauthorized assistance, may continue to participate in the project if they have the legal and financial capabilities to do so. Approval considerations for such forbearance and repayment are in § 3560.705.
(b) A borrower or tenant who was responsible for the circumstances causing the unauthorized assistance must take appropriate action to correct the
problem within 90 days of the unauthorized assistance determination notice date, unless an alternative date is agreed to by the Agency.
(c) When the interest rate shown in a debt instrument resulted in the receipt of unauthorized assistance, the debt instrument will be modified to the correct interest rate. All payments made by the borrower at the incorrect interest rate will be reapplied at the correct interest rate, and remaining payments due on the loan will be recalculated on the basis of the correct interest rate, plus any amounts due to the Agency as a result of the use of an incorrect interest rate, unless the Agency agrees to a separate repayment process.
§ 3560.708
Unauthorized assistance received by tenants.
(a) Tenant actions that require tenant repayment of unauthorized assistance received by tenants include, but are not limited to:
(1) Knowingly or mistakenly misrepresenting income, assets, adjustments to income, or household status to the borrower as required under subpart D of this part; or
(2) Failure to properly report changes in income, assets, adjustments to income, or household status to the borrower as required in subpart D of this part.
(b) Borrower actions that require borrower repayment of unauthorized assistance received by tenants include, but are not limited to:
(1) Incorrect determination of tenant income or household status by the borrower, resulting in rental assistance or interest credit that is not allowable under the provisions of subparts D, E, or F of this part, as applicable; or
(2) Assignment of rental assistance to a household that is ineligible under the requirements of subpart F of this part.
(c) When it is determined that a tenant has received unauthorized assistance, the borrower shall notify the tenant and the Agency through the procedure specified in § 3560.704.
(d) Borrowers may not charge tenants to pay amounts due to the Agency as a result of unauthorized assistance to tenants through borrower error.
(e) Borrowers must notify the Agency of all collections from tenants as repayments for unauthorized assistance and must remit or credit the amounts collected to applicable housing project accounts.
(f) When rental assistance was improperly assigned to a tenant, for any reason, the rental assistance benefit must be canceled and reassigned.
(1) Before a borrower notifies a tenant of rental assistance cancellation, the borrower must request Agency approval. If the Agency determines that the unauthorized rental assistance was received by the tenant due to borrower fraud or error, the borrower must give the tenant 30 days notice, in writing, that the unit was assigned in error and that the rental assistance benefit will be canceled effective on date that the next monthly rental payment is due after the end of the 30-day notice period.
(2) Tenants also must be notified, in writing, that they may cancel their lease without penalty at the time the rental assistance is canceled. Tenants must be offered an opportunity to meet with a borrower to discuss the rental assistance cancellation.
§ 3560.709
Demand letter.
(a) If a borrower fails to respond to an unauthorized assistance determination notice or fails to agree to a repayment schedule, the Agency will send the borrower a demand letter specifying:
(1) The amount of unauthorized assistance to be repaid and the basis for the unauthorized assistance determination; and
(2) The actions to be taken by the Agency if repayment is not made by a specified date.
(b) If a tenant fails to respond to the unauthorized assistance determination notice or fails to agree to a repayment schedule, the borrower will send the tenant a demand letter specifying:
(1) The amount of unauthorized assistance to be repaid and the basis for the unauthorized assistance determination;
(2) The actions to be taken if repayment is not made by a specified date, including termination of tenancy; and
(3) The appeal rights of the tenant as specified in § 3560.160.
(c) A demand letter may be sent to a borrower or tenant, in lieu of an unauthorized assistance determination notice, when the evidence documenting the unauthorized assistance determination is deemed to be conclusive by the Agency or borrower sending the letter.
§§ 3560.710-3560.749
[Reserved]
§ 3560.750
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB control number 0575-0189. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 15 minutes to 18 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart P—Appraisals
§ 3560.751
General.
This subpart sets forth appraisal policies for Agency-financed multi-family housing (MFH) projects consisting of five or more rental units. Agency-financed housing projects with fewer than five rental units may be appraised in accordance with the Agency's single family housing appraisal policies established under 7 CFR 3550.62.
§ 3560.752
Appraisal use, request, review, and release.
(a)
Appraisal uses.
The Agency will use appraisals to determine whether the security offered by an applicant or borrower is adequate to secure a loan or determine appropriate servicing or preservation decisions. Appraisals used for Agency decision-making must be current, unless the Agency and the applicant, or borrower, mutually agree to the use of an appraisal that is not current. A current appraisal is an appraisal with a report date that is not more than one year old.
(b)
Appraisal requests.
Appraisal requests must be in writing and must specify the client and other intended users, the intended use, the purpose, and the scope of work of the appraisal, including the type and definition of the value(s) to be developed.
(1)
Type of Value.
The appraisal request must indicate whether the “market value”, the “market value, subject to restricted rents”, or any other type of value of the housing project and related facilities is to be concluded.
(i) A request for “market value, subject to restricted rents” means the appraisal will take into consideration any rent limits, rent subsidies, expense abatements, or restrictive-use conditions that will affect the property as a result of an agreement with the Agency or any other financing source. Each type of financing involved, including, but not limited to, interest credit subsidy, low-interest loans from other sources, tax-exempt bond financing, tax credits, and grants, must be valued separately in the appraisal.
(ii) A request for “market value” means the appraisal will take into consideration the most probable price which a property should bring in a competitive and open market under all conditions requisite to a fair sale, the buyer and seller each acting prudently and knowledgeably, and assuming the price is not affected by undue stimulus. Implicit in this definition is the consummation of a sale as of a specified date and the passing of title from seller to buyer under conditions whereby:
(A) Buyer and seller are typically motivated;
(B) Both parties are well informed or well advised and acting in what they consider their best interests;
(C) A reasonable time is allowed for exposure in the open market;
(D) Payment is made in terms of cash in United States dollars or in terms of financial arrangements comparable thereto; and
(E) The price represents the normal consideration for the property sold unaffected by special or creative financing or sales concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale.
(2)
“ ‘As-is’ Value” or “Prospective Value”.
The appraisal request must indicate whether the “‘as-is’ value” or “prospective value” of the housing is to be concluded.
(i) “ ‘As-is’ value” means the value of the housing and related facilities as of the effective date of the appraisal. It relates to what physically exists and is legally permissible at the time of the appraisal and excludes all hypothetical conditions.
(ii) “Prospective value” means the forecasted value of the housing and related facilities as of a specified future date. For Agency appraisals, this date will typically be the projected completion date of proposed new construction or rehabilitation.
(3)
Section 8 project-based assistance.
Depending on the intended use of the appraisal, the Agency will specify whether or not section 8 project-based assistance will be considered in the valuation of the housing. The remaining term of the section 8 contract and the probability of subsequent renewal terms being authorized will be taken into consideration when making this determination.
(4)
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) and other financing sources.
Depending on the intended use of the appraisal, the Agency will specify whether or not tax credits and other financing sources involved in the housing will be considered in the valuation of the housing.
(c)
Appraisal review.
All MFH appraisals that were not written by an Agency appraiser will be reviewed by an Agency appraiser, who will write and file a technical review report that complies with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) and Agency requirements.
(d)
Release of appraisals.
MFH appraisals procured by the Agency will be released to owners/applicants, from their own files, upon their request.
§ 3560.753
Agency appraisal standards and requirements.
(a)
General.
The Agency recognizes USPAP as the basic standards for appraisals. Appraisals used by the Agency must comply with USPAP and this subpart.
(b)
Appraisers.
MFH appraisals prepared for the Agency will be written by Agency appraisers or independent fee appraisers who are state certified general appraisers, certified in the state where the property is located. Technical review reports will be written by Agency state certified general appraisers.
(c)
Appraisal report.
The appraisal report format may be a form appraisal or a narrative appraisal. The Agency will specify the appraisal format that is most appropriate for the scope of work involved when the appraisal is requested.
(1)
Form appraisal reports.
The Agency will accept appraisal report forms that meet generally accepted industry standards, comply with USPAP, and have been approved by the Agency.
(2)
Narrative appraisal reports.
Narrative appraisal reports must, at a minimum, contain the following items:
(i) Transmittal letter;
(ii) Factual information about the property;
(iii) Regional and neighborhood data;
(iv) Description of the subject property;
(v) Description of existing and planned improvements;
(vi) A highest and best use analysis;
(vii) A statement regarding any environmental issues, such as potential contamination of the property from hazardous substances, hazardous wastes, or petroleum products;
(viii) A cost approach analysis (if applicable);
(ix) A sales comparison approach analysis (if applicable);
(x) An income approach analysis (if applicable);
(xi) A reconciliation of the value indications derived from the included approaches to value; and
(xii) A signed and dated certification of value.
(3) At the time an appraisal is requested, the Agency will specify either a complete or a limited appraisal and one of the following types of appraisal reports, based upon the complexity of the appraisal assignment.
(i) A self-contained report that comprehensively describes all information significant to the solution of the appraisal problem;
(ii) A summary report that summarizes all information significant to the solution of the appraisal problem; or
(iii) A restricted use report, intended for Agency use only, that briefly states all information significant to the solution of the appraisal problem.
(d)
Highest and best use statement and analysis.
The highest and best use is to be concluded for the subject site as though it was vacant, and for the subject property as improved, if improvements have been made. If the highest and best use of a subject property is for something other than MFH, the appraisal report must provide this information to the Agency for consideration in the loan process. In addition to being reasonably probable and appropriately supported, the highest and best use of both the land as though vacant and the property as improved must meet four implicit criteria. The highest and best use must be:
(1) Physically possible;
(2) Legally permissible;
(3) Financially feasible; and
(4) Maximally productive.
(e)
Valuation methods and variances.
The final opinion of value presented in an appraisal report must have considered a cost approach, a sales comparison approach, and an income approach. If one of these standard approaches is not used, the reconciliation narrative will provide a full and complete explanation of the reasons the approach was excluded. The reconciliation will fully discuss and reconcile variances in the value indications concluded by each approach.
(f)
Real estate history.
Appraisals must contain a 5-year ownership and sales history for the housing project being appraised.
(g)
Reserve accounts.
Funds in the housing project's reserve account will not be considered in the valuation of the housing project.
(h)
Escrow accounts.
Short-term prepaid escrow accounts for general operating expenses, such as taxes and insurance, shall not be considered in the valuation of the housing project.
(i)
Rental rates comparison.
The appraisal report must document whether the housing project's basic rents are less than, equal to, or greater than market rents for comparable conventional, or non-subsidized, units in the area where the housing is located.
(j)
Description of housing and property rights.
The appraisal report must identify and describe both the real estate, which is the land and improvements, and the real property, or property rights, being appraised.
(k)
Exclusion of rental units from valuation.
The Agency will provide appraisers with instructions and supporting information on any rental units that do not produce rental income at the time of the appraisal.
(l)
Non-contiguous sites.
When a housing project has real property located on non-contiguous sites, a separate appraisal must be developed for each site.
§§ 3560.754-3560.799
[Reserved]
§ 3560.800
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB control number 0575-0189. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 15 minutes to 18 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
Subpart Q [Reserved]

# Subpart R—Credit Report Requirements

# Source:
89 FR 106980, Dec. 31, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106980, Dec. 31, 2024, Subpart R was added, effective Jan. 30, 2025.
§ 3560.851
General.
This subpart contains the Agency's credit reporting requirements for all Multifamily (MFH) programs.
§ 3560.852
Requirements.
When required to submit a credit report under any provision of this part, such submission must include a current comprehensive credit report for both the entity and the individual principals, partners, members, and the individual sub-entities or natural persons who are responsible for controlling the ownership and operations of the applicant entity, including but not limited to, principals, partners, or members. The Agency will also accept combination comprehensive credit reports which provides a comprehensive view of the applicant's credit profile by combining data from all three major credit bureaus (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion).
Pt. 3565

# PART 3565—GUARANTEED RURAL RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
3565.1
Purpose.
3565.2
Applicability and authority.
3565.3
Definitions.
3565.4
Availability of assistance.
3565.5
Ranking and selection criteria.
3565.6
Inclusion of tax-exempt debt.
3565.7
Environmental review requirements.
3565.8
Civil rights compliance.
3565.9
Compliance with federal requirements.
3565.10
Conflict of interest.
3565.11-3565.12
[Reserved]
3565.13
Exception authority.
3565.14
Review and appeals.
3565.15
Oversight and monitoring.
3565.16
[Reserved]
3565.17
Demonstration programs.
3565.18-3565.49
[Reserved]
3565.50
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Guarantee Requirements
3565.51
Eligible loans and advances.
3565.52
Conditions of guarantee.
3565.53
Guarantee fees.
3565.54
Transferability of the guarantee.
3565.55
Participation loans.
3565.56
Suspension or termination of loan guarantee agreement.
3565.57
Modification, extension, reinstatement of loan guarantee.
3565.58-3565.99
[Reserved]
3565.100
OMB control number.

# Subpart C—Lender Requirements
3565.101
Responsibility of lenders.
3565.102
Lender eligibility.
3565.103
Approval requirements.
3565.104
Application requirements.
3565.105
Lender compliance.
3565.106
Construction lender requirements.
3565.107
[Reserved]
3565.108
Responsibility for actions of agents and mortgage brokers.
3565.109
Minimum loan prohibition.
3565.110
Insolvency of lender.
3565.111
Lobbying activities.
3565.112-3565.149
[Reserved]
3565.150
OMB control number.

# Subpart D—Borrower Eligibility Requirements
3565.151
Eligible borrowers.
3565.152
Control of land.
3565.153
Experience and capacity of borrower.
3565.154
Previous participation in state and federal programs.
3565.155
Identity of interest.
3565.156
Certification of compliance with federal, state, and local laws and with Agency requirements.
3565.157-3565.199
[Reserved]
3565.200
OMB control number.

# Subpart E—Loan Requirements
3565.201
General.
3565.202
Tenant eligibility.
3565.203
Restrictions on rents.
3565.204
Maximum loan amount.
3565.205
Eligible uses of loan proceeds.
3565.206
Ineligible uses of loan proceeds.
3565.207
Form of lien.
3565.208
Maximum loan term.
3565.209
Loan amortization.
3565.210
Maximum interest rate.
3565.211
Interest credit.
3565.212
Multiple guaranteed loans.
3565.213
Geographic distribution.
3565.214
[Reserved]
3565.215
Special conditions.
3565.216-3565.249
[Reserved]
3565.250
OMB control number.

# Subpart F—Property Requirements
3565.251
Eligible property.
3565.252
Housing types.
3565.253
Form of ownership.
3565.254
Property standards.
3565.255
Environmental review requirements.
3565.256
Architectural services.
3565.257
Procurement actions.
3565.258-3565.299
[Reserved]
3565.300
OMB control number.

# Subpart G—Processing Requirements
3565.301
Loan standards.
3565.302
Allowable fees.
3565.303
Issuance of loan guarantee.
3565.304
Lender loan processing responsibilities.
3565.305
Mortgage and closing requirements.
3565.306-3565.349
[Reserved]
3565.350
OMB control number.

# Subpart H—Project Management
3565.351
Project management.
3565.352
Preservation of affordable housing.
3565.353
Affirmative fair housing marketing.
3565.354
Fair housing accommodations.
3565.355
Changes in ownership.
3565.356-3565.399
[Reserved]
3565.400
OMB control number.

# Subpart I—Servicing Requirements
3565.401
Servicing objectives.
3565.402
Servicing responsibilities.
3565.403
Special servicing.
3565.404
Transfer of loans or mortgage servicing.
3565.405
Repurchase of guaranteed loans.
3565.406-3565.449
[Reserved]
3565.450
OMB control number.

# Subpart J—Assignment, Conveyance, and Claims
3565.451
Preclaim requirements.
3565.452
Decision to liquidate.
3565.453
Disposition of the property.
3565.454
[Reserved]
3565.455
Alternative disposition methods.
3565.456
Filing a claim.
3565.457
Determination of claim amount.
3565.458
Withdrawal of claim.
3565.459-3565.499
[Reserved]
3565.500
OMB control number.

# Subpart K—Agency Guaranteed Loans That Back Ginnie Mae Guaranteed Securities
3565.501
Applicability.
3565.502
Incontestability.
3565.503
Repurchase.
3565.504
Transfers.
3565.505
Liability.
3565.506-3565.549
[Reserved]
3565.550
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480.

# Source:
63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 3565.1
Purpose.
The purpose of the Guaranteed Rural Rental Housing Program (GRRHP) is to increase the supply of affordable rural rental housing, through the use of loan guarantees that encourage partnerships between the Rural Housing Service, private lenders and public agencies.
§ 3565.2
Applicability and authority.
The regulation prescribes the policies, authorizations, and procedures for the guarantee of multifamily loans under section 538 of the Housing Act of 1949.
§ 3565.3
Definitions.
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Rural Housing Service, or his or her designee.
Agency.
The Rural Housing Service, or a successor agency.
Allowable claim amount.
The total losses incurred by the lender, as calculated pursuant to subpart J of this part.
Applicable Federal Rate (AFR).
The interest rate set by the federal government for federal financing programs pursuant to section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Approved lender.
An eligible lender who has been authorized by the Agency to originate and service guaranteed multifamily loans under the program.
Assignment.
The delivery by a lender to the Agency of the note and any other security instruments securing the guaranteed loan; and any and all liens, interest, or claims the lender may have against the borrower.
Assistance.
Financial assistance in the form of a loan guarantee or interest credit received from the Agency.
Borrower.
The individuals or entities responsible for repaying the loans.
Claim.
The presentation to the Agency of a demand for payment for losses incurred on a loan guaranteed under the program.
Conditional commitment.
The written commitment by the Agency to guarantee a loan subject to the stated terms and conditions.
Construction and permanent loan.
A loan which provides advances during the construction period and remains in place as a permanent loan at the completion of construction.
Construction contingency reserve.
A cash reserve of at least two percent of the construction contract, inclusive of the contractor's fee and all hard and soft costs that must be set up and fully
funded by the closing of the construction loan. This reserve will be held by the lender, and funds will only be disbursed for change order requests approved by the Agency and the lender. Unused funds from the construction contingency reserve will be held in the operating and maintenance reserve and cannot be released to the borrower until the project reaches an occupancy of 90% for 90 consecutive days. In addition the reserve accounts established in the conditional commitment must be fully funded prior to the release of the construction contingency reserve. These requirements remain in effect regardless of whether the lender has established a lease-up reserve in lieu of the occupancy requirement.
Correspondent relationship.
A contractual relationship between an approved lender and a non-approved lender or mortgage broker in which the correspondent performs certain origination, underwriting or servicing functions for the approved lender.
Default.
Failure by a borrower to meet any obligation or term of a loan, grant, or regulatory agreement, or any program requirement.
Delinquency.
Failure to make a timely payment under the terms of the promissory note or regulatory agreement.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
A federal agency which may be a partner in some of the Agency guarantees.
Due diligence.
The process of evaluating real estate in the context of a real estate transaction for the presence of contamination from release of hazardous substances, petroleum products, or other environmental hazards and determining what effect, if any, the contamination has on the regulatory status or security value of the property.
Eligible borrower.
A borrower who meets the requirements of subpart D of this part.
Eligible lender.
A lender who meets the requirements of subpart C of this part or any successor regulation.
Eligible loan.
A loan that meets the requirements of subpart E of this part or any successor regulation.
Eligible rural area.
An eligible rural area is an area which meets the requirements of part 3550 of this chapter or any successor regulation.
Fannie Mae.
A Federally chartered, publicly owned enterprise created by Congress to purchase, sell or otherwise facilitate the purchase or sale of mortgages in the secondary mortgage market.
Federal Home Loan Bank System.
A system of member savings and loans, banks and other lenders whose primary business is the making of housing loans.
Final claim payment.
The amount due to the lender (or the Agency) after disposition of the collateral is complete and the proceeds from liquidation, as well as any other claim payments, are applied against the allowable claim amount.
Foreclosure.
The process by which the ownership interest of a borrower in a mortgaged property is extinguished and the security is liquidated with the proceeds applied to the loan.
Freddie Mac.
A Federally chartered, publicly owned enterprise created to purchase, sell or otherwise facilitate the purchase or sale of mortgages in the secondary mortgage market.
Ginnie Mae.
Ginnie Mae is a reference to the Government National Mortgage Association.
Government National Mortgage Association.
The Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) is a government corporation within the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Ginnie Mae guarantees privately issued securities backed by mortgages or loans which are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), or the Rural Housing Service (RHS) and certain other loans or mortgages guaranteed or insured by the Government.
GRRHP.
Guaranteed Rural Rental Housing Program.
Guarantee fees.
The fees paid by the lender to the Agency for the loan guarantee.
(1) An initial guarantee fee is due at the time the guarantee is issued.
(2) An annual guarantee fee is due at the beginning of each year that the guarantee remains in effect.
Guaranteed loan.
Any loan for which the Agency provides a loan guarantee.
Holder.
A person or entity, other than the lender, who owns all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan with no servicing responsibilities. When the single note option is used and the lender assigns a part or all of the guaranteed note to an assignee, the assignee becomes a Holder only when the Agency receives notice and the transaction is completed through use of an assignment guarantee agreement form approved by the Agency.
Housing Finance Agency (HFA).
A state or local government instrumentality authorized to issue housing bonds or otherwise provide financing for housing. Identity of interest. With respect to a project, an actual or apparent financial interest of any type, that exists or will exist among the borrower, contractor, lender, syndicator, management agent, suppliers of materials or services, including professional services, or vendors (including servicing and property disposal), in any combination of relationships which may result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest
Income eligibility.
A determination that the income of a tenant at initial occupancy does not exceed 115 percent of the area median income as such area median income is defined by HUD or a successor agency.
Indian tribe.
Any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation, as defined by or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
); or any entity established by the governing body of an Indian tribe, as described in this definition, for the purpose of financing economic development.
Interest credit.
A subsidy available to eligible borrowers that reduces the effective interest rate of the loan to the Applicable Long Term Monthly AFR.
Land lease.
A written agreement between a landowner and a borrower for the possession and use of real property for a specified period of time.
Lease.
A contract containing the rights and obligations of a tenant or cooperative member and a borrower, including the amount of the monthly occupancy charge and other terms under which the tenant will occupy the housing.
Lease-up period.
The period of time that begins when the first unit in the project receives a certificate of occupancy until the time that occupancy of 90% of the units for a minimum of 90 consecutive days is achieved.
Lease-up reserve.
A cash deposit which is available to a property to help pay operating costs and debt service at the initiation of operations while units are being leased to their initial occupants.
Lender.
A bank or other financial institution, including a housing finance agency, that originates or services the guaranteed loan.
Lender agreement.
The written agreement between the Agency and the lender containing the requirements the lender must meet on a continuing basis to participate in the program.
Loan.
A mechanism by which a lender funds the acquisition and development of a multifamily project. A loan in this context is secured by a mortgage executed by the lender and borrower.
Loan guarantee.
A pledge to pay part of the loss incurred by a lender in the event of default by the borrower.
Loan guarantee agreement.
The written agreement between the Agency and the lender containing the terms and conditions of the guarantee with respect to an individual loan.
Loan participation.
A loan made by more than one lender wherein each lender funds an individual portion of the loan.
Loan-to-cost ratio.
The amount of the loan divided by the total cost to develop the project.
Loan-to-value ratio.
The amount of the loan divided by the appraised market value of the project.
Maximum guarantee payment.
The maximum payment by the Agency under the guarantee agreement computed by applying the guarantee percentage times the allowable claim
amount, but not to exceed original principal amount.
Mortgage.
A written instrument evidencing or creating a lien against real property for the purpose of providing collateral to secure the repayment of a loan. For program purposes, this may include a deed of trust or any similar document.
Multifamily project.
A project designed with five or more living units.
Negligent servicing or origination.
Negligent servicing or origination is a failure to perform those services which a reasonably prudent lender would perform in servicing or originating its own portfolio and includes not only the failure to act but also the failure to act in a timely manner.
Non-monetary default.
A default that does not involve the payment of money.
Note.
Any note, bond, assumption agreement, or other evidence of indebtedness pertaining to a guaranteed loan.
Office of Inspector General (OIG).
The agency of USDA established under the Inspector General Act.
Operating and maintenance reserve.
A cash reserve required of all projects of at least two percent of the loan amount held by the lender that is used for the up-keep of the project.
Payment effective date.
For the month payment is due, the day of the month on which payment will be effectively applied to the account by the lender, regardless of the date payment is received.
Permanent loan.
A permanent loan is defined as a mortgage loan usually covering development costs, interim loans, construction loans, financing expenses, marketing, administrative, legal, and other Agency approved costs. This loan differs from the construction loan in that financing goes into place after the project is completely constructed and open for occupancy. It is a long-term obligation, generally for a period of no less than 25 years and no more than 40 years.
Prepayment.
The payment of the outstanding balance on a loan prior to the note's maturity date.
Project.
The total number of rental housing units and related facilities subject to a guaranteed loan that are operated under one management plan and one Regulatory Agreement.
Program requirements.
Any requirements contained in any loan document, guarantee agreement, statute, regulation, handbook, or administrative notice.
Promissory note.
See “Note”.
Qualified alien.
For the purposes of this part, qualified alien refers to any person lawfully admitted into the country who meets the criteria of 42 U.S.C. 1436a.
Real estate owned.
Denotes real estate that has been acquired by the lender or the Agency (often known as “inventory property”).
Recourse.
The lender's right to seek satisfaction from the borrower's personal financial resources or other resources for monetary default.
Regulatory agreement.
The agreement that establishes the relationship among the Agency, the lender, and the borrower; and contains the borrower's responsibilities with respect to all aspects of the management and operation of the project.
RHS.
The Rural Housing Service within the Rural Development mission area, or a successor agency, which administers section 538 guarantees.
Rural area.
A geographic area as defined in section 520 of the Housing Act of 1949.
Rural Development.
A mission area within USDA which includes RHS, Rural Utilities Service, and Rural Business-Cooperative Service.
Servicing.
The broad scope of activities undertaken to manage the performance of a loan throughout its term and to assure compliance with the program requirements.
Single asset ownership.
A borrower who owns only one project.
Surplus cash.
The borrower's remaining funds at the project's fiscal year end, after making all required payments, excluding required reserves and escrows.
Tenant.
The individual that holds the right to occupy a unit in accordance with the terms of a lease executed with the project owner.
U.S. citizen.
An individual who resides as a citizen in any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marinas, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, or the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
USDA.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 16970, Apr. 9, 2002; 70 FR 2930, Jan. 19, 2005; 76 FR 3, Jan. 3, 2011; 84 FR 55035, Oct. 15, 2019]
§ 3565.4
Availability of assistance.
The Agency's authority to enter into commitments, guarantee loans, or provide interest credits is limited to the extent that appropriations are available to cover the cost of the assistance. The Agency will notify the public of the availability of assistance, changes in application requirements, or changes in the fee structure.
[84 FR 55035, Oct. 15, 2019]
§ 3565.5
Ranking and selection criteria.
(a)
Threshold criteria.
Applications for loan guarantee submitted by lenders must include a loan request for a project that meets all of the following threshold criteria:
(1) The project must involve an owner and a development team with qualifications and experience sufficient to carry out development, management, and ownership responsibilities, and the owner and development team must not be under investigation or suspension from any government programs;
(2) The project must involve the financing of a property located in an eligible rural area;
(3) Demonstrate a readiness, for the project to proceed, including submission of a complete application for a loan guarantee and evidence of financing;
(4) Demonstrate market and financial feasibility; and
(5) Include evidence that the credit risk is reasonable, taking into account conventional lending practices, and factors related to concentration of risk in a given market and with a given borrower.
(b)
Priority projects.
Priority will be given to projects in rural areas in which borrowers can best utilize and where loan guarantees are needed the most, as determined by the Agency based on information the Secretary considers appropriate. In addition, the Agency may, at its sole discretion, set aside assistance for or rank projects that meet important program goals. Assistance will include both loan guarantees and interest credits. Priority projects must compete for set-aside funds. The Agency will announce the priority criteria in an announcement in the
Federal Register
.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 32371, June 16, 1999; 84 FR 55036, Oct. 15, 2019; 89 FR 19499, Mar. 19, 2024]
§ 3565.6
Inclusion of tax-exempt debt.
Tax-exempt financing can be used a source of capital for the guaranteed loan.
[64 FR 32371, June 16, 1999]
§ 3565.7
Environmental review requirements.
The Agency will take into account potential environmental impacts of proposed projects by working with applicants, other federal agencies, Indian tribes, State and local governments, and interested citizens and organizations in order to formulate actions that advance the program goals in a manner that will protect, enhance, and restore environmental quality. Actions taken under this part must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
[81 FR 11050, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 3565.8
Civil rights compliance.
(a) All actions taken by the Agency, or on behalf of the Agency, by a lender will be conducted without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age, income from public assistance or having exercised their right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, and in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA).
(b) Any action related to the sale, rental or advertising of dwellings; in the provision of brokerage services; or in making available residential real estate transactions involving Agency assistance, must be in accordance with
the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicap. It is unlawful for a lender or borrower participating in the program to:
(1) Refuse to make accommodations in rules, policies, practices, or services if such accommodations are necessary to provide a person with a disability an opportunity to use or continue to use a dwelling unit and all public and common use areas; and
(2) Refuse to allow an individual with a disability to make reasonable modifications to a unit at his or her expense, if such modifications may be necessary to afford the individual full enjoyment of the unit.
(c) Any resident or prospective resident seeking occupancy or use of a unit, property or related facility for which a loan guarantee has been provided, and who believes that he or she is being discriminated against may file a complaint with the lender, the Agency or the Department of Housing and Urban Development. A written complaint should be sent to the Secretary of Agriculture or of the Department of Housing and Urban Development in Washington, DC.
(d) Lenders and borrowers that fail to comply with the requirements of title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended (the Fair Housing Act), are liable for those sanctions authorized by law.
(e) For guaranteed loans with “interest credit,” the following additional civil rights laws will apply and be enforced by the agency delivering this guarantee program: title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act, Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972.
(f) In accordance with title VI, borrowers will be subjected to compliance reviews for projects that receive interest credit.
[64 FR 32371, June 16, 1999]
§ 3565.9
Compliance with federal requirements.
The Agency and the lender are responsible for ensuring that the application is in compliance with all applicable federal requirements, including the following specific statutory requirements:
(a)
Intergovernmental review.
7 CFR part 3015, subpart V, “Intergovernmental Review of Department of Agriculture Programs and Activities”, or successor regulation, including the Agency supplemental administrative instruction, RD Instruction 1970-I, ‘Intergovernmental Review,’ available in any Agency office or on the Agency's Web site.
(b)
National flood insurance.
The National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973; the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994; and 7 CFR part 1806, subpart B, or successor regulation.
(c)
Clean Air Act and Water Pollution Control Act Requirements.
For any contract, all applicable standards, orders or requirements issued under section 306 of the Clean Air Act; section 508 of the Clean Water Act; Executive Order 11738; and EPA regulations at part 32, of title 40.
(d)
Historic preservation requirements.
The provisions of 7 CFR part 1901, subpart F or successor regulation.
(e)
Lead-based paint requirements.
The provisions of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A, or successor regulation.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 32372, June 16, 1999; 76 FR 80731, Dec. 27, 2011]
§ 3565.10
Conflict of interest.
(a)
Objective.
It is the objective within the Rural Development mission area to maintain the highest standards of honesty, integrity, and impartiality by employees.
(b)
Rural Development requirement.
To reduce the potential for employee conflict of interest, all Rural Development activities will be conducted in accordance with 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D, or successor regulation by Rural Development employees who:
(1) Are not themselves a beneficiary;
(2) Are not family members or known relatives of any beneficiary; and
(3) Do not have any business or personal relationship with any beneficiary or any employee of a beneficiary.
(c)
Rural Development employee responsibility.
Rural Development employees
must disclose any known relationship or association with a lender or borrower or their agents, regardless of whether the relationship or association is known to others. Rural Development employees or members of their families may not purchase a Real Estate Owned property, security property from a borrower, or security property at a foreclosure sale.
(d)
Loan closing agent responsibility.
Loan closing agents (or members of their families) who have been involved with a particular property are precluded from purchasing such properties.
(e)
Lender and borrower responsibility.
Lenders, borrowers, and their agents must identify any known relationship or association with a Rural Development employee.
§§ 3565.11-3565.12
[Reserved]
§ 3565.13
Exception authority.
An Agency official may request and the Administrator or designee may make an exception to any requirement or provision, or address any omission of this part, if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision, or failure to take action, would adversely affect the government's interest or the program objectives, and provided that such an exception is not inconsistent with any applicable law or statutory requirement.
[64 FR 32372, June 16, 1999]
§ 3565.14
Review and appeals.
Whenever RHS makes a decision that is adverse to a lender or a borrower, RHS will provide written notice of such adverse decision and of the right to a USDA National Appeals Division hearing in accordance with 7 CFR part 11 or successor regulations. The lender or borrower may request an informal review with the decision maker and the use of available alternative dispute resolution or mediation programs as a means of resolution of the adverse decision. Any adverse decision, whether appealable or non-appealable may also be reviewed by the next level RHS supervisor. Adverse decisions affecting project tenants or applicants for tenancy will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 1944, subpart L or successor regulations.
§ 3565.15
Oversight and monitoring.
The lender, borrower, and all parties involved in any manner with any guarantee under this program must cooperate fully with all oversight and monitoring efforts of the Agency, Office of Inspector General, the U.S. General Accounting Office, and the U.S. Department of Justice or their representatives including making available any records concerning this transaction. This includes the annual eligibility audit and any other oversight or monitoring activities. If the Agency implements a requirement for an electronic transfer of information, the lender and borrower must cooperate fully.
§ 3565.16
[Reserved]
§ 3565.17
Demonstration programs.
To test ways to expand the availability or enhance the effectiveness of the guarantee program, or for similar purposes, the Agency may, from time to time, propose demonstration programs that use loan guarantees or interest credit. Toward this end, the Agency may enter into special partnerships with lenders, financial intermediaries, or others to carry out one or more elements of a demonstration program. Demonstration programs will be publicized by notices in the
Federal Register.
§§ 3565.18-3565.49
[Reserved]
§ 3565.50
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart B—Guarantee Requirements
§ 3565.51
Eligible loans and advances.
Upon approval of an application from an eligible or approved lender, the Agency will commit to providing a guarantee for a permanent loan or a
construction and permanent loan, subject to the availability of funds.
[76 FR 3, Jan. 3, 2011]
§ 3565.52
Conditions of guarantee.
A loan guarantee under this part will be evidenced by a Loan Note Guarantee issued by the Agency. Each lender will execute a Lender's Agreement. If a valid Lender's Agreement already exists, it is not necessary to execute a new Lender's Agreement with each loan guarantee.
(a)
Rights and liabilities.
A guarantee under this part is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States and is incontestable except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the lender had knowledge at the time the lender acquired the guarantee or assigned the loan, or in which a lender participates or condones. The guarantee will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent any loss is occasioned by a violation of usury laws, negligent servicing or origination by the lender, including a failure to acquire required security, or as a result of a use of loan funds for purposes other than those authorized by the Agency. The acts in the previous sentence constitute grounds for the refusal to make full payment under the guarantee to the lender, and will not be taken until the Agency gives the lender notice of the acts or omissions that it considers to constitute such grounds, specifying the applicable provisions of the Statute, Regulations, Loan Note Guarantee, or Lender's Agreement; the lender has not cured the acts or omissions within 90 calendar days after such notice; and the acts or omissions can reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the guaranteed mortgage or the physical condition of the property securing the guaranteed mortgage. If such acts or omissions cannot be cured within a 90 calendar day period, the 90 calendar day cure period automatically shall be extended so long as curative activities are commenced during the 90 calendar day period. At no time shall the curative period extend more than 270 calendar days from the expiration of the original 90 calendar day cure period. When a guaranteed portion of a loan is sold to a Holder, the Holder shall succeed to all rights of the lender under the Loan Note Guarantee to the extent of the portion purchased. The lender will remain bound to all obligations under the Loan Note Guarantee, Lender's Agreement, and the Agency program regulations.
(b)
Liability of the Holder.
The Holder shall not be liable for the actions of the lender including, but not limited to, negligence, fraud, abuse, misrepresentation or misuse of funds, and its rights under the guarantee shall be fully enforceable notwithstanding the actions of the lender, unless the Holder has knowledge of fraud, misrepresentation or misuse of funds when it becomes the Holder or condones or participates in such actions.
(c)
Types of guarantees.
The Agency may provide a lesser guarantee based upon its evaluation of the credit quality of the loan. Penalties incurred as a result of default are not covered by the guarantee. The Agency liability under any guarantee will decrease or increase, in proportion to any increase or decrease in the amount of the unpaid portion of the loan, up to the maximum amount specified in the Loan Note Guarantee. The Agency will not guarantee construction loans only. The Agency offers the following types of guarantees:
(1)
Option One.
The Agency may guarantee permanent loans subject to the conditions specified in § 3565.303(d). The maximum guarantee for a permanent loan will be 90 percent [unless the Agency establishes a different percent and announces this different percent through a Notice in the
Federal Register
] of the unpaid principal and interest up to default and accrued interest 90 calendar days from the date the liquidation plan is approved by the Agency, as defined in § 3565.452.
(2)
Option Two.
The Agency may provide a guarantee which will cover construction loan advances (advances) during construction. The maximum guarantee of construction advances related to a construction and permanent loan will not at any time exceed the lesser of 90 percent [or the percent established by the Agency and announced through a Notice in the
Federal Register
] of the amount of principal and accrued interest up to default for
amounts which exceed the original advance if for eligible uses of loan proceeds or 90 percent of the original principal amount and accrued interest up to default of the loan. The Agency's guarantee will cover losses to the extent aforementioned once all sureties/insurances and/or performance and payment bonds have fully performed their contractual obligations. A construction contingency reserve is required. This guarantee will be enforceable during the construction period but will cease to be enforceable once construction is completed unless and until the requirements for the continuation of the guarantee contained in the Conditional Commitment and this part are completed and approved by the Agency by the date stated in the Conditional Commitment and any Agency approved extension(s). The Agency will provide written confirmation to the lender when all of the requirements for continuation of the guarantee to cover the permanent loan have been satisfied. Any losses sustained while the guarantee is unenforceable (after the end of the construction period and, if applicable, before the continuation of the guarantee) are not covered by the guarantee. For purposes of this guarantee, the construction period will end on the earlier of:
(i) Twenty-four months from the closing of the construction loan, if the certificates of occupancy for all units in the project have not been issued by then, or
(ii) The date of the issuance of the last certificate of occupancy, if the certificates of occupancy for all units in the project are issued on or before 24 months from the closing of the construction loan.
(3)
Option Three.
The Agency may provide a single, continuous guarantee for construction and permanent loans. Only projects that have low loan-to-cost ratios, which will be defined by the Agency in a Notice published periodically in the
Federal Register,
are eligible for this type of guarantee. A construction contingency reserve is required. The Agency may require that a lease-up reserve, in an amount established by the Agency and announced through a Notice in the
Federal Register,
be set-aside prior to closing the construction loan. This lease-up reserve is an additional amount, over and above the required initial operating and maintenance contribution. The maximum guarantee of construction advances will not at any time exceed the lesser of 90 percent [or the percent established by the Agency and announced through a Notice in the
Federal Register
] of the amount of principal and interest up to default advanced for eligible uses of loan proceeds or 90 percent of the original principal amount and interest up to default.
(d)
Maximum loss payment.
The maximum loss payment to a lender or holder is as follows:
(1) To any holder, 100 percent of any loss sustained by the holder on the guaranteed portion of the loan and on interest due on such portion.
(2) To the lender, the lesser of:
(i) Any loss sustained by the lender on the guaranteed portion, including principal and up to 90 days of accrued interest as evidenced by the notes or assumption agreements and secured advances for protection and preservation of collateral made with the Agency's authorization; or
(ii) The guaranteed principal advanced to or assumed by the borrower and any interest and accrued interest up to 90 days due thereon.
(e)
Funding of reserves.
For each Option under paragraph (c) of this section, the lender must require an operating and maintenance reserve and provide the Agency adequate evidence of the funding of all required reserves.
(1) For Option 1 under paragraph (c) of this section, the funding schedule for the lease-up reserve and the operating and maintenance reserve must be included in the Agency-approved construction budget and be fully funded before the issuance of the permanent guarantee.
(2) For Option 2 under paragraph (c) of this section, the funding schedule for the lease-up reserve and the operating and maintenance reserve must be included in the Agency-approved construction budget and be fully funded before the issuance of the permanent guarantee.
(3) For Option 3 under paragraph (c) of this section, the operating and maintenance reserve must be fully funded before the issuance of the guarantee. The lease-up reserve must be funded 30 days before the first Certificate of Occupancy is anticipated.
[70 FR 2930, Jan. 19, 2005, as amended at 76 FR 3, Jan. 3, 2011]
§ 3565.53
Guarantee fees.
As a condition of receiving a loan guarantee, the Agency will charge the following guarantee fees to the lender. Changes to the initial and annual guarantee fees will be established by the Agency and will be published in a notice in the
Federal Register.
(a)
Initial guarantee fee.
The Agency will establish and charge an initial guarantee fee of up to one percent of the guarantee amount. For purposes of calculating this fee, the guarantee amount is the product of the percentage of the guarantee times the initial principal amount of the guaranteed loan.
(b)
Annual guarantee fee.
An annual guarantee fee will be charged, as established by the Agency, each year or portion of a year that the guarantee is in effect. This fee is due no later than February 28, of each calendar year.
(c)
Surcharge for guarantees on construction advances.
The Agency may, at its sole discretion, charge an additional fee on the portion of the loan advanced during construction. If applicable, this fee will be charged in advance at the start of construction.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 32372, June 16, 1999; 73 FR 11812, Mar. 5, 2008; 84 FR 55036, Oct. 15, 2019; 85 FR 77986, Dec. 3, 2020]
§ 3565.54
Transferability of the guarantee.
A lender must receive the Agency's approval prior to any sale or transfer of the loan guarantee.
§ 3565.55
Participation loans.
Loans involving multiple lenders are eligible for a guarantee when one of the lenders is an approved lender and agrees to act as the lead lender with responsibility for the loan under the loan guarantee agreement.
§ 3565.56
Suspension or termination of loan guarantee agreement.
A guarantee agreement will terminate when one of the following actions occurs: (In accordance with subpart H of this part, use restrictions on the property will remain if the following actions take place prior to the term of the loan and RHS determines the restrictions apply.)
(a)
Voluntary termination.
A lender and borrower voluntarily request the termination of the loan guarantee.
(b)
Agency withdrawal of guarantee.
The Agency withdraws the loan guarantee in the event of fraud, misrepresentation, abuse, negligence, or failure to meet the program requirements.
(c)
Mortgage pay-off.
The loan is paid.
(d)
Settlement of claim.
Final settlement of the claim.
§ 3565.57
Modification, extension, reinstatement of loan guarantee.
To protect its interest or further the objectives of the program, the Agency may, at its sole discretion, modify, extend, or reinstate a loan guarantee. In making this decision the Agency will consider potential losses under the program, impact on the tenants and the public reaction that may be received regarding the action. Further, the Agency may authorize a guarantee on a new loan that is originated as a part of a workout agreement.
§§ 3565.58-3565.99
[Reserved]
§ 3565.100
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart C—Lender Requirements
§ 3565.101
Responsibility of lenders.
A participating lender must originate and service a guaranteed loan in accordance with the regulation and program requirements throughout the life of a loan or guarantee, whichever is less. When it is in the best interests of the Agency, the Agency may permit
the transfer of servicing from the originating lender to a servicer.
§ 3565.102
Lender eligibility.
An eligible lender must be a licensed business entity or HFA in good standing in the state or states where it conducts business; be approved by the Agency; and meet at least one of the criteria contained below. Lenders who are not eligible may participate in the program if they maintain a correspondent relationship with a lender who is eligible. An eligible lender must:
(a) Meet the qualifications of, and be approved by, the Secretary of HUD to make multifamily housing loans that are to be insured under the National Housing Act;
(b) Meet the qualifications and be approved by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae to make multifamily housing loans that are to be sold to or securitized by such corporations;
(c) Be a state or local HFA, or a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank system, with a demonstrated ability to underwrite, originate, process, close, service, manage, and dispose of multifamily housing loans in a prudent manner;
(d) Be a lender who meets the requirements for Agency approval contained in this subpart and has a demonstrated ability to underwrite, originate, process, close, service, manage, and dispose of multifamily housing loans in a prudent manner; or
(e) Be a lender who meets the following requirements in addition to the other requirements of this subpart and of subpart I of this part:
(1) Have qualified staff to perform multifamily housing servicing and asset management;
(2) Have facilities and systems that support servicing and asset management functions; and
(3) Have documented procedures for carrying out servicing and asset management responsibilities.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 2931, Jan. 19, 2005]
§ 3565.103
Approval requirements.
The Agency will establish and maintain a “list of approved lenders”. To be an approved lender, eligible lenders must meet the following requirements and maintain them on a continuing basis at a level consistent with the nature and size of their portfolio of guaranteed loans.
(a)
Commitment.
A lender must have a commitment for a guaranteed loan or an agreement to purchase a guaranteed loan.
(b)
Audited statement.
A lender must provide the Agency with an annual audited financial statement conducted in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
(c)
Previous participation.
A lender may not be delinquent on a federal debt or have an outstanding finding of deficiency in a federal housing program.
(d)
Ongoing requirements.
A lender must meet the following requirements at initial application and on a continuing basis thereafter:
(1) Overall financial strength, including capital, liquidity, and loan loss reserves, to have an acceptable level of financial soundness as determined by a lender rating service (such as Sheshunoff, Inc.); or to be an approved Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae or HUD Federal Housing Administration multifamily lender; or, if a state housing finance agency, to have a top tier rating by a rating agency (such as Standard and Poor's Corporation);
(2) Bonding and insurance to cover business related losses, including directors and officers insurance, business income loss insurance, and bonding to secure cash management operations;
(3) A minimum of two years experience in originating and servicing multifamily loans;
(4) A positive record of past performance when participating in RHS or other federal loan programs;
(5) Adequate staffing and training to perform the program obligations; the head underwriter must have 3 years of experience and all staff must receive annual multifamily training;
(6) Demonstrated overall financial stability of the business over the past five years;
(7) Evidence of reasonable and prudent business practices for management of the program; and
(8) No negative information on Dunn
Bradstreet or similar type report.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 32372, June 16, 1999; 70 FR 2931, Jan. 19, 2005; 76 FR 4, Jan. 3, 2011]
§ 3565.104
Application requirements.
Eligible lenders must submit a lender approval application, in a format prescribed by the Agency. The lender approval application submission must occur at the time the lender submits its first application for a loan guarantee, or its first application to purchase a guaranteed loan. The application must include documentation of lender compliance with § 3565.103. A non-refundable application fee will be charged for each review of a lender's application.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 84 FR 55036, Oct. 15, 2019]
§ 3565.105
Lender compliance.
A lender will remain an approved lender unless terminated by the Agency. To maintain approval, the lender must comply with the following requirements.
(a) Maintain eligibility in accordance with §§ 3565.102 and 3565.103;
(b) Comply with all applicable statutes, regulations, and procedures;
(c) Inform the Agency of any material change in the lender's staffing, policies and procedures, or corporate structure;
(d) Cooperate fully with all program or Agency monitoring and auditing policies and procedures, including the Agency's annual audit of approved lenders; and
(e) Maintain active participation in the multifamily guaranteed loan program by initiating a new loan guarantee or holding a loan guaranteed under this program.
§ 3565.106
Construction lender requirements.
A lender making a construction loan, as part of a construction and permanent loan, must demonstrate an ability to originate and service construction loans, in addition to meeting the other requirements of this subpart.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 4, Jan. 3, 2011]
§ 3565.107
[Reserved]
§ 3565.108
Responsibility for actions of agents and mortgage brokers.
An approved lender is responsible for the actions of its agents and mortgage brokers.
§ 3565.109
Minimum loan prohibition.
A lender must not establish a minimum loan amount for loans under this program.
§ 3565.110
Insolvency of lender.
The Agency may require a lender to transfer a guaranteed loan or loans to another approved lender prior to a determination of insolvency by the lender. If the lender fails to transfer a loan when required, the guarantee will be considered null and void.
§ 3565.111
Lobbying activities.
An approved lender must comply with RD Instruction 1940-Q (available in any Rural Development Office) regarding lobbying activities.
§§ 3565.112-3565.149
[Reserved]
§ 3565.150
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart D—Borrower Eligibility Requirements
§ 3565.151
Eligible borrowers.
Guaranteed loans must be made to an eligible borrower whose intention is to provide and maintain rural rental housing. The ownership entity must be a valid entity in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized. Eligible borrowers shall include individuals, corporations, state or local public agencies or an instrumentality thereof, partnerships, limited liability companies, trusts, Indian tribes, or any organization deemed eligible by the Agency. Eligible borrowers must be U.S. citizens or permanent
legal residents; a U.S. owned corporation, or a limited liability company, or partnership in which the principals are U.S. citizens or permanent legal residents.
§ 3565.152
Control of land.
At time of application, the lender must have evidence of site control by the borrower (option to purchase, lease, deed or other evidence acceptable to the Agency). At the time of loan closing, the lender's closing docket must provide documentary evidence that the borrower owns or has a long-term lease on the land on which the housing is or will be located. The form of ownership or the leasehold agreement must meet Agency requirements. Notwithstanding any investment in the site, the site may not be accepted based on the Agency's environmental assessment.
§ 3565.153
Experience and capacity of borrower.
At the time of application, the lender must certify that the borrower:
(a) Has the ability and experience to construct or rehabilitate multifamily housing that meets the requirements established by the Agency, the lender and the loan agreement;
(b) Has the legal and financial capacity to meet all of the obligations of the loan; and
(c) Has the ability and experience to meet the property management requirements established by the Agency, the lender, and the loan agreement.
§ 3565.154
Previous participation in state and federal programs.
Loans to borrowers who are delinquent on a federal debt may not be guaranteed. Furthermore, borrowers or principals thereof who have defaulted on state or local government loans will not be eligible for a guarantee unless the Agency determines that the default was beyond the borrower's control, and that the identifiable reasons for the default no longer exist. At the time of application, the lender must obtain from the borrower a certification that the borrower is not under any state or federal order suspending or debarring participation in state or federal loan programs and that the borrower is not delinquent on any non-tax obligation to the United States.
§ 3565.155
Identity of interest.
At the time of application, the lender must certify that it has disclosed any and all identity of interest relationships and preexisting conditions with respect to its relationships and that of the borrower, or that no identity of interest relationships exists. Identity of interest relationships include any financial or other relationship that exists or will exist between a lender, borrower, management agent, supplier, or any agent of any of these entities, that could influence, give the appearance of influencing or have the potential to influence the actions of the parties in carrying out their responsibilities under the program. Disclosure will be in a form and manner established by the Agency.
§ 3565.156
Certification of compliance with federal, state, and local laws and with Agency requirements.
At the time of application, the lender must obtain from the borrower a certification of compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, and with Agency requirements regarding discrimination and equal opportunity in housing, including title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, and the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988. The borrower must also certify that it is not the subject of any federal, state, or local sanction or punitive action.
§§ 3565.157-3565.199
[Reserved]
§ 3565.200
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart E—Loan Requirements
§ 3565.201
General.
To be eligible for a guarantee, a loan must comply with the provisions of this subpart and be originated by an approved lender.
§ 3565.202
Tenant eligibility.
(a)
Limits on income of tenants.
The housing units subject to a guaranteed loan must be available for occupancy only by low or moderate-income families or individuals whose incomes at the time of initial occupancy do not exceed 115 percent of the area median income. After initial occupancy, a tenant's income may exceed these limits.
(b)
Citizenship status.
A tenant must be a United States citizen or a noncitizen who is a qualified alien as defined in § 3565.3.
§ 3565.203
Restrictions on rents.
The rent for any individual housing unit, including any tenant-paid utilities, must not exceed an amount equal to 30 percent of 115 percent of area median income, adjusted for family size. In addition, on an annual basis, the average rent for a project, taking into account all individual unit rents, must not exceed 30 percent of 100 percent of area median income, adjusted for family size.
§ 3565.204
Maximum loan amount.
(a)
Section 207(c) limits and exceptions.
For that part of the property that is attributable to dwelling use, the principal obligation of each guaranteed loan must not exceed the applicable maximum per-unit limitations under section 207(c) of the National Housing Act.
(b)
Loan-to-value limits.
(1) In the case of a borrower that is a nonprofit organization or an agency or body of any State, local or tribal government, each guaranteed loan must involve a principal obligation that does not exceed the lesser of 97 percent of:
(i) The development costs of the housing and related facilities, or
(ii) The lender's determination of value not to exceed the appraised value of the housing and facilities.
(2) In the case of a borrower that is a for-profit entity or other entity not referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each guaranteed loan must involve a principal obligation that does not exceed the lesser of 90 percent of:
(i) The development costs of the housing and related facilities, or
(ii) The lender's determination of value not to exceed the appraised value of the housing and facilities.
(3) To protect the interest of the Agency or to further the objectives of the program, the Agency may establish lower loan-to-value limits or further restrict the statutory maximum limits based upon its evaluation of the credit quality of the loan.
(c)
Necessary assistance review.
(1) A lender requesting a loan guarantee must review all loans to determine the appropriate amount of assistance necessary to complete and maintain the project. The lender shall recommend to the Agency an adjustment in the loan amount if appropriate as a result of this review.
(2) Where the project financing combines a guaranteed loan with Low-Income Housing Tax Credits or other Federal assistance, the project must conform to the policies regarding necessary assistance in 7 CFR 3560.63 (d) or successor provision.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 69176, Nov. 26, 2004]
§ 3565.205
Eligible uses of loan proceeds.
Eligible uses of loan proceeds must conform with standards and conditions for housing and facilities contained in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A or successor provision, except that the Agency, at its sole discretion, may approve, in advance, a higher level of amenities, construction, and fees for projects proposed for a guaranteed loan provided the costs and features are reasonable and customary for similar housing in the market area.
(a)
Use of loan proceeds.
The proceeds of a guaranteed loan may be used for the following purposes relating to the project.
(1) New construction costs of the project;
(2) Moderate or substantial rehabilitation of buildings and acquisition costs when related to the rehabilitation of a building as described in paragraph (b) of this section;
(3) Acquisition of existing buildings, when approved by the Agency, for projects that serve a special housing need;
(4) Acquisition and improvement of land on which housing will be located;
(5) Development of on-site and off-site improvements essential to the use of the property;
(6) Development of related facilities such as community space, recreation, storage or maintenance structures, except that any high cost recreational facility, such as swimming pools and exercise clubs or similar facilities, must be specifically approved in advance by the Agency;
(7) Construction of on-site management or maintenance offices and living quarters for operating personnel for the property being financed;
(8) Purchase and installation of appliances and certain approved decorating items, such as window blinds, shades, or wallpaper;
(9) Development of the surrounding grounds, including parking, signs, landscaping and fencing;
(10) Costs associated with commercial space provided that:
(i) The project is designed primarily for residential use;
(ii) The commercial use consists of essential tenant service type facilities, such as laundry rooms, that are not otherwise conveniently available;
(iii) The commercial space does not exceed 10 percent of the gross floor area of the residential units and common areas, unless a higher level is specifically approved in writing by the Agency; and
(iv) The commercial activity is compatible with the use of the project and that the income is not more than 10 percent of the total annual operating income of the project.
(11) Costs for feasibility determination, loan application fees, appraisals, environmental documentation, professional fees or other fees determined by the Agency to be necessary to the development of the project;
(12) Technical assistance to and by non-profit entities to assist in the formation, development, and packaging of a project, or formation or incorporation of a borrower entity;
(13) Education programs for a board of directors, both before and after incorporation of a cooperative that will serve as the borrower;
(14) Construction interest accrued on the construction loan;
(15) Relocation assistance in the case of rehabilitation projects;
(16) Developers' fees; and
(17) Repaying applicant debts in the following cases:
(i) When the Agency authorizes in writing in advance the use of loan funds to pay debts for work, materials, land purchase, or other fees and charges before the loan is closed; or
(ii) When the Agency concurs in writing with a determination by the lender that costs for work, fees and charges incurred prior to loan application are integral to development of the guarantee application and project.
(b)
Rehabilitation requirements.
Rehabilitation work must be classified as either moderate or substantial as defined in exhibit K of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A or a successor document. In all cases, the building or project must be structurally sound, and improvements must be necessary to meet the requirements of decent, safe, and sanitary living units. Applications must include a structural analysis, along with plans and specifications describing the type and amount of planned rehabilitation. The project as rehabilitated must meet the applicable development standards contained in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A, as well as any applicable historic preservation and environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 11050, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 3565.206
Ineligible uses of loan proceeds.
Loan proceeds must not be used for the following:
(a) Specialized equipment for training and therapy;
(b) Housing in military impact areas;
(c) Housing that serves primarily temporary and transient residents;
(d) Nursing homes, special care facilities and institutional type homes that require licensing as a medical care facility;
(e) Operating capital for central dining facilities or for any items not affixed to the real estate, such as special
portable equipment, furnishings, kitchen ware, dining ware, eating utensils, movable tables and chairs, etc.;
(f) Payment of fees, salaries and commissions or compensation to borrowers (except developers' fees); or
(g) Refinancing of an outstanding debt, except in the case of an existing guaranteed loan where the Agency determines that the refinancing is in the government's interest or furthers the objectives of the program. The term and amount of any loan for refinancing must not exceed the maximum loan amount or term limits.
§ 3565.207
Form of lien.
The loan originated by the lender for a guarantee must be secured by a first lien against the property.
§ 3565.208
Maximum loan term.
(a)
Statutory term limit.
The lender may set the term of the loan, but in no instance may the term of a guaranteed loan exceed the lesser of 40 years or the remaining economic life of the project.
(b)
Prepayment of loans.
A guaranteed loan may be prepaid in whole or in part at the determination of the lender, and upon the lender's written notice to the Agency at least 30 days prior to the expected date of prepayment. The Agency will not pay any lockout or prepayment penalty assessed by the lender. The lender must certify the following in the notice of prepayment:
(1) The lease documents used by the borrower or its agent prohibit the abrogation of tenant leases in the event of prepayment; and
(2) The borrower has notified tenants of the request to prepay the loan, including notice of the prohibition against abrogation of the lease and the policy and procedure for handling complaints regarding compliance with the long-term use restriction as contained in subpart H of this part.
§ 3565.209
Loan amortization.
Each guaranteed loan shall be made for a period of not less than 25 nor greater than 40 years from the date the loan was made and may provide for amortization of the loan over a period of not to exceed 40 years with a final payment of the balance due at the end of the loan term.
[67 FR 16970, Apr. 9, 2002]
§ 3565.210
Maximum interest rate.
The interest rate for a guaranteed loan must not exceed the maximum allowable rate specified by the Agency. This interest rate must be fixed over the term of the loan.
[84 FR 55036, Oct. 15, 2019]
§ 3565.211
Interest credit.
(a)
Limitation.
For at least 20 percent of the loans made during each fiscal year, the Agency will provide assistance in the form of interest credit, to the extent necessary to reduce the agreed-upon rate of interest to the AFR as such term is used in section 42(I)(2)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 7805, § 1.42-1T.
(b)
Selection criteria.
The Agency will select projects to receive interest credits using any of such criteria as the Agency may establish for priority projects as contained in subpart A of this part.
§ 3565.212
Multiple guaranteed loans.
The Agency may guarantee more than one loan on any project if all guaranteed loans, in the aggregate, comply with these regulations, including without limitation:
(a) In the aggregate, loans do not exceed the maximum guaranteed loan amount and loan-to-value limits, as contained in § 3565.204;
(b) In the aggregate, loans are all to be secured equally by a first lien as the Agency may, at its sole discretion, determine necessary to ensure repayment of the loans; and
(c) If different lenders originate the loans, each lender has executed an intercreditor agreement in form and substance acceptable to the Agency.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 2931, Jan. 19, 2005]
§ 3565.213
Geographic distribution.
The Agency may refuse to guarantee a loan in an area where there is undue risk due to a concentration in the market of properties subject to a Agency guaranteed loan. The Agency will consider the credit quality of the loan and
overall market conditions in making a determination of undue risk. If any of the Agency guaranteed loans in the market are experiencing vacancy rates in excess of 15% and the vacancy is due to market conditions, the Agency will invoke this provision and not guarantee the loan.
§ 3565.214
[Reserved]
§ 3565.215
Special conditions.
(a)
Use of third party funds.
As a condition of receiving a guaranteed loan, the Agency, or the lender if designated by the Agency, must review the terms and conditions of any secondary financing or funding of projects, including loans, capital grants or rental assistance.
(b)
Recourse.
If required by the lender, loans guaranteed under this program may be made on a recourse or nonrecourse basis, or with any personal or special borrower guarantees on collateralization.
§§ 3565.216-3565.249
[Reserved]
§ 3565.250
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart F—Property Requirements
§ 3565.251
Eligible property.
To be eligible for a guaranteed loan, a property must be used primarily for residential dwelling purposes and must meet the following requirements or the requirements of this subpart:
(a)
Property location.
All the property must be located in a rural area.
(b)
Minimum size of development.
The property must consist of at least five rental dwelling units.
(c)
Non-contiguous sites.
For a loan secured by two or more non-contiguous parcels of land, all sites must meet each of the following requirements:
(1) Located in one market area;
(2) Managed under one management plan with one loan agreement or resolution for all of the sites; and
(3) Consist of single asset ownership.
(d)
Compliance with statutes.
All properties must comply with the applicable requirements in section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Fair Housing Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and other applicable statutes.
§ 3565.252
Housing types.
The property may include new construction or rehabilitation of existing structures. The units may be attached, detached, semi-detached, row houses, modular or manufactured houses, or multifamily structures. Manufactured housing must meet Agency requirements contained in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A. The Agency will guarantee proposals for new construction or acquisition with moderate or substantial rehabilitation of at least $6,500 per dwelling unit. The portion of guaranteed funds available for acquisition with rehabilitation may be limited.
[84 FR 55036, Oct. 15, 2019]
§ 3565.253
Form of ownership.
The property must be owned in fee simple or be subject to a ground lease or other legal right in land acceptable to the Agency.
§ 3565.254
Property standards.
(a)
Housing quality and site and neighborhood standards.
The property must meet the site and neighborhood requirements established by the state or locality, and those standards contained under 7 CFR part 1924, subparts A and C or any successor regulations.
(b)
Third party assessments.
As part of the application for a guaranteed loan, the lender must provide documentation of qualified third parties' assessments of the property's physical condition and any environmental conditions or hazards which may have a bearing on the market value of the property. These assessments must include:
(1) An acceptable property appraisal.
(2) A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment (American Society of Testing and Materials).
(3) A Standard Flood Hazard Determination.
(4) In the case of the purchase of an existing structure, rehabilitation or refinancing, a physical needs assessment.
§ 3565.255
Environmental review requirements.
Under the National Environmental Policy Act, the Agency is required to assess the potential impact of the proposed actions on protected environmental resources. Measures to avoid or mitigate adverse impacts to protected resources may require a change in site or project design. A site will not be approved by the Agency until the Agency has completed the environmental review process in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
[81 FR 11050, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 3565.256
Architectural services.
Architectural services must be provided for the project in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A or successor regulation, including plan certifications.
§ 3565.257
Procurement actions.
All construction procurement actions, whether by sealed bid or by negotiation, must be conducted in a manner that provides maximum open and free competition.
§§ 3565.258-3565.299
[Reserved]
§ 3565.300
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart G—Processing Requirements
§ 3565.301
Loan standards.
An approved lender must originate and underwrite the loan and appraise the subject property in accordance with prudent lending practices and Agency criteria addressing the following factors:
(a) Borrower qualifications and creditworthiness;
(b) Property, vacancy, market vacancy or collection loss;
(c) Rental concessions and rent levels;
(d) Tenant demand and housing supply;
(e) Property operating and maintenance expense;
(f) Property requirements as contained in subpart F of this part;
(g) Debt coverage ratio;
(h) Operating and long-term capital requirements;
(i) Loan-to-value ratio;
(j) Return on borrower equity; and
(k) Estimated long-term marketability of the project.
§ 3565.302
Allowable fees.
(a)
Lender fees.
The lender is authorized to charge reasonable and necessary fees in connection with a borrower's application for a guaranteed loan.
(b)
Agency fees.
The Agency will charge one or more types of fees deemed appropriate as reimbursement for reasonable and necessary costs incurred in connection with applications received from lenders. Agency fees may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Site assessment and market analysis or preliminary feasibility fee.
A fee for review of an application for a determination of preliminary feasibility.
(2)
Application fee.
A fee submitted in conjunction with the application for a loan guarantee.
(3)
Inspection fee.
A fee for inspection of the property in conjunction with a loan guarantee.
(4)
Transfer fee.
A fee in connection with a request for approval of a transfer of physical assets or a change in the composition of the ownership entity.
(5)
Extension or reopening fees.
A fee to extend the guarantee commitment or to reopen an application when a commitment has expired.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 84 FR 55036, Oct. 15, 2019]
§ 3565.303
Issuance of loan guarantee.
(a)
Preliminary feasibility review.
During the initial processing of a loan, the
lender may request a preliminary feasibility review by the Agency when required loan documentation is submitted.
(b)
Conditional commitment to guarantee a loan.
The Agency will issue a conditional commitment to guarantee a loan. This commitment will be good for such time frame as the Agency deems appropriate based on project requirements. The commitment to guarantee a loan, will specify any conditions necessary to obtain a determination by the Agency that all program requirements have been met. A conditional commitment can be issued, subject to the availability of funds,
after
:
(1) Completion of environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970; and
(2) Selection of the proposed project for funding by the Agency in accordance with ranking and selection criteria.
(c)
Guarantee during construction.
When requesting a guarantee on construction loan advances under § 3565.52(c)(2) and (c)(3), Options 2 and 3, the Agency will only issue a guarantee to an approved lender that the Agency determines is eligible under § 3565.106 of this part.
(1) This guarantee will be subject to the limits contained in subpart B of this part and in the loan closing documentation.
(2) In all cases, the lender must obtain one of the following protections:
(i) Surety bonding or performance and payment bonding acceptable to the Agency;
(ii) An irrevocable letter of credit acceptable to the Agency; or
(iii) A pledge to the lender of collateral that is acceptable to the Agency.
(3) The lender must verify amounts expended prior to each payment for completed work and certify that an independent inspector has inspected the property and found it to be in conformance with Agency standards. The lender must provide verification that all subcontractors have been paid and no liens have been filed against the property.
(d)
Permanent loan guarantee.
The guarantee of a permanent loan provided under § 3565.52(c)(1) or (c)(2) will be issued once the following items have been submitted to and approved by the Agency:
(1) Certification from the lender stating that the lender or its qualified representative inspected the property and found that the construction meets the Government's requirements for the standards and conditions for housing and facilities in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A and the standards for site development in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart C, or its successor regulations;
(2) Cash flow certification—the lender certifies, in writing, the project's cash flow assumptions are still valid and depict compliance with the section 538 program's debt service coverage ratio requirement of at least 1.15, based on the lender's analysis of current market conditions and comparable properties in the project's market area;
(3) Documentation that either:
(i) The project has attained a minimum level of acceptable occupancy of 90% for 90 continuous days within the 120-day period immediately preceding the issuance of the permanent guarantee, or
(ii) Additional funds, supplementing the funds required under § 3565.303(d), have been added to the lease-up reserve in an amount the Agency determines is necessary to cover projected shortfalls.
(4) A new appraisal based upon completion of construction. Upon a lender's written request, the Agency may exempt a project from this requirement if requested by the lender and the project meets the following criteria:
(i)
Original appraisal
—the original appraisal that meets the Agency's appraisal requirements with a valuation date no older than 36 months;
(ii)
Valuation
—the appraisal's lowest valuation, regardless of valuation approach and rent restrictions considered, is greater than the section 538 guaranteed loan amount; and
(iii)
Guaranteed loan balance
—the Agency's guaranteed loan's principal balance does not exceed 50 percent [unless a different percent has been announced in a Notice published in the
Federal Register
] of the project's total development costs.
(5) A certificate of substantial completion;
(6) A certificate of occupancy or similar evidence of local approval;
(7) A final inspection conducted by a qualified Agency representative;
(8) A final cost certification in a form acceptable to the Agency;
(9) A submission to the Agency of the complete closing docket;
(10) A certification by the lender that the project has reached an acceptable minimum level occupancy;
(11) An executed regulatory agreement;
(12) The Lender certifies that it has approved the borrower's management plan and assures that the borrower is in compliance with Agency standards regarding property management contained in subparts E and F of this part;
(13) Necessary information to complete an updated necessary assistance review by the Agency under § 3565.204(c); and
(14) Compliance with all conditions contained in the conditional commitment for guarantee.
(e)
Modification of guarantee amount after commitment.
The Agency may modify the guarantee amount or decline to issue a loan guarantee when a lender fails to honor obligations or to fulfill representations made under the guarantee commitment.
(f)
Continuous Guarantee Compliance.
The continuous guarantee will remain in effect once construction is completed. In order to remain in compliance with 7 CFR part 3565, the following items must be submitted to and approved by the Agency. These items will be submitted to the Agency by the date stated in the Conditional Commitment and any Agency approved extension(s).
(1) Certification from the lender stating that the lender or its qualified representative inspected the property and found that the construction meets the Government's requirements for the standards and conditions for housing and facilities in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A and the standards for site development in 7 CFR part 1924, subpart C, or its successor regulations;
(2) Cash flow certification—the lender certifies in writing the project's cash flow assumptions are still valid and depict compliance with the section 538 program's debt service coverage ratio requirement of at least 1.15, based on the lender's analysis of current market conditions and comparable properties in the project's market area;
(3) Documentation that either:
(i) The project has attained a minimum level of acceptable occupancy of 90% for 90 continuous days within the 120-day period immediately preceding the issuance of the permanent guarantee, or
(ii) Additional funds, supplementing the funds required under § 3565.303(d), have been added to the lease-up reserve in an amount the Agency determines is necessary to cover projected shortfalls.
(4) An appraisal of the property;
(5) A certificate of substantial completion;
(6) A certificate of occupancy or similar evidence of local approval;
(7) A final inspection conducted by a qualified Agency representative;
(8) A final cost certification in a form acceptable to the Agency;
(9) A submission to the Agency of the complete closing docket;
(10) A certification by the lender that the project has reached an acceptable minimum level occupancy;
(11) An executed regulatory agreement;
(12) The Lender certifies that it has approved the borrower's management plan and assures that the borrower is in compliance with Agency standards regarding property management contained in subparts E and F of this part;
(13) Necessary information to complete an updated necessary assistance review by the Agency under § 3565.204(c); and
(14) Compliance with all conditions contained in the conditional commitment for guarantee.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 32372, June 16, 1999; 76 FR 4, Jan. 3, 2011; 81 FR 11050, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 3565.304
Lender loan processing responsibilities.
(a)
Application.
The lender will be responsible for submitting an application for a loan guarantee in a format prescribed by the Agency. Lenders may submit an application at the feasibility stage or when they request a conditional commitment.
(b)
Project servicing, management and disposition.
Unless otherwise permitted by the Agency, the originating lender
must perform all loan functions during the period of the guarantee. These functions include servicing, asset management, and, if necessary, property disposition. The lender must maintain and service the loan in accordance with the provisions of subpart I of this part and Agency servicing procedures.
§ 3565.305
Mortgage and closing requirements.
It is the lender's responsibility to ensure that the loan closing statement and required loan documents are in a form acceptable to the Agency and included in the closing docket. The lender is responsible for resolving any underwriting and loan closing deficiencies that are found. The Agency's review of the lender's loan closing documentation does not constitute a waiver of fraud, misrepresentation, or failure of judgment by the lender.
§§ 3565.306-3565.349
[Reserved]
§ 3565.350
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart H—Project Management
§ 3565.351
Project management.
As a condition of the guarantee, the lender is to obtain borrower certification that the project is in compliance with local, state, federal laws and program requirements.
(a)
Regulatory agreement.
A regulatory agreement between the borrower and lender must be executed at the time of loan closing and contain the following covenants:
(1) That it is binding upon the borrower and any of its successors and assigns, as well as upon the lender and any of its successors and assigns, for the duration of the guaranteed loan;
(2) That the borrower makes all payments due under the note and to the required escrow and reserve accounts;
(3) That the borrower maintains the project as affordable housing in accordance with the purposes and for the duration defined in the statute;
(4) That the borrower maintains the project in good physical and financial condition at all times;
(5) That the borrower obtains and maintains property insurance and any other insurance coverage required to protect the security;
(6) That the borrower maintains complete project books and financial records, and provides the Agency and the lender with an annual audited financial statement after the end of each fiscal year;
(7) That the borrower makes project books and records available for review by the Office of Inspector General, Rural Development staff, General Accounting Office, and the Department of Justice, or their representatives or successors upon appropriate notification;
(8) That the borrower prepares and complies with the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan and all other Fair Housing requirements;
(9) That the borrower operates as a single asset ownership entity, unless otherwise approved by the Agency;
(10) That the borrower complies with applicable federal, state and local laws; and
(11) That the borrower provides management satisfactory to the lender and to the Agency and complies with an approved management plan for the project.
(b)
Management plan.
The lender must approve the borrower's management plan and assure that the borrower is in compliance with Agency standards regarding property management, including the requirements contained in subparts E and F of this part.
(c)
Tenant protection and grievance procedures.
Tenants in properties subject to a guaranteed loan are entitled to the grievance and appeal rights contained in 7 CFR part 3560, subpart D or successor regulation. The borrower must inform tenants in writing of these rights.
(d)
Financial management
—(1)
Borrower reporting requirements.
At a minimum, the lender must obtain, on an annual basis, an audited annual financial statement conducted in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
(2)
Lender reporting requirements.
The lender must review the financial reports to assure that the property is in sound fiscal condition and the borrower is in compliance with financial requirements. The lender must report findings to the Agency as follows:
(i)
Annual reports.
The lender must submit to the Agency a copy of the annual financial audit of the project and must report on the nature and status of any findings. To the extent that outstanding findings or issues remain, the lender must submit to the Agency a copy of a plan of action for any unresolved findings.
(ii)
Monthly reports.
The lender must submit monthly reports to the Agency on all loans that are either in default, delinquent, or not in compliance with program requirements. This report must provide information on the financial condition of each loan, the physical condition of the property, the amount of delinquency, any other non-compliance with program requirements and the proposed actions and timetable to resolve the delinquency, default or non-compliance.
(3)
Reserve releases.
The lender is responsible for approving or disapproving all borrower requests for release of funds from the reserve and escrow accounts. Security deposit accounts will not be considered a reserve or escrow account.
(4)
Insurance requirements.
At loan closing, the borrower will provide the lender with documentary evidence that Agency insurance requirements have been met. The borrower must maintain insurance in accordance with Agency requirements until the loan is repaid and the lender must be named as the insurance policy's beneficiary. The lender must obtain insurance on the secured property if the borrower is unable or unwilling to do so and charge the cost as an advance.
(5)
Distribution of surplus cash.
Prior to the distribution of surplus cash to the owner, the lender must certify that the property is in good financial and physical condition and in compliance with the regulatory agreement. Such compliance includes payment of outstanding obligations, debt service, and required funding of reserve and escrow accounts.
(e)
Physical maintenance.
The lender must annually inspect the property to ensure that it is in compliance with state and local codes and program requirements. The lender must certify to the Agency that a property is in such compliance, or report to the Agency on any non-compliance items and proposed actions and timetable for resolution. Failure to provide responsive corrective action can result in reduction or cancellation of the guarantee by the Agency.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 32372, June 16, 1999; 69 FR 69176, Nov. 26, 2004]
§ 3565.352
Preservation of affordable housing.
(a)
Original purpose.
During the period of the guarantee, owners are prohibited from using the housing or related facilities for any purpose other than an approved program purpose.
(b)
Use restriction.
For the original term of the guaranteed loan, the housing must remain available for occupancy by low and moderate income households, in accordance with subpart E of this part. This requirement will be included in a deed restriction or other instrument acceptable to the Agency. The restriction will apply unless the housing is acquired by foreclosure or an instrument in lieu of foreclosure, or the Agency waives the applicability of this requirement after determining that each of the following three circumstances exist.
(1) There is no longer a need for low-and moderate-income housing in the market area in which the housing is located;
(2) Housing opportunities for low-income households and minorities will not be reduced as a result of the waiver; and
(3) Additional federal assistance will not be necessary as a result of the waiver.
§ 3565.353
Affirmative fair housing marketing.
As a condition of the guarantee, the lender must ensure that the lender and borrower are in compliance with the approved Affirmative Fair Housing
Marketing Plan. This plan must be reviewed annually by the lender to ensure that the borrower remains in compliance and to recommend modifications, as necessary.
§ 3565.354
Fair housing accommodations.
The lender must ensure that the borrower is in compliance with the applicable fair housing laws in the development of the property, the selection of applicants for housing, and ongoing management. See subpart A of this part.
§ 3565.355
Changes in ownership.
Any change in ownership, in whole or in part, must be approved by the lender and the Agency before such change takes effect.
§§ 3565.356-3565.399
[Reserved]
§ 3565.400
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart I—Servicing Requirements
§ 3565.401
Servicing objectives.
The participating lender is responsible for servicing the guaranteed loan throughout the term of the loan or guarantee, whichever is less. In all cases, the lender remains responsible for liquidation of the property in accordance with the Loan Note Agreement, unless otherwise determined by the Agency. A lender-servicing plan must be designed and implemented to achieve the following objectives.
(a) To preserve the value of the loan and the real estate;
(b) To avoid a loss to the lender or the Agency and to limit exposure to potential loss;
(c) To protect the interests of the tenants; and
(d) To further program objectives.
§ 3565.402
Servicing responsibilities.
The lender must service the loan in accordance with this subpart and perform the services contained in this section in a reasonable and prudent manner. The lender is responsible for the actions of its agents and representatives.
(a)
Funds management.
The lender must have a funds management system to receive and process borrower payments, including the following.
(1) All principal and interest (P
I) funds and guarantee fees collected and deposited into the appropriate custodial accounts.
(2) Payments to custodial escrow accounts for taxes and insurance premiums, assessments that might impair the security (such as ground rent), and reserve accounts for repair and capital improvement of the property.
(b)
Asset management.
The lender must ensure that the property securing the guaranteed loan remains in good physical and financial condition, in accordance with project management requirements contained in subpart H of this part.
(c)
Management of delinquencies and defaults.
Each month the lender must report to the Agency any delinquencies and defaults in accordance with subpart H of this part.
§ 3565.403
Special servicing.
Special servicing must be initiated when regular servicing actions are insufficient to resolve borrower default or property deficiencies.
(a)
Repurchase from Holder.
For securitized loans, the Holder may require the lender or Government to repurchase the security in accordance with the provisions of § 3565.405.
(b)
Responsibility of lender.
It is the lender's responsibility during special servicing to make a special effort to ensure that maintenance of the property meets Agency requirements and the tenants' rights are protected, until such time that the property is liquidated by the lender, the loan is paid in full, or the loan is assigned to the Agency. The lender must update the Agency monthly until the default is cured or a claim is filed. The lender must maintain adequate records of any and all efforts to cure the default or to foreclose.
(c)
Initiating special servicing.
When special servicing is initiated, the lender must submit for Agency review a special servicing plan that includes proposed actions to cure the deficiencies and a timeframe for completion. The special servicing plan will specify the proposed terms of any workout agreement recommended by the lender. The lender must obtain Agency approval of the terms of any workout agreement with the borrower. The workout agreement may include a loan modification, transfer of physical assets, or partial payment of claim and reamortization of the loan. Failure to comply with terms contained in the executed workout agreement will be considered a default of the guaranteed loan.
(1)
Loan modification.
The borrower and lender may agree to a loan modification when such action will improve the financial viability of the project and its operations, and when a circumstance exists that is beyond the borrower's control. The Agency must approve in advance any loan modification that extends the life of the loan or requires an increase in the amount of the guarantee. All changes must be within the requirements of section 538 of the Housing Act of 1949.
(2)
Change in ownership and transfer of physical assets.
A default or delinquency may be resolved by a change of the ownership entity in whole or in part. The Agency must approve all changes in ownership prior to the effective date of the transfer, and may require additional resources from the lender or borrower to resolve project deficiencies.
(3)
Partial payment of claims.
The lender may request a partial payment of claim as a result of a loss experienced by the lender as a means to work out a troubled loan. The Agency will accept such claim if it determines that it is in the best interest of the government. In applying the partial payment, the lender must assign the obligation covered by the partial payment to the Agency, and, if required by the Agency, reamortize the obligation using the amount of the remaining obligation over an agreed-upon term.
(d)
Claims processing.
In the event of a loss, the lender must submit claims under the guarantee in accordance with subpart J of this part. Prior to submitting a claim, the lender must exhaust all possibilities of collection on the loan.
(e)
Displacement prevention.
The actions of the lender must not harm the property's tenants through displacement.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 16971, Apr. 9, 2002; 70 FR 2931, Jan. 19, 2005]
§ 3565.404
Transfer of loans or mortgage servicing.
Transfer of servicing is prohibited unless the Agency determines that circumstances warrant such action, the proposed lender is an eligible lender approved by the Agency, and the transfer of servicing is approved by the Agency in advance.
§ 3565.405
Repurchase of guaranteed loans.
(a)
Repurchase by lender.
The Holder may make written demand on the lender to repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan when the borrower is in default not less than 60 calendar days on principal or interest due on the loan; or the lender has failed to remit to the Holder its pro rata share of any payment made by the borrower within 30 calendar days of receipt by the lender. The Holder must concurrently send a copy of the demand letter to the Agency. The lender will notify the Holder and the Agency of its decision to repurchase within 10 business days from the date of the written demand letter by the Holder. The lender may agree to repurchase the unpaid portion of the entire loan from the Holder, even though the guarantee does not cover any unguaranteed portion of the loan held by the Holder. If the lender decides to repurchase, the lender has 30 calendar days from the date of the Holder's written demand letter to do so. The guarantee does not cover any unguaranteed portion of the loan or the note interest to the Holder on the guaranteed loan accruing after 90 calendar days from the date of the Holder's demand letter to the lender requesting the repurchase. The lender may deduct the lender's servicing fee
from the repurchase amount. The lender will accept an assignment without recourse from the Holder upon repurchase. The lender is encouraged to repurchase the loan to facilitate the accounting of funds, resolve problems, and to prevent default where and when reasonable.
(b)
Repurchase by Agency.
(1) If the lender does not repurchase the loan as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will purchase from the Holder the unpaid principal balance of the guaranteed portion together with accrued interest to date of repurchase, less the lender's servicing fee, within 30 calendar days after written demand to the Agency from the Holder. The guarantee will not cover the note interest to the Holder on the guaranteed loan accruing after 90 calendar days from the date of the original demand letter of the Holder to the lender requesting the repurchase. Holders of Loan Note Guarantees that have been issued prior to the effective date of this final rule may opt to adhere to the terms and conditions of the Loan Note Guarantee then in effect. In case of loan default, the Holder of a Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule will stipulate, in a written demand for repurchase, its preference for repurchase in accordance with the Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule. If the demand for repurchase does not stipulate a preference for repurchase in accordance with the Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule, the Agency will process the demand for repurchase as stated in this final rule. The Holder must stipulate a preference for repurchase in accordance with the Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule in the first demand for repurchase. The Holder of the Loan Note Guarantee issued prior to the effective date of this final rule cannot make a subsequent demand for repurchase changing the preference stipulated in the original demand for repurchase.
(2) The Holder's demand to the Agency must include a copy of the written demand made to the lender. The Holder must also include evidence of its right to require payment from the Agency. Such evidence will consist of either the original of the Loan Note Guarantee properly endorsed to the Agency or the original of an Agency approved assignment guarantee agreement, properly assigned to the Agency without recourse including all rights, title, and interest in the loan. The Holder must include in its demand the amount due including unpaid principal, unpaid interest to date of demand, and interest subsequently accruing from date of demand to proposed payment date. The Agency will be subrogated to all rights of the Holder.
(3) The Agency will notify the lender of its receipt of the Holder's demand for payment. The lender must provide the Agency with the information necessary for the Agency to determine the appropriate amount due the Holder within 10 business days from the date of the written demand letter to the lender from the Holder requesting repurchase of the guaranteed portion. The lender will furnish a current statement certified by an appropriate authorized officer of the lender stating the unpaid principal and interest then owed by the borrower on the loan and the amount then owed to any Holder. Any discrepancy between the amount claimed by the Holder and the information submitted by the lender must be resolved between the lender and the Holder before payment will be approved. The Agency will coordinate the resolution of the discrepancy. Such conflict will suspend the running of the 30 calendar day payment requirement.
(4) Purchase by the Agency does not change, alter, or modify any of the lender's obligations to the Agency arising from the loan or guarantee nor does it waive any of the Agency's rights against the lender. As Holder, the Agency will have the right to set-off any payments the Agency owes the lender.
[70 FR 2931, Jan. 19, 2005]
§§ 3565.406-3565.449
[Reserved]
§ 3565.450
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control
number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart J—Assignment, Conveyance, and Claims
§ 3565.451
Preclaim requirements.
(a)
Lender certifications.
After borrower default and before filing a claim or assignment of the loan to the Agency, the lender must make every reasonable and prudent effort to resolve the default. The lender must provide the Agency with an accounting of all proposed and actual actions taken to cure the default. The lender must certify that all reasonable efforts to cure the default have been exhausted. Where the lender fails to comply with the terms of the loan guarantee agreement and the corresponding regulations and guidance with regard to liquidating the property, the Agency, at its option, may take possession of the security collateral and dispose of the property.
(b)
Due diligence by lender.
For all loan servicing actions where a market, net recovery or liquidation value determination is required, guaranteed lenders shall perform due diligence in conjunction with the appraisal and submit it to the Agency for review. The Phase I Environmental Site Assessment published by the American Society of Testing and Materials is considered an acceptable format for due diligence.
(c)
Environmental review.
The Agency is required to complete an environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act, in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. Servicing actions as defined in § 1970.6 are part of financial assistance already provided and do not require additional NEPA review. However, certain post-financial assistance actions that have the potential to have an effect on the environment, such as lien subordinations, sale or lease of Agency-owned real property, or approval of a substantial change in the scope of a project, as defined in § 1970.8, are subject to a NEPA analysis in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
[63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 11050, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 3565.452
Decision to liquidate.
(a) A decision to liquidate shall be made when it is determined that the default cannot be cured through actions contained in § 3565.403 or it has been determined that it is in the best interest of the Agency and the lender to liquidate. For interest accrual purposes, interest will accrue for 90 calendar days after the date the liquidation plan is approved by the Agency. If within 20 calendar days of the Agency's receipt of the liquidation plan, the Agency fails to respond to the lender's proposal or advise the lender to make revisions to the plan that was submitted, the liquidation plan will be approved by default, and the 90 calendar day period for interest accrual will commence.
(b) In the event of a default involving a loan to an Indian tribe or tribal corporation made under this section which is secured by an interest in land within such tribe's reservation (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior), including a community in Alaska incorporated by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 461
et seq.
), the lender shall only pursue liquidation after offering to transfer the account to an eligible tribal member, the tribe, or the Indian housing authority serving the tribe. If the lender subsequently proceeds to liquidate the account, the lender shall not sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of or alienate the property except to one of the entities described in the preceding sentence.
[67 FR 16971, Apr. 9, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 2932, Jan. 19, 2005]
§ 3565.453
Disposition of the property.
(a) Submission of the liquidation plan. The lender will, within 30 calendar days after a decision to liquidate, submit to the Agency in writing, its proposed detailed plan of liquidation. The Agency will inform the lender, in writing, whether the Agency concurs in the lender's liquidation plan. Should the Agency and the lender not agree on the liquidation plan, negotiations will take place between the Agency and the lender to resolve the disagreement. When the liquidation plan is approved by the Agency, the
lender will proceed expeditiously with liquidation. The liquidation plan submitted to the Agency by the lender shall include:
(1) Satisfactory proof of the lender's ownership of the guaranteed loan promissory note and related security instruments.
(2) A copy of the payment ledger or equivalent which reflects the current loan balance and accrued interest to date and the method of computing the interest.
(3) A full and complete list of all collateral including any personal and corporate guarantees.
(4) The recommended liquidation methods for making the maximum collection possible on the indebtedness and the justification for such methods, including recommended actions for:
(i) Obtaining an appraisal of the collateral;
(ii) Acquiring and disposing of all collateral;
(iii) Collecting from guarantors;
(iv) Setting the proposed date of foreclosure; and
(v) Setting the proposed date of liquidation.
(5) Necessary steps for protection of the tenants and preservation of the collateral.
(6) Copies of the borrower's latest available financial statements.
(7) Copies of the guarantor's latest available financial statements.
(8) An itemized list of estimated liquidation expenses expected to be incurred along with justification for each expense.
(9) A schedule to periodically report to the Agency on the progress of liquidation.
(10) Estimated protective advance amounts with justification.
(11) Proposed protective bid amounts on collateral to be sold at auction and a breakdown to show how the amounts were determined.
(12) If a voluntary conveyance is considered, the proposed amount to be credited to the guaranteed debt.
(13) Any legal opinions supporting the decision to liquidate.
(14) The lender will obtain a complete appraisal report on all collateral securing the loan, which will reflect the fair market value and potential liquidation value, and an examination of the title on the collateral. In order to formulate a liquidation plan, which maximizes recovery, collateral must be evaluated for hazardous substances, petroleum products, or other environmental hazards, which may adversely impact the market value of the collateral.
(b) A transfer and assumption of the borrower's operation can be accomplished before or after the loan goes into liquidation. However, if the collateral has been purchased through foreclosure or the borrower has conveyed title to the lender, no transfer and assumption is permitted.
(c) A protective bid may be made by the lender, with prior Agency written approval, at a foreclosure sale to protect the lender's and the Agency's interest. The protective bid will not exceed the amount of the loan, including expenses of foreclosure, and should be based on the liquidation value considering estimated expenses for holding and reselling the property. These expenses include, but are not limited to, expenses for resale, interest accrual, length of weatherization, and prior liens.
(d) Filing an estimated loss claim. When the lender is conducting the liquidation and owns any or all of the guaranteed portion of the loan, the lender will file an estimated loss claim with the liquidation plan if the lender expects liquidation to exceed 90 calendar days. The estimated loss payment will be based on the outstanding loan amount minus the liquidation value of the collateral. For the purpose of reporting and loss claim computation, the loss claim will be promptly processed in accordance with applicable Agency regulations, as set forth in this section. The loss claim calculation will include 90 calendar days of interest accrual on the defaulted loan at the time the estimated loss claim is paid by the Agency. If the lender estimates that there will be no loss after considering the costs of liquidation, the lender submits an estimated loss claim of zero. Interest accrual will cease 90 calendar days after the date the liquidation plan is approved by the Agency.
(e) Property disposition. Once the liquidation plan has Agency approval, the
lender must make every effort to liquidate the property in a manner that will yield the highest market value consistent with the protections afforded to tenants in 7 CFR part 1944, subpart L or successor regulation.
(f) Accounting and reports. When the lender conducts liquidation, the lender will account for funds during the period of liquidation and provide the Agency with reports at least quarterly on the progress of liquidation, including disposition of collateral, resulting costs, and additional procedures necessary for successful completion of the liquidation.
(g) Transmitting payments and proceeds to the Agency. When the Agency is the Holder of a portion of the guaranteed loan, the lender will transmit to the Agency its pro rata share of any payments received from the borrower, liquidation, or elsewhere.
[70 FR 2932, Jan. 19, 2005]
§ 3565.454
[Reserved]
§ 3565.455
Alternative disposition methods.
The Agency, in its sole discretion, may choose to obtain an assignment of the loan from the lender or conveyance of title obtained by the lender through foreclosure or a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
(a)
Assignment.
In the case of an assignment of the loan, the assignment of the security instruments or the security must be in written and recordable form. Completion of the assignment will occur once the following transactions are completed to the Agency's satisfaction.
(1) Conveyance to the Agency of all the lender's rights and interests arising under the loan.
(2) Assignment to the Agency of all claims against the borrower or others arising out of the loan transactions, including:
(i) All collateral agreements affecting financing, construction, use or operation of the property; and
(ii) All insurance or surety bonds, or other guarantees, and all claims under them.
(3) Certification that the collateral has been evaluated for the presence of contamination from the release of hazardous substances, petroleum products or other environmental hazards which may adversely impact the market value of the property and the results of that evaluation.
(b)
Conveyance of title.
In the case of a conveyance of title to the property, the lender must inform the Agency in advance of how it plans to acquire title and a timetable for doing so. The Agency will accept the conveyance upon receipt of an assignment to the Agency of all claims of the lender against the property and assignment of the lender's rights to any operating funds and any reserves or escrows established for the maintenance of the property or the payment of property taxes and insurance.
§ 3565.456
Filing a claim.
Once the lender has disposed of the property or the Agency has agreed to accept an assignment of the loan or conveyance of title to the property, the lender may file a claim for the guaranteed portion of allowable losses. All claim amounts must be calculated in accordance with this subpart and be approved by the Agency.
§ 3565.457
Determination of claim amount.
In all liquidation cases, final settlement will be made with the lender after the collateral is liquidated, unless otherwise designated as a future recovery or after settlement and compromise of all parties has been completed.
(a)
Report of loss form.
An Agency approved form will be used for calculations of all estimated and final loss determinations. Estimated loss payments will only be paid by the Agency after it has approved a liquidation plan.
(b)
Estimated loss.
An estimated loss claim based on liquidation appraisal value will be prepared and submitted by the lender.
(1) The estimated loss payment shall be applied as of the date of such payment. The total amount of the loss payment paid by the Agency will be applied by the lender on the loan debt. Such application does not release the borrower from liability.
(2) The Government's written authorization is required for all protective advances in excess of $5,000. Protective advances include, but are not limited to, advances made for property taxes, annual assessments, ground rent, hazard or flood insurance premiums affecting the collateral, and other expenses necessary to preserve or protect the security. Attorney fees are not a protective advance. A protective advance claim will be paid only at the time of the final report of loss payment except in certain transfer and assumption situations with Agency approval.
(c)
Final loss.
Within 30 calendar days after liquidation of all collateral, except for certain unsecured personal or corporate guarantees (as provided for in this section) is completed, a final report of loss on a form approved by the Agency must be prepared and submitted by the lender to the Agency. Before approval by the Agency of any final loss report, the lender must account for all funds during the period of liquidation, disposition of the collateral, all costs incurred, and any other information necessary for the successful completion of liquidation. Upon receipt of the final accounting and report of loss, the Agency may audit all applicable documentation to determine the final loss. The lender will make its records available and otherwise assist the Agency in making any investigation. The documentation accompanying the report of loss must support the amounts shown on the report of loss form.
(1) A determination must be made regarding the collectability of unsecured personal and corporate guarantees. If reasonably possible, such guarantees should be promptly collected prior to completion of the final loss report. However, in the event that collection from the guarantors appears unlikely or will require a prolonged period of time, the report of loss will be filed when all other collateral has been liquidated, and unsecured personal or corporate guarantees will be treated as a future recovery with the net proceeds to be shared on a pro rata basis by the lender and the Agency.
(2) The lender must document that all of the collateral has been accounted for and properly liquidated and that liquidation proceeds have been properly accounted for and applied correctly to the loan.
(3) The lender will show a breakdown of any protective advance amount as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper and that payment was actually made.
(4) The lender will show a breakdown of liquidation expenses as to the payee, purpose of the expenditure, date paid, and evidence that the amount expended was proper and that payment was actually made. Liquidation expenses are recoverable only from collateral proceeds.
(5) Accrued interest will be supported by documentation as to how the amount was accrued.
(6) Loss payments will be paid by the Agency within 60 calendar days after the receipt of the final loss report and accounting of the collateral.
(7) Should there be a circumstance where the lender cannot or will not sign a final report of loss, the State Director may complete the final report of loss and submit it to the Finance Office without the lender's signature. Before this action can be taken, all collateral must be disposed of or accounted for; there must be no evidence of fraud, misrepresentation, or negligent servicing by the lender; and all efforts to obtain the cooperation of the lender must have been exhausted and documented.
(d)
Maximum guarantee payment.
The maximum guarantee payment will not exceed the amount of guarantee percentage as contained in the guarantee agreement (but in no event more than 90%) times the allowable loss amount.
(e)
Rent.
Any net rental or other income that has been received by the lender from the collateral will be applied on the guaranteed loan debt after paying operating expenses of the property.
(f)
Liquidation costs.
Liquidation costs will be deducted from the proceeds of the disposition of primary collateral. If changed circumstances after submission of the liquidation plan require a substantial revision of liquidation costs, the lender will procure the Agency's written concurrence prior to proceeding with the proposed changes.
(g)
Payment.
When the Agency finds the final report of loss to be proper in all respects, it will approve the form and proceed as follows:
(1) If the loss is greater than any estimated loss payment, the Agency will pay the additional amount owed by the Agency to the lender.
(2) If the loss is less than the estimated loss payment, the lender will reimburse the Agency for the overpayment.
(3) If the Agency determines that it is in the Government's best interest to take assignment of the loan and conduct liquidation, as stipulated in 42 U.S.C. 1490(i)(3), Assignment by Secretary, the Agency will pay the lender in accordance with the Loan Note Guarantee.
(h)
Date of loss.
The date of loss is the date on which the collateral will be liquidated in the liquidation plan, unless an alternative date is approved by the Agency. Where the Agency chooses to accept an assignment of the loan or conveyance of title, the date of loss will be the date on which the Agency accepts assignment of the loan or conveyance of title.
(i)
Allowable claim amount.
The allowable claim amount must be calculated by:
(1) Adding to the unpaid principal and interest on the date of loss, an amount approved by the Agency for payments made by the lender for amounts due and owning on the property, including:
(i) Property taxes and other protective advances as approved by the Agency;
(ii) Water and sewer charges and other special assessments that are liens prior to the guaranteed loan;
(iii) Insurance of the property; and
(iv) Reasonable liquidation expenses.
(2) And by deducting the following items:
(i) Any amount received by the lender on the account of the guaranteed loan after the date of default;
(ii) Any net income received by the lender from the secured property after the date of default; and
(iii) Any cash items retained by the lender, except any amount representing a balance of the guaranteed loan not advanced to the borrower. Any loan amount not advanced will be applied by the lender to reduce the outstanding principal on the loan.
(j)
Lender certification.
The lender must certify that all possibilities of collection have been exhausted and that all of the items specified in paragraph (c) of this section have been identified and reported to the Agency as a condition for payment of claim.
[70 FR 2933, Jan. 19, 2005, as amended at 76 FR 5, Jan. 3, 2011]
§ 3565.458
Withdrawal of claim.
If the lender provides timely written notice to the Agency of withdrawal of the claim, the guarantee will continue as if the default had not occurred if the borrower cures the default prior to foreclosure or prior to acceptance of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
§§ 3565.459-3565.499
[Reserved]
§ 3565.500
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.

# Subpart K—Agency Guaranteed Loans That Back Ginnie Mae Guaranteed Securities

# Source:
70 FR 2934, Jan. 19, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3565.501
Applicability.
The provisions of this subpart apply when Agency guaranteed loans are used to back Ginnie Mae securities. In instances where this subpart applies, the provisions of this subpart prevail over any other provisions of this part.
§ 3565.502
Incontestability.
In the case of loans that back Ginnie Mae securities or loans that are acquired by Ginnie Mae as a consequence of its guaranty, the Agency guarantee under this part is incontestable except that the guarantee may not be enforced by a lender who commits fraud or misrepresentation or by a lender
who had knowledge of the fraud or misrepresentation at the time such a lender acquired the guarantee or was assigned the loan.
§ 3565.503
Repurchase.
Lenders and security Holders must comply with Ginnie Mae requirements regarding the repurchase of loans from pools backing Ginnie Mae guaranteed securities.
§ 3565.504
Transfers.
(a) Loans and/or mortgage servicing on loans backing Ginnie Mae guaranteed securities may only be transferred to a Ginnie Mae issuer and may only be transferred with prior Ginnie Mae approval.
(b) Agency approval shall not be required for transfer of the servicing on the guaranteed mortgages to Ginnie Mae.
§ 3565.505
Liability.
(a) Ginnie Mae shall not be liable for the actions of the lender including, but not limited to, negligence, fraud, abuse, misrepresentation or misuse of funds, property condition, or violations of usury laws.
(b) Ginnie Mae's rights under the guarantee shall be fully enforceable notwithstanding the actions of the lender.
§§ 3565.506-3565.549
[Reserved]
§ 3565.550
OMB control number.
According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no party is required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0575-0174.
Pt. 3570

# PART 3570—COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Community Facilities Grant Program
Sec.
3570.51
General.
3570.52
Purpose.
3570.53
Definitions.
3570.54-3570.60
[Reserved]
3570.61
Eligibility for grant assistance.
3570.62
Use of grant funds.
3570.63
Grant limitations.
3570.64
Applications determined ineligible.
3570.65
Processing preapplications and applications.
3570.66
Determining the maximum grant assistance.
3570.67
Project selection priorities.
3570.68
Selection process.
3570.69
Environmental review requirements, intergovernmental review, and public notification.
3570.70
Other considerations.
3570.71
Strategic economic and community development.
3570.72-3570.74
[Reserved]
3570.75
Grantee contracts.
3570.76
Planning, bidding, contracting, and construction.
3570.77-3570.79
[Reserved]
3570.80
Grant closing and delivery of funds.
3570.81-3570.82
[Reserved]
3570.83
Audits.
3570.84
Grant servicing.
3570.85
Programmatic changes.
3570.86
[Reserved]
3570.87
Grant suspension, termination, and cancellation.
3570.88
Management assistance.
3570.89
[Reserved]
3570.90
Exception authority.
3570.91
Regulations.
3570.92
Grant agreement.
3570.93
Regional Commission grants.
3570.94-3570.99
[Reserved]
3570.100
OMB control number.
Subparts C-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Community Facilities Technical Assistance and Training Grants
3570.251
Purpose.
3570.252
Definitions and abbreviations.
3570.253
Compliance with Federal and State requirements.
3570.254
Source of funds.
3570.255
Matching funds.
3570.256
Allocation of funds.
3570.257
Statute and regulation references.
3570.258-3570.260
[Reserved]
3570.261
Environmental and intergovernmental review.
3570.262
Applicant eligibility requirements.
3570.263
Eligible project purposes.
3570.264
Ineligible project purposes.
3570.265-3570.266
[Reserved]
3570.267
Applications.
3570.268-3570.271
[Reserved]
3570.272
Grant processing.
3570.273
Scoring.
3570.274
Fund disbursement.
3570.275
Grant cancellation or major changes.
3570.276
Reporting.
3570.277
Audit or financial statement.
3570.278-3570.280
[Reserved]
3570.281
Grant servicing.
3570.282
[Reserved]
3570.283
Exception authority.
3570.284
Review or appeal rights.
3570.285-3570.299
[Reserved]
3570.300
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989.

# Source:
62 FR 16469, Apr. 7, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Community Facilities Grant Program

# Source:
64 FR 32388, June 17, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3570.51
General.
(a) This subpart contains Rural Housing Service (RHS) policies and authorizations and establishes procedures for making essential Community Facilities Grants (CFG) authorized under section 306(a)(19) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(19)).
(b) Funds allocated for use in accordance with this subpart are also to be considered for use by federally recognized Indian tribes within a State regardless of whether State development strategies include Indian reservations within the State's boundaries. Indian tribes must have equal opportunity along with other rural residents to participate in the benefits of this program.
(c) Federal statutes provide for extending RHS financial assistance without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, and marital or familial status. To file a complaint, write the Secretary of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington DC 20250, or call 1-800-245-6340 (voice) or (202) 730-1127 (TDD). Persons with disabilities who require alternative means for communication of program information (Braille, large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET Center at (202) 720-2600 (voice and TDD).
(d) Any processing or servicing activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized assistance to Agency employees, members of their families, close relatives, or business or close personal associates is subject to the provisions of 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D. Applications for assistance are required to identify any relationship or association with an RHS employee.
(e) Copies of all forms referenced in this subpart are available in the Agency's National Office or any Rural Development field office.
(f) An outstanding judgment obtained against an applicant by the United States in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. Grant funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment.
(g) Grants made under this subpart will be administered under, and are subject to, 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, as appropriate.
(h) The income data used to determine median household income must be that which accurately reflects the income of the population to be served by the proposed facility. The median household income of the service area and the nonmetropolitan median household income for the State will be determined using 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If there is reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the median household income within the area to be served, this will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or RD may obtain, additional information regarding such median household income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, State, or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source.
(i) CFG funds can be used for up to 75 percent of the cost to develop the facility, notwithstanding that other contributions may be from other Federal sources.
(j) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards at 2 CFR part 200. In 2 CFR part 400.1, the Department adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200,
as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as the Department's policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards. As a result, this regulation contains references to 2 CFR part 200 as it has regulatory effect for the Department's programs and activities.
[64 FR 32388, June 17, 1999, as amended at 79 FR 76012, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 9912, Feb. 24, 2015; 89 FR 96860, Dec. 6, 2024]
§ 3570.52
Purpose.
The purpose of CFG program is to assist in the development of essential community facilities in rural areas. The Agency will authorize grant funds on a graduated basis. Eligible applicants located in smaller communities with lower populations and lower median household incomes may receive a higher percentage of grant funds. The amount of CFG funds provided for a facility shall not exceed 75 percent of the cost of developing the facility.
§ 3570.53
Definitions.
Agency.
The Rural Housing Service (RHS), an agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or a successor agency.
Approval official.
An official who has been delegated loan or grant approval authorities within applicable programs, subject to certain dollar limitations.
CF.
Community Facilities.
CFG.
Community Facilities Grant.
Essential community facilities.
Those public improvements requisite to the beneficial and orderly development of a community that is operated on a nonprofit basis. (See § 3570.62(a)(1)). An essential community facility must:
(1) Serve a function customarily provided by a local unit of government;
(2) Be a public improvement needed for the orderly development of a rural community;
(3) Not include private affairs or commercial or business undertakings (except for limited authority for industrial parks) unless it is a minor part of the total facility;
(4) Be within the area of jurisdiction or operation for the public bodies eligible to receive assistance or a similar local rural service area of a not-for-profit corporation; and
(5) Be located in a rural area.
Facility.
The physical structure financed by the Agency or the resulting service provided to rural residents.
Grantee.
An entity with whom the Agency has entered into a grant agreement under this program.
Instructions.
Agency internal procedures available in any Rural Development office and variously referred to as Rural Development Instructions, RD Instructions.
Minor part.
No more than 15 percent of the total floor space of the proposed facility.
Nonprofit corporations.
Any corporation that is not organized or maintained for the making of a profit and that meets the eligibility requirements for RHS financial assistance in accordance with § 3570.61(a)(2).
Processing office.
The office designated by the State program official to accept and process applications for CF projects.
Project cost.
The cost of completing the proposed facility. (Facilities previously constructed will not be considered in determining project costs.) Total project cost will include only those costs eligible for CFG assistance.
Poverty line.
The level of income for a family of four as defined by section 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)).
Public body.
Any State, county, city, township, incorporated town or village, borough, authority, district, economic development authority, or federally recognized Indian tribe in rural areas.
Reasonable rates and terms.
The rates and terms customarily charged public and nonprofit type borrowers in similar circumstances in the ordinary course of business and subject to Agency review.
RHS.
The Rural Housing Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture, or a successor agency.
Rural and rural area.
The terms “rural” and “rural area” mean a city, town, or unincorporated area that has a population of 20,000 inhabitants or less and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). The population
figures are obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census).
Rural Development.
A mission area within USDA which includes Rural Housing Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Rural Business-Cooperative Service.
RUS.
The Rural Utilities Service, an agency of USDA or a successor agency.
Service area.
The area reasonably expected to be served by the facility.
State.
The term “State” means each of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
State Director.
The term “State Director” means, with respect to a State, the Director of the Rural Development State Office.
State nonmetropolitan median household income.
The median household income of the State's nonmetropolitan counties and portions of metropolitan counties outside of cities, towns or places of 50,000 or more population.
State strategic plan.
A plan developed by each State for Rural Development initiatives and the type of assistance required. Plans shall identify goals, methods, and benchmarks for measuring success.
[64 FR 32388, June 17, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 65519, Nov. 15, 2004; 80 FR 9912, Feb. 24, 2015; 87 FR 38644, June 29, 2022]
§§ 3570.54-3570.60
[Reserved]
§ 3570.61
Eligibility for grant assistance.
The essential community facility must primarily serve rural areas, be located in a rural area, and the median household income of the population to be served by the proposed facility must be below the higher of the poverty line or the eligible percentage (60, 70, 80, or 90) of the State nonmetropolitan median household income (see § 3570.63(b)).
(a)
Eligible applicant.
An applicant must be a:
(1) Public body, such as a municipality, county, district, authority, or other political subdivision of a State;
(2) Nonprofit corporation or association. Applicants, other than nonprofit utility applicants, must have significant ties with the local rural community. Such ties are necessary to ensure to the greatest extent possible that a facility under private control will carry out a public purpose and continue to primarily serve rural areas. Ties may be evidenced by items such as:
(i) Association with, or controlled by, a local public body or bodies, or broadly based ownership and control by members of the community; or
(ii) Substantial public funding through taxes, revenue bonds, or other local government sources or substantial voluntary community funding, such as would be obtained through a community-wide funding campaign.
(3) Federally recognized Indian tribe in a rural area.
(b)
Eligible facilities.
Essential community facilities must be:
(1) Located in rural areas, except for utility-type services, such as telecommunications or hydroelectric, serving both rural and non-rural areas. In such cases, RHS funds may be used to finance only that portion serving rural areas, regardless of facility location.
(2) Necessary for orderly community development and consistent with the State Strategic Plan.
(c)
Credit elsewhere.
The approval official must determine that the applicant is unable to finance the proposed project from its own resources, or through commercial credit at reasonable rates and terms, or other funding sources without grant assistance under this subpart. The applicant must certify to such status in writing.
(d)
Economic feasibility.
All projects financed under the provisions of this section must be based on satisfactory sources of revenues as outlined in 7 CFR 1942.17(h) and 1942.116. The amount of CFG assistance must be the minimum amount sufficient for feasibility which will provide for facility operation and maintenance, reasonable reserves, and debt repayment. The applicant's available excess funds must be used to supplement eligible project costs.
(e)
Legal authority and responsibility.
Each applicant must have, or will obtain, prior to the grant award, the legal authority necessary to own, construct, operate, and maintain the proposed facility. The applicant shall be responsible for operating, maintaining, and managing the facility and providing for its continued availability and use at reasonable rates and terms. This responsibility shall be the applicant's even though the facility may be operated, maintained, or managed by a third party under contract or management agreement. If an applicant does not have the authority to borrow funds, but owns, operates, and maintains the facility, the applicant is eligible for CFG funds.
(f)
Facilities for public use.
All facilities shall be for the benefit of the public at large without discrimination as to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, and marital or familial status.
§ 3570.62
Use of grant funds.
Grants of up to 75 percent of the cost of developing essential community facilities may be used to supplement financial assistance authorized in accordance with 7 CFR parts 1942, subparts A and C, and 3575, subpart A. Eligible CFG purposes are those listed in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section. Funding for the balance of the project may consist of other CF financial assistance, applicant contributions, or loans and grants from other sources. CFGs may be used to:
(a) Construct, enlarge, extend, or otherwise improve essential community facilities providing essential service primarily to rural residents and rural businesses. Rural businesses include facilities such as educational and other publicly owned facilities.
(1) “Essential community facilities” are those public improvements requisite to the beneficial and orderly development of a community operated on a nonprofit basis including, but not limited to:
(i) Fire, rescue, and public safety;
(ii) Health services;
(iii) Community, social, or cultural services;
(iv) Transportation facilities such as streets, roads, and bridges;
(v) Hydroelectric generating facilities and related connecting systems and appurtenances, when not eligible for RUS financing;
(vi) Telecommunications equipment as it relates to medical and educational telecommunications links;
(vii) Supplemental and supporting structures for other rural electrification or telephone systems (including facilities such as headquarters and office buildings, storage facilities, and maintenance shops) when not eligible for RUS financing;
(viii) Natural gas distribution systems; and
(ix) Industrial park sites, but only to the extent of land acquisition and necessary site preparation, including access ways and utility extensions to and throughout the site. Funds may not be used in connection with industrial parks to finance on-site utility systems, or business and industrial buildings.
(2) “Otherwise improve” includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(i) The purchase of major equipment (such as solid waste collection trucks, telecommunication equipment, necessary maintenance equipment, fire service equipment, X-ray machines) which will in themselves provide an essential service to rural residents; and
(ii) The purchase of existing facilities when it is necessary either to improve or to prevent a loss of service.
(iii) A borrower is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this subpart to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
(b) Construct or relocate public buildings, roads, bridges, fences, or utilities and to make other public improvements necessary to the successful operation or protection of facilities authorized in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Relocate private buildings, roads, bridges, fences, or utilities, and other private improvements necessary to the successful operation or protection of facilities authorized in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) Pay the following expenses, but only when such expenses are a necessary part of a project to finance facilities authorized in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section:
(1) Reasonable fees and costs such as legal, engineering, architectural, fiscal advisory, recording, environmental impact analyses, archeological surveys and possible salvage or other mitigation measures, planning, establishing or acquiring rights.
(2) Costs of acquiring interest in land; rights, such as water rights, leases, permits, and rights-of-way; and other evidence of land or water control necessary for development of the facility.
(3) Purchasing or renting equipment necessary to install, maintain, extend, protect, operate, or utilize facilities.
(4) Obligations for construction incurred before grant approval. Construction work should not be started and obligations for such work or materials should not be incurred before the grant is approved. However, if there are compelling reasons for proceeding with construction before grant approval, applicants may request Agency approval to pay such obligations. Such requests may be approved if the Agency determines that:
(i) Compelling reasons exist for incurring obligations before grant approval;
(ii) The obligations will be incurred for authorized grant purposes;
(iii) Contract documents have been approved by the Agency;
(iv) All environmental requirements applicable to the Agency and the applicant have been met; and
(v) The applicant has the legal authority to incur the obligations at the time proposed, and payment of the debts will remove any basis for any mechanic's, material, or other liens that may attach to the security property.
The Agency may authorize payment of such obligations at the time of grant closing. The Agency's authorization to pay such obligations, however, is on the condition that it is not committed to make the grant; it assumes no responsibility for any obligations incurred by the applicant; and the applicant must subsequently meet all grant approval requirements. The applicant's request and the Agency's authorization for paying such obligations shall be in writing.
[64 FR 32388, June 17, 1999, as amended at 85 FR 57084, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 3570.63
Grant limitations.
(a) Grant funds may not be used to:
(1) Pay initial operating expenses or annual recurring costs, including purchases or rentals that are generally considered to be operating and maintenance expenses (unless a CF loan is part of the funding package);
(2) Construct or repair electric generating plants, electric transmission lines, or gas distribution lines to provide services for commercial sale;
(3) Refinance existing indebtedness;
(4) Pay interest;
(5) Pay for facilities located in nonrural areas, except as noted in § 3570.61(b)(1).
(6) Pay any costs of a project when the median household income of the population to be served by the proposed facility is above the higher of the poverty line or eligible percent (60, 70, 80, or 90) of the State nonmetropolitan median household income (see § 3570.63(b));
(7) Pay project costs when other loan funding for the project is not at reasonable rates and terms;
(8) Pay an amount greater than 75 percent of the cost to develop the facility;
(9) Pay costs to construct facilities to be used for commercial rental unless it is a minor part of the total facility;
(10) Construct facilities primarily for the purpose of housing State, Federal, or quasi-Federal agencies; and
(11) Pay for any purposes restricted by 7 CFR 1942.17(d)(2).
(b) Grant assistance will be provided on a graduated scale with smaller communities with the lowest median household incomes being eligible for projects with a higher proportion of grant funds. Grant assistance is limited to the following percentages of eligible project costs:
(1) 75 percent when the proposed project is:
(i) Located in a rural community having a population of 5,000 or less; and
(ii) The median household income of the population to be served by the proposed facility is below the higher of the poverty line or 60 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income.
(2) 55 percent when the proposed project is:
(i) Located in a rural community having a population of 12,000 or less; and
(ii) The median household income of the population to be served by the proposed facility is below the higher of the poverty line or 70 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income.
(3) 35 percent when the proposed project is:
(i) Located in a rural community having a population of 20,000 or less; and
(ii) The median household income of the population to be served by the proposed facility is below the higher of the poverty line or 80 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income.
(4) 15 percent when the proposed project is:
(i) Located in a rural community having a population of 50,000 or less; and
(ii) The median household income of the population to be served by the proposed facility is below the higher of the poverty line or 90 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income.
(5) 60 percent when the proposed project is:
(i) Located in a rural community having a population of 20,000 or less; and
(ii) The median household income of the population to be served by the proposed facility is below the higher of the poverty line or 90 percent of the State non-metropolitan median household income. The 60 percent grants are only available to communities impacted by a disaster that has resulted in a loss of 60 percent of the community's population and is located in a rural community designated as a major disaster area by the President.
(6) Grant assistance cannot exceed the higher of the applicable percentages contained in this section which the applicant is eligible to receive and may be further limited due to availability of funds or by the maximum grant assistance allowable determined in accordance with § 3570.66.
[64 FR 32388, June 17, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 14173, Mar. 17, 2008]
§ 3570.64
Applications determined ineligible.
If, at any time, an application is determined ineligible, the processing office will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons. The applicant will be advised that it may appeal the decision. (See 7 CFR part 11.)
§ 3570.65
Processing preapplications and applications.
For combination proposals for loan and grant funds, only one preapplication package and one application package should be prepared and submitted. Preapplications and applications for grants will be developed in accordance with applicable portions of 7 CFR 1942.2, 1942.104, and 3575.52.
(a)
Preapplications.
Applicants will file an original and one copy of “Application for Federal Assistance (For Construction),” with the appropriate Agency office. This form is available in all Agency offices. The preapplication and supporting documentation are used to determine applicant eligibility and priority for funding.
(1) All preapplications shall be accompanied by:
(i) Evidence of applicant's legal existence and authority; and
(ii) Appropriate clearinghouse agency comments.
(b)
Application processing.
Upon notification on “Notice of Preapplication Review Action” that the applicant is eligible for CFG funding, the applicant will be provided forms and instructions for filing a complete application. The forms required for a complete application, including the following, will be submitted to the processing office by the applicant:
(1) Updated “Application for Federal Assistance (For Construction).”
(2) Financial feasibility report.
(c)
Discontinuing the processing of the application.
If the applicant fails to submit the application and related material by the date shown on “Notice of
Preapplication Review Action” (normally 60 days from the date of this form), the Agency will discontinue consideration of the application.
§ 3570.66
Determining the maximum grant assistance.
(a)
Responsibility.
State Directors are responsible for determining the applicant's eligibility for grant assistance.
(b)
Maximum grant assistance.
Grant assistance cannot exceed the lower of:
(1) Qualifying percentage of eligible project cost determined in accordance with § 3570.63(b);
(2) Minimum amount sufficient to provide for economic feasibility as determined in accordance with § 3570.61(d); or
(3) Either 50 percent of the annual State allocation or $50,000, whichever is greater, unless an exception is made by the RHS Administrator in accordance with § 3570.90.
§ 3570.67
Project selection priorities.
Applications are scored on a priority basis. Points will be distributed as follows:
(a)
Population priorities.
The proposed project is located in a rural community having a population of:
(1) 5,000 or less—30 points;
(2) Between 5,001 and 12,000, inclusive—20 points;
(3) Between 12,001 and 20,000, inclusive—10 points; or
(4) Between 20,001 and 50,000, inclusive, when applicable—5 points.
(b)
Income priorities.
The median household income of the population to be served by the proposed project is below the higher of the poverty line or:
(1) 60 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income—30 points;
(2) 70 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income—20 points;
(3) 80 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income—10 points; or
(4) 90 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income—5 points.
(c)
Other priorities.
Points will be assigned for one or more of the following initiatives:
(1) Project is consistent with, and is reflected in, the State Strategic Plan—10 points;
(2) Project is for health care—10 points; or
(3) Project is for public safety—10 points.
(d)
Discretionary.
(1) The State Director may assign up to 15 points to a project in addition to those that may be scored under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. These points are to address unforeseen exigencies or emergencies, such as the loss of a community facility due to an accident or natural disaster or the loss of joint financing if Agency funds are not committed in a timely fashion. In addition, the points will be awarded to projects benefiting from the leveraging of funds in order to improve compatibility and coordination between the Agency and other agencies' selection systems and for those projects that are the most cost effective.
(2) In selecting projects for funding at the National Office level, additional points will be awarded based on the priority assigned to the project by the State Office. These points will be awarded in the manner shown below. Only the three highest priority projects for a State will be awarded points. The Administrator may assign up to 30 additional points to account for geographic distribution of funds, emergency conditions caused by economic problems, natural disasters, or leveraging of funds.
Priority
Points
1
5
2
3
3
1
§ 3570.68
Selection process.
Each request for grant assistance will be carefully scored and prioritized to determine which projects should be selected for further development and funding.
(a)
Selection of applications for further processing.
The approval official will, subject to paragraph (b) of this section, authorize grants for those eligible preapplications with the highest priority score. When selecting projects, the following circumstances must be considered:
(1) Scoring of project and scores of other applications on hand;
(2) Funds available in the State allocation; and
(3) If other Community Facilities financial assistance is needed for the project, the availability of other funding sources.
(b)
Lower scoring projects.
(1) In cases when preliminary cost estimates indicate that an eligible, high-scoring application is not feasible, or would require grant assistance exceeding 50 percent of a State's current annual allocation, or an amount greater than that remaining in the State's allocation, the approval official may instead select the next lower-scoring application for further processing provided the high-scoring applicant is notified of this action and given an opportunity to review the proposal and resubmit it prior to selection of the next application.
(2) If it is found that there is no effective way to reduce costs, the approval official, after consultation with the applicant, may request an additional allocation of funds from the National office.
§ 3570.69
Environmental review requirements, intergovernmental review, and public notification.
Grants awarded under this subpart, including grant-only awards, must be in compliance with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, to the intergovernmental review requirements of 7 CFR 3015, subpart V and RD Instruction 1970-I, “Intergovernmental Review,” and the public information process in 7 CFR 1942.17(j)(9).
[81 FR 11050, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 3570.70
Other considerations.
Each application must contain the comments, necessary certifications, and recommendations of appropriate Federal or State regulatory or other agency or institution having expertise in the planning, operation, and management of similar facilities as required by 7 CFR parts 1942, subparts A and C, and 3575, subpart A. Proposals for facilities financed in whole or in part with Agency funds will be coordinated with appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies as required by the following:
(a) Grants under this subpart are subject to the provisions of 7 CFR 1942.17(k) which include title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Americans with Disability Act of 1990, and the regulations issued thereto. Certain housing-related projects, such as nursing homes, group homes, or assisted-living facilities, must comply with the requirements of the Fair Housing Act.
(b) Governmentwide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement) and requirements for drug-free workplace are applicable to CFG grants and grantees. See 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by USDA through 2 CFR part 417, and RD Instruction 1940-M for further guidance.
(c) Restrictions on lobbying. Grantees must comply with the lobbying restrictions set forth in 2 CFR part 418 subpart A.
(d) Civil Rights Impact Analysis, RD Instruction 2006-P (available in any Rural Development office), and “Civil Rights Impact Analysis Certification.”
[62 FR 16469, Apr. 7, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 76013, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3570.71
Strategic economic and community development.
Applicants with projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans are encouraged to review and consider 7 CFR part 1980, subpart K, which contains provisions for providing priority to projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans on a multi-jurisdictional and multi-sectoral basis.
[85 FR 59395, Sept. 22, 2020]
§§ 3570.72-3570.74
[Reserved]
§ 3570.75
Grantee contracts.
The requirements of 7 CFR 1942.4, 1942.17(e), 1942.17(l), 1942.118, and 1942.119 will be applicable when agreements between grantees and third parties are involved.
§ 3570.76
Planning, bidding, contracting, and construction.
Planning, bidding, contracting, and construction will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR 1942.9, 1942.18, and 1942.126.
§§ 3570.77-3570.79
[Reserved]
§ 3570.80
Grant closing and delivery of funds.
(a) “Community Facilities Grant Agreement” will be used as the grant agreement between the Agency and the grantee and will be signed by the grantee before grant funds are advanced.
(b) Approval officials may require recipients to record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property has been acquired or improved with Federal grant funds and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property as provided by 2 CFR part 200, as subsequently modified.
(c) Approval officials may require recipients to record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property has been acquired or improved with Federal grant funds and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property as provided by 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 as subsequently modified.
(d) Grant funds will not be disbursed until they are actually needed by the recipient and all borrower or other funds are expended, except when:
(1) Interim financing of the total estimated amount of loan funds needed during construction is arranged,
(2) All interim funds have been disbursed, and
(3) Agency grant funds are needed before RHS or other loans can be closed.
(e) If grant funds are available from other agencies and are transferred for disbursement by RHS, these grant funds will be disbursed in accordance with the agreement governing such other agencies' participation in the project.
[62 FR 16469, Apr. 7, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 76013, Dec. 19, 2014; 89 FR 96860, Dec. 6, 2024]
§§ 3570.81-3570.82
[Reserved]
§ 3570.83
Audits.
(a) An audit will be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 subpart F, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, except as provided in this section. The audit requirements apply only to the years in which grant funds are expended.
(b) Grantees who are not required to submit an audit report will, within 60 days following the end of the fiscal year in which any grant funds were expended, furnish RHS with annual financial statements, consisting of a verification of the organization's balance sheet and statement of income and expense report signed by an appropriate official of the organization or other documentation as determined appropriate by the approval official.
[62 FR 16469, Apr. 7, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 76013, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3570.84
Grant servicing.
Grants will be serviced in accordance with RD Instructions 1951-E and 1951-O and 2 CFR part 200 as applicable.
[79 FR 76013, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3570.85
Programmatic changes.
The grantee shall obtain prior Agency approval for any change to the objectives of the approved project. (For construction projects, a material change in approved space utilization or functional layout shall be considered such a change.) Failure to obtain prior approval of changes to the approved project or budget may result in suspension, refund, or termination of grant funds.
§ 3570.86
[Reserved]
§ 3570.87
Grant suspension, termination, and cancellation.
Grants may be suspended or terminated for cause or convenience in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, as applicable.
[79 FR 76013, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3570.88
Management assistance.
Grant recipients will be supervised to the extent necessary to ensure that facilities are constructed in accordance with approved plans and specifications and to ensure that funds are expended for approved purposes.
§ 3570.89
[Reserved]
§ 3570.90
Exception authority.
An RHS official may request, and the Administrator or designee may make, in individual cases, an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart or address any omission of this subpart if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision, or failure to take action in the case of an omission, would adversely affect the Government's interest.
§ 3570.91
Regulations.
Grants under this part will be in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, as applicable, and any conflicts between those parts and this part will be resolved in favor of applicable 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
[79 FR 76013, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3570.92
Grant agreement.
Form RD 3570-3 is a Grant Agreement which contains the procedures for making and servicing grants made under this part. Any property acquired or improved with CFG funds may have use and disposition conditions which apply to the property as provided by 2 CFR 200 as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400 in effect at this time and as may be subsequently modified.
[79 FR 76013, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 3570.93
Regional Commission grants.
(a) Grants are sometimes made by Federal Regional Commissions (designated under Title V of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965) for projects eligible for RHS assistance. RHS has agreed to administer such funds in a manner similar to administering RHS assistance.
(b) The transfer of funds from a Federal Regional Commission to RHS will be based on specific applications determined to be eligible for an authorized purpose in accordance with the requirements of RHS and the Federal Regional Commission.
(c) The Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) is authorized under the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 to serve the Appalachian region. ARC grants are handled in accordance with the ARC Agreement which applies to all ARC grants administered by Rural Development. Therefore, a separate Project Management Agreement between RHS and ARC is not needed for each ARC grant.
(d) Grants by other Federal Regional Commissions are handled in accordance with a separate Project Management Agreement between the respective Federal Regional Commission and RHS for each Commission grant or class of grants administered by RHS.
(e) When the Agency has funds in the project, no charge will be made for administering Federal Regional Commission grant funds.
(f) When RHS has no loan or grant funds in the project, an administrative charge will be made pursuant to the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535).
§§ 3570.94-3570.99
[Reserved]
§ 3570.100
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB control number 0575-0173. You are not required to respond to this collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number.
Subparts C-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Community Facilities Technical Assistance and Training Grants

# Source:
81 FR 1866, Jan. 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3570.251
Purpose.
This subpart contains the provisions and procedures by which the Agency
will administer the Essential Community Facilities Technical Assistance and Training Program. The purpose of the program is to provide technical assistance and training with respect to essential community facilities programs. To meet this purpose, the Agency will make grants to public bodies and private nonprofit corporations, (such as States, counties, cities, townships, and incorporated towns and villages, boroughs, authorities, districts, and Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations) to provide associations Technical Assistance and/or training with respect to essential community facilities programs. The Technical Assistance and/or training will assist communities, Indian Tribes, and Nonprofit Corporations to identify and plan for community facility needs that exist in their area. Once those needs have been identified, the Grantee can assist in identifying public and private resources to finance those identified community facility needs.
§ 3570.252
Definitions and abbreviations.
The definitions and abbreviations in § 3570.53 apply to this subpart unless otherwise provided. In addition, these definitions and abbreviations are used in this subpart:
Actual capacity.
The demonstrated ability of the Technical Assistance Provider to develop the capacity of Ultimate Recipients in the areas of developing applications for the Community Facilities program, improving the management capabilities of their community facilities, and providing training.
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Rural Housing Service (RHS).
Applicant.
Public bodies and private nonprofit corporations, (such as States, counties, cities, townships, and incorporated towns and villages, boroughs, authorities, districts, and Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations) that has applied for, or intends to apply for, a Technical Assistance and Training Grant under this subpart. The applicant must be either a Technical Assistance Provider or an Ultimate Recipient.
Audit.
An examination of an organization's financial Statements by an independent Certified Public Accountant (CPA), for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the fairness with which the Statements present the financial position, results of operations, and changes in cash flows in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and for determining whether the Applicant or Ultimate Recipient of Federal government funding has complied with the applicable laws, regulations, and contract for those events reflected in the financial Statements. All audits must meet the requirements of 2 CFR 200.500-200.518.
Community ties.
The significant ties to the Rural Area that need to be demonstrated by a Nonprofit corporation who is an Ultimate Recipient, by either substantial public funding through taxes, revenue bonds or other local Government sources, and/or substantial voluntary community funding; and, a broadly-based ownership and control by members of the community. It can also be demonstrated by local membership and control characteristics.
CONACT.
The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926
et seq
).
Conflict of interest.
A situation in which a person or entity has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that make it difficult for the person or business to act impartially. Regarding use of both grant and matching funds, Federal procurement standards prohibit transactions that involve a real or apparent conflict of interest for owners, employees, officers, agents, or their immediate family members having a financial or other interest in the outcome of the Project; or that restrict open and free competition for unrestrained trade. Specifically, Project funds may not be used for services or goods going to, or coming from, a person or entity with a real or apparent Conflict of Interest, including, but not limited to, owner(s) and their immediate family members. An example of Conflict of Interest occurs when the Grantee's employees, board of directors, or the immediate family of either, have the appearance of a professional or personal financial interest in
the Applicant receiving the benefits or services of the grant.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
A widely accepted set of rules, conventions, standards and procedures for reporting financial information, as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.
Indian Tribe.
Any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) [43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
], which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Jurisdiction.
A unit of government or other entity with similar powers. Examples include, but are not limited to: City, county, district, special purpose district, township, town, borough, village, and State.
Letter of Conditions.
A legal document presented to the Applicant selected for funding that outlines all conditions that must be agreed to and accepted before final grant approval.
Low income.
A median household income (MHI) that does not exceed the State Non-Metropolitan Median Household Income (SNMHI) or the Poverty Line, whichever is higher.
Multi-jurisdictional.
Concerning two or more Jurisdictions.
Professional services.
Services provided by a person or entity having specialized knowledge and skills to plan, design, prepare procurement, construction, or other technical support documents, administer construction contracts, and/or other related services for a Project.
Project.
The Technical Assistance that an Applicant is currently planning as described in the Project description in the application, to be financed in whole or in part with Agency assistance.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture.
Technical Assistance.
A function such as supervision, oversight, training, or professional consultation related to an Essential Community Facility that is performed for the benefit of an Ultimate Recipient or proposed Ultimate Recipient, which is a problem solving activity, as determined by the Agency.
Technical Assistance Provider.
Grantee who will provide technical assistance to Ultimate Recipients.
Ultimate Recipient.
Entity receiving assistance from the Grantee. If a Nonprofit corporation is either applying for funding as an Ultimate Recipient or is benefitting from the TAT Grant as the Ultimate Recipient, it must demonstrate Community Ties to the Rural Area. These ties may be demonstrated by:
(1) Obtaining substantial public funding through taxes revenue bonds, or other local Government sources, and/or substantial voluntary community funding, or
(2) Having a broadly-based ownership and control by members of the community, or
(3) Demonstrating all of the following characteristics:
(i) Members of the organization are primarily from the local rural community,
(ii) Membership is open to all adults in the local rural community,
(iii) Members of the organization have ultimate control of the proposed community facility; and
(iv) The organization receives the majority of its funding from its members or their volunteer efforts. Public bodies and Indian Tribes that are applying for funding as Ultimate Recipients or are the benefitting from TAT grant funds as the Ultimate Recipient are not required to further demonstrate Community ties to the local Rural Areas.
[81 FR 1866, Jan. 14, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]
§ 3570.253
Compliance with Federal and State requirements.
(a)
Federal statutory requirements.
Applicants must comply with, all applicable Federal laws and Executive Order requirements including, but not limited to:
(1) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
(2) Civil Rights Act of 1964.
(3) The American with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990.
(4) Executive Order 12549 Debarment and Suspension and 2 CFR parts 180 and 417.
(5) Section 319 of Public Law 101-121 on Lobbying.
(6) Age Discrimination Act of 1975.
(7) Fair Housing Act of 1968.
(8) Executive Order 11246 Equal Employment Opportunity.
(9) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972.
(10) 2 CFR parts 200 and 400 “Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards”.
(b) State laws, local laws, regulatory commission regulations. Applicants must comply with all applicable state and local laws and regulatory commission regulations. If there are conflicts between this subpart and State or local laws or regulations, the provisions of this subpart will control.
§ 3570.254
Source of funds.
The Agency will reserve 5 percent of any funds annually appropriated to carry out each of the Essential Community Facilities grant, loan and loan guarantee programs unless otherwise noted in the annual Notice published in the
Federal Register.
TAT reserved grant funds not obligated by July 31 of each fiscal year will be used to fund Essential Community Facilities grant, loan, and/or loan guarantee programs.
§ 3570.255
Matching funds.
Any matching funds must comply with the requirements outlined at 2 CFR 200.306.
§ 3570.256
Allocation of funds.
The Agency will administer these grant funds and will award them on a competitive basis.
§ 3570.257
Statute and regulation references.
All references to statutes and regulations are to include any and all successor statutes and regulations.
§§ 3570.258-3570.260
[Reserved]
§ 3570.261
Environmental and intergovernmental review.
All grants awarded under this subpart are subject to the environmental requirements of 7 CFR part 1940, subpart G. Technical Assistance under this program is categorically excluded unless extraordinary circumstances exist.
§ 3570.262
Applicant eligibility requirements.
There are two types of Applicants. The applicant must be either a Technical Assistance Provider or an Ultimate Recipient, and must meet eligibility requirements before being considered for Agency assistance.
(a) Applicants applying as Technical Assistance Providers must:
(1) Be a public body or a private nonprofit corporation, (such as States, counties, cities, townships, and incorporated towns and villages, boroughs, authorities, districts, and Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations);
(2) Be legally established and located within one of the following:
(i) A State as defined § 3570.252; or
(ii) The District of Columbia; and
(3) Have the proven ability, background, experience (as evidenced by the organization's satisfactory completion of Project(s) similar to those proposed), legal authority and actual capacity to provide Technical Assistance and/or training to Ultimate Recipients as provided in § 3570.252. To meet the requirement of actual capacity, an Applicant must either:
(i) Have the necessary resources to provide Technical Assistance and/or training to associations in Rural Areas through its staff,
(ii) Be assisted by an affiliate or member organization which has such background and experience and which agrees, in writing, that it will provide the technical assistance, or
(iii) May contract with a nonaffiliated organization for not more than 49 percent of the awarded grant to provide the proposed technical assistance.
(4) Nonprofits applying as Technical Assistance Providers must be designated tax exempt by the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) Applicants applying as Ultimate Recipients must be:
(1) A public body,
(2) An Indian Tribe, or
(3) A Nonprofit corporation that demonstrates Community ties to the Rural Area by:
(i) Obtaining substantial public funding through taxes revenue bonds, or other local Government sources, and/or substantial voluntary community funding,
(ii) Having a broadly-based ownership and control by members of the community, or
(iii) Demonstrating all of the following characteristics:
(A) Members of the organization are primarily from the local rural community,
(B) Membership is open to all adults in the local rural community,
(C) Members of the organization have ultimate control of the proposed community facility; and
(D) The organization receives the majority of its funding from its members or their volunteer efforts.
§ 3570.263
Eligible project purposes.
(a) Grant funds and any matching funds may be used by Technical Assistance Providers to:
(1) Assist communities in identifying and planning for community facility needs;
(2) Identify resources to finance community facility needs from public and private sources;
(3) Prepare reports and surveys necessary to request financial assistance to develop community facilities;
(4) Prepare applications for Agency financial assistance;
(5) Improve the management, including financial management, related to the operation of community facilities; or
(6) Assist with other areas of need identified by the Secretary.
(b) Grant Funds and any matching funds may be used by Ultimate Recipients only to prepare reports and surveys necessary to request financial assistance to develop community facilities. Applicants applying as Ultimate Recipients will be limited to this purpose.
§ 3570.264
Ineligible project purposes.
Ineligible purposes for grant funds and any matching funds include, but are not limited to:
(a) Duplicate services, such as those previously performed by an association's consultant in developing a Project, including feasibility, design, Professional Services, and cost estimates prior to receiving the grant award.
(b) Purchase real estate or vehicles, improve or renovate office space, or repair and maintain privately owned property.
(c) Pay the costs for construction, improvement, rehabilitation, modification, or operation and maintenance of an Essential Community Facility.
(d) Procure applications for the Agency's community facilities or other loan or grant program. Grant funds cannot be used to generate new applications; however, as stated in § 3570.263(a)(4) funds can be used to assist with application preparation for Agency programs.
(e) Pay for other costs that are not allowed under 2 CFR part 200.
(f) Pay an outstanding judgment obtained by the U.S. in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded. An Applicant will be ineligible to receive a grant until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied.
(g) Intervene in Federal or adjudicatory proceedings.
(h) Fund political or lobbying activities.
(i) Conduct an income survey associated with developing a complete application for a potential Applicant.
(j) Pay for indirect or administrative costs in excess of 10% of the amount of grant.
(k) [Reserved]
(l) Provide assistance to an Ultimate Recipient, or a Project, that is not located in a Rural Area.
(m) Pay for expenses incurred more than three years after the date of the grant agreement.
(n) Provide assistance to a Project that primarily serves an area that is not considered Low Income.
(o) Fund a project where a Conflict of Interest exists.
[81 FR 1866, Jan. 14, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 27295, May 6, 2016]
§§ 3570.265-3570.266
[Reserved]
§ 3570.267
Applications.
(a)
Filing period.
The Agency will publish an annual notice in the
Federal Register
stating the filing period, where to file, and all other applicable information necessary to submit a complete application.
(b)
Application requirements.
To file an application, an organization must provide their Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) in accordance with 2 CFR part 25. Instructions for obtaining the UEI are available at
https://sam.gov/.
To file a complete application the following information must be submitted:
(1) “Application for Federal Assistance (For Non-Construction)
(2) “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs.”
(3) “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transaction.”
(4) “Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) Alternative 1—For Grantees Other Than Individuals.”
(5) “Certification Regarding Debarment.”
(6) Attachment regarding assistance provided to Agency Employees as required by RD Instruction 1900-D (1900.153(a)), as applicable.
(7) “Equal Opportunity Agreement.”
(8) “Assurance Agreement.”
(9) Indirect Cost Rate Agreement (if applicable, Applicant must include approved cost agreement rate schedule).
(10) Statement of Compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
(11) “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities” (include only if grant exceeds $100,000).
(c)
Supporting information.
All applications shall be accompanied by the following supporting information:
(1) For Nonprofit Corporations,
(i) Certified copies of current organizational documents including Certificate of Incorporation, bylaws, and Certificate of Good Standing,
(ii) Evidence of tax exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service if applying as a Technical Assistance Provider, and
(iii) Evidence of Community Ties to a Rural Area if a Nonprofit Corporation applying as an Ultimate Recipient.
(2) For applicants applying as a Technical Assistance Provider, a narrative of their experience in providing services similar to those proposed. The narrative will provide a brief description of successfully completed Projects including the need that was identified and objectives accomplished.
(3) Latest financial information to show the Applicant's financial capacity to carry out proposed work. A current Audit is preferred; however, Applicants may submit a balance sheet and an income Statement in lieu of an Audit report.
(4) Documentation of cash matching funds, if applicable.
(5) List of proposed services to be provided.
(6) For Applicants applying as Technical Assistance Providers who have not identified the Ultimate Recipients, a narrative explaining how they will select Ultimate Recipients to be assisted with grant funds.
(7) Estimated breakdown of costs (direct and indirect) including those to be funded by Grantee as well as matching funds and other sources. Sufficient detail will be provided to permit the Agency to determine if the costs are allowed, reasonable, and applicable.
(8) Evidence that a Financial Management System used to track Project costs is in place or proposed.
(9) Documentation relevant to scoring criteria including, but not limited to:
(i) List of Ultimate Recipients to be served and the county, State or States where assistance will be provided. Identify Ultimate Recipients by name, or other characteristics such as size, income, location, and provide MHI and population data.
(ii) Description of type of Technical Assistance and/or training to be provided and the tasks to be contracted.
(iii) Description of how the Project will be evaluated, clearly stated goals, and the method proposed to measure results.
(iv) Documentation of the need for the proposed service. Provide detailed
explanation of how the proposed service differs from other similar services being provided in same area.
(v) Personnel on staff or to be contracted to provide services and their experience with similar Projects.
(vi) Statement indicating the number of months it will take to complete the Project or service, and
(vii) Documentation on cost effectiveness of Project. Provide the cost per Ultimate Recipient to be served or the proposed cost of personnel to provide assistance.
[81 FR 1866, Jan. 14, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]
§§ 3570.268-3570.271
[Reserved]
§ 3570.272
Grant processing.
(a)-(c) [Reserved]
(d) Applications that are not selected for funding due to low rating will be notified by the Agency. Applications that cannot be funded in the fiscal year that the application was received will not be retained for consideration in the following fiscal year.
(e) Applicants selected for funding will need to accept the conditions set forth in the Letter of Conditions, meet all such conditions, and complete a grant agreement which outlines the terms and conditions of the grant award before grant funds will be disbursed.
§ 3570.273
Scoring.
The Agency will score each application using the following scoring factors unless otherwise provided in an annual Notice in the
Federal Register
:
(a)
Experience:
Applicant Experience at developing and implementing successful technical assistance and/or training programs:
(1) More than 10 years—40 points.
(2) More than 5 years to 10 years—25 points.
(3) 3 to 5 years—10 points.
(b)
No prior grants received:
(1) Applicant has never received a TAT Grant—5 points.
(2) [Reserved]
(c)
Population:
The average population of proposed area(s) to be served:
(1) 2,500 or less—15 points.
(2) 2,501 to 5,000—10 points.
(3) 5,001 to 10,000—5 points.
(d)
MHI:
The average median household income (MHI) of proposed area to be served is below the higher of the poverty line or:
(1) 60 percent of the State's MHI—15 points.
(2) 70 percent of the State MHI—10 points.
(3) 90 percent of the State's MHI—5 points.
(e)
Multi-jurisdictional:
The proposed technical assistance or training project a part of a Multi-jurisdictional project comprised of:
(1) More than 10 jurisdictions—15 points.
(2) More than 5 to 10 jurisdictions—10 points.
(3) 3 to 5 jurisdictions—5 points.
(f)
Soundness of approach:
Up to 10 points.
(1) Needs assessment: The problem/issue being addressed is clearly defined, supported by data, and addresses the needs;
(2) Goals
objectives are clearly defined, tied to the need as defined in the work plan, and are measurable;
(3) Work plan clearly articulates a well thought out approach to accomplishing objectives
clearly identifies who will be served by the project;
(4) The proposed activities are needed in order for a complete Community Facilities loan and/or grant application.
(g)
Matching funds:
(1) There is evidence of the commitment of other cash funds of 20% of the total project costs 10 points.
(2) There is evidence of the commitment of other cash funds of 10% of the total project costs 5 points.
(h)
State Director discretionary points.
The State Director may award up to 10 discretionary points for the highest priority project in each state, up to 7 points for the second highest priority project in each state and up to 5 points for the third highest priority project that address unforeseen exigencies or emergencies, such as the loss of a community facility due to an accident or natural disaster, or other areas of need in their particular state. The State Director will place written documentation in the project file each time the State Director assigns these points—Up to 10 points.
(i)
Administrator discretionary points.
The Administrator may award up to 20 discretionary points for projects to address geographic distribution of funds, emergency conditions caused by economic problems, natural disasters and other initiatives identified by the Secretary—Up to 20 points.
§ 3570.274
Fund disbursement.
The Agency will make payments under this agreement in accordance with 2 CFR 200.305. All requests for advances or reimbursements must be in compliance with 2 CFR 200.306 and include any required matching fund usage.
§ 3570.275
Grant cancellation or major changes.
Any change in the scope of the Project, budget adjustments of more than 10 percent of the total budget, and any other significant change in the Project must be in compliance with 2 CFR 200.308 and 200.339. The changes must be requested in writing and approved by the Agency in writing. Any change not approved may be cause for termination of the grant.
§ 3570.276
Reporting.
(a) The Grantee must provide periodic reports as required by the Agency. A financial status report, SF 425 “Federal Financial Report,”, and a project performance report will be required as provided in the grant agreement. The financial status report must show how grant funds and matching funds have been used to date. A final report may serve as the last report. Grantees shall constantly monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met and projected goals by time periods are being accomplished. The Project performance reports shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) A description of the activities that the funds reflected in the financial status report were used for;
(2) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives for that period;
(3) Reasons why established objectives were not met, if applicable;
(4) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will affect attainment of overall program objectives, prevent meeting time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular objectives during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accomplished by a Statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation;
(5) Objectives and timetables established for the next reporting period;
(6) A summary of the race, sex, and national origin of the Ultimate Recipients;
(7) The final report will also address the following:
(i) What have been the most challenging or unexpected aspects of this grant?
(ii) What advice would you give to other organizations planning a similar grant? What are the strengths and limitations of this grant? If you had the opportunity, what would you have done differently?
(iii) Are there any post-grant plans for this Project? If yes, how will they be financed?
(b) [Reserved]
§ 3570.277
Audit or financial statement.
The Grantee will provide an Audit report or financial Statement in accordance with 2 CFR 200.500-200.517 and as follows:
(a) Grantees expending $750,000 or more Federal funds per fiscal year will submit an Audit conducted in accordance with 2 CFR parts 200, 215, 220, 225, 230 and 400, “Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.”
(b) Grantees expending less than $750,000 will provide annual financial Statements covering the grant period, consisting of the organization's statement of income and expense and balance sheet signed by an appropriate Official of the organization. Financial statements will be submitted within 90 days after the Grantee's fiscal year.
§§ 3570.278-3570.280
[Reserved]
§ 3570.281
Grant servicing.
Grants will be serviced in accordance with 7 CFR part 1951, subpart E.
§ 3570.282
[Reserved]
§ 3570.283
Exception authority.
The Administrator may make an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart, if such an exception is necessary to implement the intent of the authorizing statutes in a time of national emergency or in accordance with a Presidentially-declared disaster, or on a case-by-case basis, when such an exception is in the best financial interest of the Federal Government and is otherwise not in conflict with applicable laws. No exceptions, however, will be granted for Applicant, Ultimate Recipient, or Project eligibility.
§ 3570.284
Review or appeal rights.
A person may seek a review of an Agency decision under this subpart from the appropriate Agency official that oversees the program in question or appeal to the USDA National Appeals Division in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§§ 3570.285-3570.299
[Reserved]
§ 3570.300
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this regulation have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval.
PARTS 3575-3599 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXXVI (1-1-25 Edition)
National Agricultural Statistics Service, USDA

# CHAPTER XXXVI—NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
3600
Organization and functions
639
3601
Public information
641
3602-3699
[Reserved]
Pt. 3600

# PART 3600—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
Sec.
3600.1
General.
3600.2
Organization.
3600.3
Functions.
3600.4
Authority to act for the Administrator.
Appendix A to Part 3600—List of State Statistical Offices

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 552: and 7 CFR 2.85.

# Source:
60 FR 57534, Nov. 16, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3600.1
General.
The National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) was established on April 17, 1986, by Secretary's Memorandum 1020-24, which renamed the Statistical Reporting Service concurrent with an internal restructuring. Primary NASS responsibilities are development and dissemination of national and State agricultural statistics, statistical research, and coordination of Department statistical programs.
§ 3600.2
Organization.
The headquarters organization consists of: The Administrator and Associate Administrator; Deputy Administrator for Field Operations; Four Divisions: Estimates, Survey Management, Research, and Systems and Information; and the Agricultural Statistics Board. In the field, each of the 45 State Statistical Offices, serving the 50 States, is under a State Statistician.
§ 3600.3
Functions.
(a)
Administrator.
The Administrator is responsible for the formulation of current, intermediate, and long-range policies and plans to carry out a broad statistical program for the agricultural sector and Departmental functions and activities assigned to NASS. Specific functions are:
(1) Administering an agricultural statistics program which includes estimates of production, marketings, inventories, and selected economic characteristics of the U.S. agricultural and rural economy.
(2) Administering a methodological research program to improve agricultural data collection and processing, data management, estimation, and forecasting.
(3) Administering programs to conduct surveys for other agencies, improve statistics through statistical standards for the Department, and coordinate statistical methods and techniques within the Federal Government.
(4) Administering statistical programs jointly developed through cooperative agreements with State agencies, universities, private groups, and other Federal agencies.
(5) Administering selected international agricultural statistics programs which provide foreign technical assistance, training on statistical methodology for developing countries, and exchange of information.
(b)
Associate Administrator.
The Associate Administrator is responsible for advising and counseling the Administrator and high-level policy officials on matters related to programs of NASS. Major functions include:
(1) Chairing Agricultural Statistics Board activities, designating Board membership, presiding at Board sessions, and formulating specific procedures.
(2) Chairing the NASS Strategic Planning Council which coordinates long-range planning, information resources management, and research reviews.
(3) Chairing the Resource Management Council which coordinates NASS hiring, promotion, and training activities.
(c)
Deputy Administrator for Field Operations.
The Deputy Administrator manages and coordinates data collection and estimating programs carried out by State Statistical Offices. This includes supervision of statistical programs with cooperating State and private groups, universities, and other Federal agencies. Major functions include:
(1) Formulating policies and programs that relate to functions and responsibilities of State Statistical Offices.
(2) Directing agricultural statistics programs established through cooperative agreements with State Departments of Agriculture, Land-Grant colleges and universities, or appropriate private organizations.
(3) Establishing and maintaining relationships with respondents, producers, commodity groups, data users, and other interested groups to gain cooperation in providing useful, timely, and reliable information.
(d)
Director, Estimates Division.
The Director is responsible for NASS estimating and forecasting programs. Major functions include:
(1) Defining input and output requirements, estimators and variances to be utilized, statistical standards, editing and summarization requirements, and analytic procedures.
(2) Collaborating with the Chairperson of the Agricultural Statistics Board to establish the annual programs of statistical reports.
(3) Developing appropriate systems parameters; processing, summarizing, and presenting current survey and related historical data for Agricultural Statistics Board analysis; and preparing official estimates and forecasts.
(e)
Director, Survey Management Division.
The Director is responsible for application of survey design and data collection methodologies to the agricultural statistics program. Major functions include:
(1) Constructing and maintaining appropriate sampling frames for agricultural and rural surveys.
(2) Designing, testing, and establishing survey techniques and standards, including sample design, sample selection, questionnaires, data collection methods, survey materials, and training methods for NASS.
(3) Reviewing specifications for special data collection activities for programs of other Federal or State agencies.
(f)
Director, Research Division.
The Director is responsible for researching statistical methodology for survey design, data collection, processing, estimating, and forecasting. Major functions include:
(1) Conducting statistical research to develop new and improved sampling techniques, develop improved data collection methods, and identify methods of controlling sampling and nonsampling errors.
(2) Researching statistical computing methods and developing efficient uses of computer technology including telecommunications, networking, and other applications.
(3) Developing new statistical theory and models and solving statistical problems, including numerical methods involving advanced mathematical statistics.
(g)
Director, Systems and Information Division.
The Director is responsible for NASS information management system and processing services. Specific functions are:
(1) Designing, maintaining, and providing access to an integrated and standardized information management system containing sampling frames, survey data, estimates, and administrative records utilized by NASS.
(2) Providing appropriate support for assisting users of the information management system through documentation, evaluation, training, and resolution of information management problems.
(3) Designing and issuing all reports releasing official State and national estimates and forecasts from NASS.
(h)
Chairperson, Agricultural Statistics Board.
The Chairperson reviews, prepares, and issues on specific dates, following approval by the Secretary of Agriculture as provided by law (7 U.S.C. 411a) and Departmental Regulation, the official State and national estimates relating to crop production, livestock and livestock products, dairy and dairy products, poultry and poultry products, stocks of agricultural commodities, value of farm products, farm inputs, and other assigned agricultural aspects.
§ 3600.4
Authority to act for the Administrator.
In the absence of the Administrator, the following officials are designated to serve as Acting Administrator in the order indicated:
Associate Administrator
Deputy Administrator for Field Operations
Director, Estimates Division
Director, Survey Management Division
Director, Systems and Information Division
Director, Research Division
Pt. 3600, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 3600—List of State Statistical Offices

# Section 1. General
Information concerning NASS statistics programs and activities related to individual States may be obtained from the State Statistician, State Statistical Office, NASS, in the locations listed below.

# Section 2. List of Addresses
Alabama, Sterling Centre, Suite 200, 4121 Carmichael Road, Montgomery, AL 36106-2872
Alaska, 809 South Chugach Street, Suite 4, Palmer, AK 99645
Arizona, 3003 North Central Avenue, Suite 950, Phoenix, AZ 85012
Arkansas, 3408 Federal Office Building, Little Rock, AR 72201
California, 1220 “N” Street, Room 243, Sacramento, CA 95814
Colorado, 645 Parfet Street, Suite W-201, Lakewood, CO 80215-5517
Delaware, Delaware Department of Agriculture Building, 2320 South Dupont Highway, Dover, DE 19901
Florida, 1222 Woodward Street, Orlando, FL 32803
Georgia, Stephens Federal Building, Suite 320, Athens, GA 30613
Hawaii, State Department of Agriculture Building, 1428 South King Street, Honolulu, HI 96814
Idaho, 2224 Old Penitentiary Road, Boise, ID 83712
Illinois, Illinois Department of Agriculture Building, 801 Sangamon Avenue, Room 54, Springfield, IL 62702
Indiana, 1148 AGAD Building, Purdue University, Room 223, West Lafayette, IN 47907-1148
Iowa, 833 Federal Building, 210 Walnut Street, Des Moines, IA 50309
Kansas, 632 S.W. Van Buren, Room 200, Topeka, KS 66603
Kentucky, Gene Snyder
Courthouse Building, 601 W. Broadway, Room 645, Louisville, KY 40202
Louisiana, 5825 Florida Boulevard, Baton Rouge, LA 70806
Maryland, 50 Harry S Truman Parkway, Suite 202, Annapolis, MD 21401
Michigan, 201 Federal Building, Lansing, MI 48904
Minnesota, 8 East 4th Street, Suite 500, St. Paul, MN 55101
Mississippi, 121 North Jefferson Street, Jackson, MS 39201
Missouri, 601 Business Loop West, Suite 240, Columbia, MO 65203
Montana, Federal Building
U.S. Court House, Room 398, 301 S. Park Avenue, Helena, MT 59626
Nebraska, 100 Centennial Mall N., Room 273 Federal Building, Lincoln, NE 68508
Nevada, Max C. Fleischmann Agriculture Building, Room 232, University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89557
New Hampshire, 22 Bridge Street, Room 301, Concord, NH 03301
New Jersey, Health and Agriculture Building, Room 205, CN-330 New Warren Street, Trenton, NJ 08625
New Mexico, 2507 North Telshor Boulevard, Suite 4, Las Cruces, NM 88001
New York, Department of Agriculture
Markets, 1 Winners Circle, Albany, NY 12235
North Carolina, 2 W. Edenton Street, Raleigh, NC 27601-1085
North Dakota, 1250 Albrecht Boulevard, NDSU, Room 448, Fargo, ND 58105
Ohio, 200 N. High Street, New Federal Building, Room 608, Columbus, OH 43215
Oklahoma, 2800 North Lincoln Boulevard, Oklahoma City, OK 73105
Oregon, 1220 S.W. Third Avenue, Room 1735, Portland, OR 97204
Pennsylvania, 2301 N. Cameron Street, Room G-19, Harrisburg, PA 17110
South Carolina, 1835 Assembly Street, Room 1008, Columbia, SC 29201
South Dakota, 3528 S. Western Avenue, Sioux Falls, SD 57117
Tennessee, 440 Hogan Road, Holeman Office Building, Ellington Agricultural Center, Nashville, TN 37220-1626
Texas, 300 E. 8th Street, Federal Building, Room 504, Austin, TX 78701
Utah, 176 N. 2200 West—Suite 260, Salt Lake City, UT 84116
Virginia, 1100 Bank Street, Room 706, Richmond, VA 23219
Washington, 1111 Washington Street, SE, Olympia, WA 98504
West Virginia, 1900 Kanawha Boulevard E, Charleston, WV 25305
Wisconsin, 2811 Agriculture Drive, Madison, WI 53704
Wyoming, 504 W. 17th Street, Suite 250, Cheyenne, WY 82001
Pt. 3601

# PART 3601—PUBLIC INFORMATION
Sec.
3601.1
General statement.
3601.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
3601.3
Requests for records.
3601.4
Multitrack processing.
3601.5
Denials.
3601.6
Appeals.
3601.7
Requests for published data and information.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552; 7 CFR part 1, subpart A and appendix A thereto.

# Source:
66 FR 57843, Nov. 19, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3601.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture in part 1, subpart A of this title and appendix A thereto, implementing the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552), and governs the availability of records of the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) to the public.
§ 3601.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) requires that certain materials be made available for public inspection and copying and that a current index of these materials be published quarterly or otherwise be made available. Members of the public may request access to such materials maintained by NASS at the following office: Information Staff, ARS, REE, USDA, Room 1-2248, Mail Stop 5128, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, MD 20705-5128; Telephone (301) 504-1640 or (301) 504-1655; TTY-VOICE (301) 504-1743. Office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Information maintained in our electronic reading room can be accessed at
http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/foia/#Electronic.
§ 3601.3
Requests for records.
Requests for records of NASS under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) shall be made in accordance with § 1.5 of this title and submitted to the FOIA Coordinator, Information Staff, ARS, REE, USDA, Mail Stop 5128, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, MD 20705-5128; Telephone (301) 504-1640 or (301) 504-1655; TTY-VOICE (301) 504-1643; Facsimile (301) 504-1648; e-mail
vherberger@ars.usda.gov
or
shutchison@ars.usda.gov.
The FOIA Coordinator is delegated authority to make determinations regarding such requests in accordance with § 1.3(c) of this title.
§ 3601.4
Multitrack processing.
(a) When NASS has a significant number of requests, the nature of which precludes a determination within 20 working days, the requests may be processed in a multitrack processing system, based on the date of receipt, the amount of work and time involved in processing the request, and whether the request qualifies for expedited processing.
(b) NASS may establish as many processing tracks as appropriate; processing within each track shall be based on a first-in, first-out concept, and rank-ordered by the date of receipt of the request.
(c) A requester whose request does not qualify for the fastest track may be given an opportunity to limit the scope of the request in order to qualify for the fastest track. This multitrack processing system does not lessen agency responsibility to exercise due diligence in processing requests in the most expeditious manner possible.
(d) NASS shall process requests in each track on a “first-in, first-out” basis, unless there are unusual circumstances as set forth in § 1.16 of this title, or the requester is entitled to expedited processing as set forth in § 1.9 of this title.
§ 3601.5
Denials.
If the FOIA Coordinator determines that a requested record is exempt from mandatory disclosure and that discretionary release would be improper, the FOIA Coordinator shall give written notice of denial in accordance with § 1.7(a) of this title.
§ 3601.6
Appeals.
Any person whose request is denied shall have the right to appeal such denial. Appeals shall be made in accordance with § 1.13 of this title and should be addressed as follows: Administrator, NASS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
§ 3601.7
Requests for published data and information.
(a) Published data and reports produced by NASS since 1995 are available via the NASS Web site at
http://www.usda.gov/nass/
or an e-mail subscription may be established via the website under Publications. Searching on the website is available by topic, by title, or by date. The titles displayed in the search include NASS's published periodicals and annual reports. Full text of all the titles is available at no cost (PDF Files beginning 1999). Printed copies and reports published after 1996 can be purchased from the ERS-NASS sales desk at the National Technical Information Center at 1 (800) 999-
6779 (8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. Eastern Time, M-F).
(b) Information on published data, printed subscription rates, and historic publications is available from the Secretary, Agricultural Statistics Board, NASS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. This information is also available from the NASS website under Publications, NASS Catalog, NASS Periodicals and Annual Reports. Published data, from each State Statistical Office, are available via the NASS website under State Information or by e-mail subscription. Published data subscription forms are available from the State Statistician at each State Statistical Office. Addresses are listed in appendix A to part 3600 of this chapter.
PARTS 3602-3699 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXXVII (1-1-25 Edition)
Economic Research Service, USDA

# CHAPTER XXXVII—ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
3700
Organization and functions
647
3701
Public information
649
3702-3799
[Reserved]
Pt. 3700

# PART 3700—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
Sec.
3700.1
General.
3700.2
Organization.
3700.3
Functions.
3700.4
Authority to act for the Administrator.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 552, and 7 CFR 2.67.

# Source:
61 FR 1827, Jan. 24, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3700.1
General.
The Economic Research Service (ERS), originally established in 1961 under the authority of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627), was reestablished as an agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture of September 30, 1981 (46 FR 47747), in response to Secretary's Memorandum 1000-1 of June 17, 1981, entitled “Reorganization of Department.” The mission of ERS is to provide economic and other social science information and analysis for public and private decisions on agriculture, food, natural resources, and rural America. Its primary customers are USDA policy officials and program administrators, the Office of the While House, Congress, and environmental, consumer, and rural public interest groups, including farm groups and industry.
§ 3700.2
Organization.
ERS maintains its offices at 1301 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005-4788. The organization consists of:
(a) The Administrator;
(b) Associate Administrator;
(c) Five Divisions; Commercial Agriculture Division, Food and Consumer Economics Division, Information Services Division, Natural Resources and Environment Division, and Rural Economy Division; and
(d) Office of Energy and New Uses.
§ 3700.3
Functions.
(a)
Administrator and Associate Administrator.
The Administrator and Associate Administrator are responsible for developing and implementing policies and plans in support of a program of economic and social science research, analysis, and data dissemination. General functions are: Conducting research and staff analysis, and developing short to long-term outlook analysis and economic indicators.
(b)
Director, Commercial Agriculture Division.
The Director, Commercial Agriculture Division, is responsible for conducting a program of economic research; economic intelligence gathering, analysis, and reporting; and data development and dissemination on economic conditions, U.S. and foreign policies, and agriculture production, trade, and marketing. General functions are:
(1) Developing and monitoring current intelligence and indicators on domestic and international agricultural markets and related farm and trade developments and short to long-term forecasts of domestic and world agricultural markets.
(2) Assessing the technological, economic, and institutional forces influencing U.S. and world agricultural markets.
(3) Conducting special analyses of U.S. and world agricultural markets for policy officials to assist in policy development and the operation of USDA programs.
(4) Collecting necessary information and performing international, national, and regional macroeconomics analysis to estimate the effects of macro economic trends and events in the global economy on the American farm sector.
(c)
Director, Food and Consumer Economic Division.
The Director, Food and Consumer Economic Division, is responsible for providing economic research, monitoring and statistical indicators, and staff and the policy analysis of consumer and food marketing issues, including: Consumption determinants and trends; consumer demand for food quality, safety, and nutrition; food security; market competition; vertical coordination; nutrition education and food assistance programs; and food safety regulation. General functions are:
(1) Analyzing consumer behavior and food choices, including research regarding the socio-demographic and economic determinants of food and nutrient consumption; consumer valuation
of quality, safety, and nutrition characteristics; and the role of information in determining food choices.
(2) Examining food assistance and nutrition programs, nutritional adequacy of diets, and food security, including costs and benefits of food assistance and nutrition programs, program and policy alternatives, the extent and social cost of good insecurity, and the role of food assistance in meeting larger goals of welfare programs.
(3) Analyzing the food processing and distribution sector, including the ability of the sector to meet changing consumer demand; the effect of government market interventions to facilitate that response; and the effect of government interventions and rapid changes in the sector on consumer and producer welfare.
(4) Analyzing food safety issues, including consumer benefits from risk reduction, production tradeoffs in reducing hazards, impact of proposed regulations and international harmonization, and policy alternatives.
(5) Developing and monitoring indicators of individual, household, and market level food consumption, expenditures, and nutrients; food marketing costs, marketing margins, and farm-retail price spreads; and food safety hazards, their effects, and mitigation.
(d)
Director, Information Services Division.
The Director, Information Services Division, is responsible for managing and directing agencywide information technology, communications, and administrative activities in support of the economic research and analysis mission of ERS. General functions are:
(1) Developing and managing information technology infrastructure and training.
(2) Developing and managing communications, publication, and dissemination programs, policies, and procedures.
(3) Providing operations and management services, including liaison with the ARS's Administrative and Financial Management unit.
(e)
Director, Natural Resources and Environment Division.
The Director, Natural Resources and Environment Division, is responsible for providing economic research, monitoring and statistical indicators, and staff and policy analysis of agricultural resource and environment issues including the relationship between agriculture—its practices, technologies, policies, and resource use—and the environment, including effects on the sustainability of the natural resource base, preservation of species and genetic diversity, and environmental quality. General functions are:
(1) Developing and disseminating data for assessing the use of agricultural resources and technologies by agricultural producers. These data include use and ownership of land, use of agricultural chemicals and equipment, and water use.
(2) Evaluating the implications of alternative agricultural and resource conservation policies and programs on commodity prices, consumer welfare, competitiveness, and long-range maintenance of agricultural land and water resources.
(3) Analyzing the costs, benefits, and distributional impacts of alternative policies to reduce environmental and health risk externalities associated with agriculture.
(4) Monitoring and analyzing the uses and conditions of the nation's water resources and the economic consequences of agricultural and environmental policies affecting water supply, use, and quality.
(5) Analyzing the impacts of national and global developments and domestic and international policies on the use and value of land, water, capital assets, and other agricultural production decisions.
(6) Assessing the possible impacts of proposed or anticipated domestic policy and program changes on agricultural production decisions.
(7) Assessing the effects of technology on input use and markets and evaluating the factors affecting input productivity and technology adoption.
(8) Analyzing the implications of global environmental change and sustainable development for U.S. agriculture.
(f)
Director, Rural Economy Division.
The Director, Rural Economy Division, is responsible for conducting a program of economic and social science research
and analysis on national rural and agricultural conditions and trends, and identifying and assessing the potential impact of public and private sector actions and policies that affect rural areas and the agricultural sector. General functions are:
(1) Analyzing and reporting on current economic and demographic issues facing rural areas and agricultural, especially how changes in the national and global economies affect rural areas and the agriculture sector.
(2) Determining the effects of economic, social, and governmental events and actions on the demand for and supply of rural local government services, the quality of such services, and the relationships between local services and the viability of rural communities.
(3) Developing and disseminating information on current trends in the non-metropolitan and farm populations, the number, location and characteristics of such people, and the factors associated with these trends.
(4) Developing estimates and analyzing labor force trends in rural labor markets, including analyses of unemployment and employment by industry and occupational groups, including farm labor.
(5) Developing data on the income situation of rural people and evaluating the effectiveness of alternative public policies and programs in improving incomes of rural people, especially people in disadvantaged groups.
(6) Monitoring information on and analyzing the development of rural portions of geographic regions of the United States, including changes in industry mix, impacts of energy costs, credit availability, and other economic activities.
(7) Analyzing and reporting on developments in rural and agricultural financial markets and in Federal tax laws, and their consequences for agriculture and rural economies.
(8) Collecting and disseminating financial information on farms and farm enterprises, and developing techniques necessary to measure and describe the financial condition of the agriculture sector and its components.
[61 FR 1827, Jan. 24, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 40736, July 28, 1999]
§ 3700.4
Authority to act for the Administrator.
In the absence of the Administrator, the following officials are designated to serve as Acting Administrator in the order indicated:
Associate Administrator
Director, Commercial Agriculture Division
Director, Food and Consumer Economics Division
Director, Natural Resources and Environment Division
Director, Rural Economy Division
Director, Information Services Division
Director, Office of Energy and New Uses
Pt. 3701

# PART 3701—PUBLIC INFORMATION
Sec.
3701.1
General statement.
3701.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
3701.3
Requests for records.
3701.4
Multitrack processing.
3701.5
Denials.
3701.6
Appeals.
3701.7
Requests for published data and information.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552; 7 CFR part 1, subpart A and appendix A thereto.

# Source:
66 FR 57845, Nov. 19, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3701.1
General statement.
This part is issued in accordance with the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture in part 1, subpart A of this title and appendix A thereto, implementing the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552). The Secretary's regulations, as implemented by the regulations in this part, govern the availability of records of the Economic Research Service (ERS) to the public.
§ 3701.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) requires that certain materials be made available for public inspection and copying and that a current index of these materials be published quarterly or otherwise be made available. Members of the public may request access to such materials maintained by ERS at the following office: Information Staff, ARS, REE, USDA, Room 1-2248, Mail Stop 5128, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, MD 20705-5128; Telephone (301) 504-1640 or
(301) 504-1655; TTY-VOICE (301) 504-1743. Office hours are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Information maintained in our electronic reading room can be accessed at
http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/foia/#Electronic.
§ 3701.3
Requests for records.
Requests for records of ERS under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) shall be made in accordance with § 1.5 of this title and submitted to the FOIA Coordinator, Information Staff, ARS, REE, USDA, Mail Stop 5128, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, MD 20705-5128; Telephone (301) 504-1640 or (301) 504-1655; TTY-VOICE (301) 504-1743; Facsimile (301) 504-1648; e-mail
vherberger@ars.usda.gov
or
shutchison@ars.usda.gov.
The FOIA Coordinator is delegated authority to make determinations regarding such requests in accordance with § 1.3(c) of this title.
§ 3701.4
Multitrack processing.
(a) When ERS has a significant number of requests, the nature of which precludes a determination within 20 working days, the requests may be processed in a multitrack processing system, based on the date of receipt, the amount of work and time involved in processing the request, and whether the request qualifies for expedited processing.
(b) ERS may establish as many processing tracks as appropriate; processing within each track shall be based on a first-in, first-out concept, and rank-ordered by the date of receipt of the request.
(c) A requester whose request does not qualify for the fastest track may be given an opportunity to limit the scope of the request in order to qualify for the fastest track. This multitrack processing system does not lessen agency responsibility to exercise due diligence in processing requests in the most expeditious manner possible.
(d) ERS shall process requests in each track on a “first-in, first-out” basis, unless there are unusual circumstances as set forth in § 1.16 of this title, or the requester is entitled to expedited processing as set forth in § 1.9 of this title.
§ 3701.5
Denials.
If the FOIA Coordinator determines that a requested record is exempt from mandatory disclosure and that discretionary release would be improper, the FOIA Coordinator shall give written notice of denial in accordance with § 1.7(a) of this title.
§ 3701.6
Appeals.
Any person whose request is denied shall have the right to appeal such denial. Appeals shall be made in accordance with § 1.14 of this title and should be addressed as follows: Administrator, ERS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
§ 3701.7
Requests for published data and information.
Published data and reports produced by ERS since 1996 are available on the ERS Web site at
http://www.ers.usda.gov.
Searching on the website is available by topic, by title, or by date. The titles displayed in the search include ERS's separately published research reports as well as articles in ERS-produced periodicals. Full text of all the titles are available at no cost (usually in PDF Files). Printed copies and reports published before 1996 (while supplies last) can be purchased from the ERS-NASS sales desk at the National Technical Information Center at 1-800-999-6779 (8:30 a.m.-5 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, M-F).
PARTS 3702-3799 [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XXXVIII (1-1-25 Edition)
World Agricultural Outlook Board, USDA

# CHAPTER XXXVIII—WORLD AGRICULTURAL OUTLOOK BOARD, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
3800
Organization and functions
653
3801
Availability of information to the public
653
3802-3899
[Reserved]
Pt. 3800

# PART 3800—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
Sec.
3800.1
General.
3800.2
Organization.
3800.3
Functions.
3800.4
Authority to act for the Chairperson.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 552, and 7 CFR 2.72, except as otherwise noted.

# Source:
53 FR 5358, Feb. 24, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3800.1
General.
The World Agricultural Outlook Board (WAOB) was established on June 3, 1977, by Secretary's Memorandum 1920, entitled “World Food and Agricultural Outlook and Situation Board.” The primary responsibility of WAOB is to coordinate and review all commodity and aggregate agricultural and food data and analyses used to develop outlook and situation material within the Department of Agriculture.
§ 3800.2
Organization.
The central and only office of WAOB is located in Washington, DC, and consists of the Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson, and supporting staff.
§ 3800.3
Functions.
The WAOB has four major areas of responsibility:
(a)
Agricultural outlook and situation.
(1) Coordinate and review all crop and commodity data used to develop outlook and situation material within the Department of Agriculture.
(2) Oversee and clear for consistency of analytical assumptions and results, all estimates and analyses which significantly relate to international and domestic commodity supply and demand. This includes such estimates and analyses prepared for public distribution by the Foreign Agricultural Service, the Economic Research Service, or by any other agency or office of the Department.
(3) Participate in planning and developing research programs relating to improving the Department's forecasting and estimating capabilities.
(4) Provide liaison between the Department and Commodity Futures Trading Commission to assure that the futures market serves the best interest of agriculture and the public.
(5) Plan and participate in Departmental, interdepartmental, regional and international outlook conferences and briefings, to maintain an awareness of current and upcoming economic issues significant to the food and agricultural system.
(b)
Interagency commodity estimates.
(1) Establish Interagency Commodity Estimates Committees to bring together estimates and analyses from supporting agencies and to develop official estimates of supply, utilization, and prices for commodities.
(2) Review for consistency of analytical assumptions and results, all proposed decisions made by the Interagency Commodity Estimates Committee prior to any release outside the Department.
(c)
Weather and climate.
(1) Serve as a focal point within the Department for coordination of weather, climate, and related crop monitoring activities.
[53 FR 5358, Feb. 24, 1988, as amended at 79 FR 44117, July 30, 2014]
§ 3800.4
Authority to act for the Chairperson.
When the Chairperson is absent or temporarily unavailable, the Deputy Chairperson is authorized to act for the Chairperson.
Pt. 3801

# PART 3801—AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC
Sec.
3801.1
General.
3801.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
3801.3
Requests for records.
3801.4
Denials.
3801.5
Appeals.
3801.6
Requests for published data and information.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 and 552; 7 CFR 1.1-1.23 and Appendix A.

# Source:
53 FR 5358, Feb. 24, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 3801.1
General.
This part is issued in accordance with the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture in §§ 1.1-1.23 of this title and Appendix A thereto, implementing the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
(5 U.S.C. 552), and governs the availability of records of the World Agricultural Outlook Board (WAOB) to the public.
§ 3801.2
Public inspection, copying, and indexing.
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) requires that certain materials be made available for public inspection and copying and that a current index of these materials be published quarterly or otherwise be made available. WAOB does not maintain any materials within the scope of these requirements.
§ 3801.3
Requests for records.
Requests for records of WAOB shall be made in accordance with § 1.6 (a) and (b) of this title and addressed to: Economics Agencies FOIA Officer, Economics Management Staff, USDA, Room 4310, South Building, 12th and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250. This official is delegated authority to make determinations regarding such requests in accordance with § 1.3(a)(3) of this title.
§ 3801.4
Denials.
If the Economics Agencies FOIA Officer determines that a requested record is exempt from mandatory disclosure and that discretionary release would be improper, the Economics Agencies FOIA Officer shall give written notice of denial in accordance with § 1.8(a) of this title.
§ 3801.5
Appeals.
Any person whose request is denied shall have the right to appeal such denial. Appeals shall be in accordance with § 1.6(e) of this title and addressed to the Chairperson, World Agricultural Outlook Board, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
§ 3801.6
Requests for published data and information.
Information on published data, subscription rates, and all WAOB programs is available from the Chairperson, World Agricultural Outlook Board, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
PARTS 3802-3899 [RESERVED]
CHAPTER XLI [RESERVED]
7 CFR Ch. XLII (1-1-25 Edition)
RB-CS, USDA

# CHAPTER XLII—RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter XLII appear at 61 FR 3782, Feb. 2, 1996.
Part
Page
4200-4269
[Reserved]
4270
USDA biobased markets program: Federal procurement and voluntary labeling (Eff. 1-8-25)
657
4271-4273
[Reserved]
4274
Direct and insured loanmaking
677
4279
Guaranteed loanmaking
703
4280
Loans and grants
786
4284
Grants
883
4285
Cooperative agreements
945
4287
Servicing
952
4288
Payment programs
981
4290
Rural Business Investment Company (“RBIC”) Program
1005
4291-4299
[Reserved]
PARTS 4200-4269 [RESERVED]
Pt. 4270

# PART 4270—USDA BIOBASED MARKETS PROGRAM: FEDERAL PROCUREMENT AND VOLUNTARY LABELING
Sec.
4270.1
Purpose and scope.
4270.2
Definitions.
4270.3
Applicability.
4270.4
Criteria for eligibility
4270.5
Procurement programs.
4270.6
Category designation.
4270.7
Determining Biobased Content.
4270.8
[Reserved]
4270.9
Initial approval process.
4270.10
[Reserved]
4270.11
Requirements associated with promotional certification materials.
4270.12
Violations of program requirements.
4270.13
Appeal process.
4270.14
Reporting and recordkeeping.
4270.15
Oversight and monitoring.
4270.16-4270.98
[Reserved]
4270.99
OMB control number.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 8102.

# Source:
89 FR 97465, Dec. 9, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 97465, Dec. 9, 2024, Part 4270 was added, effective Jan. 8, 2025.
§ 4270.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part sets forth the procedures and guidelines for the implementation of the USDA Biobased Markets Program, called the BioPreferred® Program, established by section 9002 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (FSRIA) as amended by the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, and further amended by the Agricultural Act of 2014, and the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 107-171, 116 Stat. 476, 7 U.S.C. 8102).
(b) The guidelines in this part establish:
(1) A process for designating categories of products that are, or can be, produced with biobased Intermediate Ingredients or feedstocks and whose procurement by procuring agencies and other relevant Stakeholders will carry out the objectives of section 9002 of FSRIA;
(2) The criteria for eligibility and the process through which Biobased Products can participate in the BioPreferred Program, be subject to preferred Federal procurement, and be eligible to display the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label;
(3) Specifications for the correct and incorrect uses of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label and Certification Icon, which apply to Participating Organizations and Other Entities; and
(4) Actions that constitute noncompliance with this part.
§ 4270.2
Definitions
Agricultural materials.
Plant, animal, and marine matter, raw materials or residues used in the manufacturing of a commercial or industrial product excluding food, feed, motor vehicle fuel, heating oil, and electricity.
Applicable minimum biobased content.
The required Biobased Content level set by USDA that a product must meet or exceed to qualify for the Federal procurement preference and use of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.
ASTM International (ASTM).
A nonprofit organization, formerly known as American Society for Testing and Materials, that provides an international forum for the development and publication of voluntary consensus standards for materials, products, systems, and services.
Biobased content.
The amount of recent, biologically derived organic carbon in the material or product expressed as a percent of weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the material or product.
Biobased content testing.
The testing that is performed to verify a product's Biobased Content. For products participating in the BioPreferred Program, the Biobased Content is to be determined using ASTM Method D6866, Standard Test Methods for Determining the Biobased Content of Solid, Liquid, and Gaseous Samples Using Radiocarbon Analysis.
Biobased product(s).
(1) A product determined by USDA to be a commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed) that is:
(i) Composed, in whole or in significant part, of Biological Products, including renewable domestic Agricultural Materials, Renewable Chemicals, and forestry materials; or
(ii) An Intermediate Ingredient or Feedstock.
(2) The term Biobased Product includes, with respect to forestry materials, Forest Products that meet Biobased Content requirements, notwithstanding the market share the product holds, the age of the product, or whether the market for the product is new or emerging. For the purposes of the BioPreferred Program, the term Biobased Product does not include motor vehicle fuels, heating oils, or electricity.
Biodegradability.
A quantitative measure of the extent to which a material is capable of being decomposed by biological agents, especially bacteria.
Biological products.
Products derived from living materials.
Certification icon.
The distinctive image, as shown in figure 1 (note that actual size will vary depending on application), that depicts the symbols of the sun, the soil, and the aquatic environments to be used with USDA's permission to identify Certified Biobased Products. The icon will be used in materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, websites, and promotional and educational materials. The colors used in the Certification Icon can be found in the USDA BioPreferred Program Brand and Marketing Guidelines available on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).

# Figure 1 to Definition of Certified Icon—Certification Icon
ER09DE24.687
Certified application.
An application for a Biobased Product to participate in the BioPreferred Program that has completed all steps of the certification process, including an initial Prequalification review and Biobased Content Testing as required, and has received a notice of certification.
Certified biobased product.
A Biobased Product that is eligible for preferred Federal procurement because it meets the definition and Applicable Minimum Biobased Content criteria for one or more Designated Product Categories as specified in the Register of Designated Categories, and for which the Participating Organization has received approval from USDA to utilize the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.
Complex assembly.
A system of distinct materials and components assembled to create a finished product with specific functional intent where some or all of the system components contain some amount of biobased material or feedstock.
Days.
As used in this part means calendar Days.
Defined product category.
Any product category that has been established for a specified grouping of Biobased Products with similar characteristics and intended uses. A Defined Product Category includes a description of the product characteristics that fall within the category. The other product category is not a Defined Product Category.
Designated product category.
A grouping of Biobased Products, including finished products, Intermediate Ingredients or Feedstocks, and Complex Assemblies, identified in the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
). Certified or Qualified
Biobased Products that meet the criteria for at least one designated category are eligible for the procurement preference established under section 9002 of FSRIA.
Designated representative.
An entity authorized by a Participating Organization to act on their behalf to obtain certification or to affix the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to the Participating Organization's Certified Biobased Product or its packaging or perform other marketing functions.
Federal agency.
Any executive agency or independent establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the Government (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Architect of the Capitol, and any activities under the Architect's direction).
Forest product.
A product made from materials derived from the practice of forestry or the management of growing timber. The term Forest Product includes:
(1) Pulp, paper, paperboard, pellets, lumber, and other wood products; and
(2) Any recycled products derived from forest materials.
Formulated product.
A product that is prepared or mixed with other Ingredients, according to a specified formula and includes more than one Ingredient.
FSRIA.
The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Public Law 107-171, 116 Stat. 134 (7 U.S.C. 8102).
Ingredient.
A component, or a part of a compound or mixture, that may be active or inactive.
Innovative criteria.
Benchmark for demonstrating new and emerging approaches in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of the Biobased Product. Biobased Products must meet one of the Innovative Criteria as defined by USDA to be eligible for preferred Federal procurement and to display the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.
Intermediate ingredient or feedstock.
A material or compound made in whole or in significant part from Biological Products, including renewable Agricultural Materials (including plant, animal, and marine materials) or forestry materials that have undergone value added processing (including thermal, chemical, biological, or a significant amount of mechanical processing), excluding harvesting operations, offered for sale by a Participating Organization and that is subsequently used to make a more complex compound or product.
ISO.
The International Organization for Standardization, a network of national standards institutes working in partnership with international organizations, governments, industries, business, and consumer representatives.
ISO 9001 conformant.
An entity that meets all the requirements of the ISO 9001 standard, but that is not required to be ISO 9001 certified. ISO 9001 refers to the ISO's standards and guidelines relating to quality management systems. Quality management is defined as what the manufacturer does to ensure that its products or services satisfy the customer's quality requirements and comply with any regulations applicable to those products or services.
Other entity.
Any person, group, public or private organization, or business other than USDA or Participating Organizations that may wish to use the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label or Certification Icon in informational or promotional material related to a Certified Biobased Product.
Parent product.
The Certified Biobased Product in a test exempt relationship that was originally tested for certification. A test exempt product references the Certified Application of its Parent Product.
Participating organization.
An entity that has completed the steps required to have a Certified and/or Qualified Biobased Product under the BioPreferred Program. Participants can include entities that perform the necessary chemical and mechanical processes to make a Biobased Product, and entities that offer for sale Biobased Products that they do not manufacture but that are marketed and sold under their own brand.
Prequalification.
The step during the certification process at which an application is conditionally approved pending the product undergoing Biobased Content Testing.
Procuring agency.
Any Federal Agency that is using Federal funds for procurement or any business contracting
with any Federal Agency with respect to work performed under the contract.
Qualified biobased product(s).
A product that is eligible for preferred Federal procurement because it meets the definition and Applicable Minimum Biobased Content criteria for one or more Designated Product Categories as specified in the Register of Designated Categories.
Register of Designated Categories.
The list of product categories that are eligible for the procurement preference established under section 9002 of FSRIA, including the category name, description, required minimum Biobased Content, and date of finalization. The Register of Designated Categories can be found on the BioPreferred Program website at
biopreferred.gov
.
Renewable chemical.
A monomer, polymer, plastic, Formulated Product, or chemical substance produced from renewable biomass.
Secretary.
The Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture.
Stakeholder.
Individuals or officers of State or local government organizations, private non-profit institutions, or organizations, and private businesses or consumers.
USDA.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
USDA Certified Biobased Product label.
A combination of the Certification Icon (as defined in this part); one of three statements identifying whether the USDA certification applies to the product, the package, or both the product and package; and the letters “FP” to indicate that the product is within a Designated Product Category and eligible for preferred Federal procurement. The distinctive image, as shown in figures 2, 3, and 4 (note that actual size will vary depending on application), identifies products as USDA Certified Biobased Products. The colors used in the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label can be found in the USDA BioPreferred Program Brand and Marketing Guidelines available on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
). The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is owned and its use is managed by USDA (standard trademark law definition applies).

# Figure 2 to Definition of USDA Certified Biobased Product Label—USDA Certified Biobased Product Label
ER09DE24.688

# Figure 3 to Definition of USDA Certified Biobased Product Label—USDA Certified Biobased Package Label
ER09DE24.689

# Figure 4 to Definition of USDA Certified Biobased Product Label—USDA Certified Biobased Product

# Package Label
ER09DE24.690
§ 4270.3
Applicability.
(a)
Applicability to Federal procurements
—(1)
Applicability to procurement actions.
The guidelines in this part apply to all procurement actions by Procuring Agencies involving product categories designated by USDA in this part, where the Procuring Agency makes purchases of $10,000 or more of one of these products during a fiscal year, or where the quantity of such products or of functionally equivalent products purchased during the preceding fiscal year was $10,000 or more. The $10,000 threshold applies to Federal Agencies as a whole rather than to agency subgroups such as regional offices or subagencies of a larger Federal department or agency.
(2)
Exception for procurements subject to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations under the Solid Waste Disposal Act.
For any procurement by any Procuring Agency that is subject to regulations of the Administrator of the EPA under section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (40 CFR part 247), these guidelines do not apply to the extent that the requirements of this part are inconsistent with such regulations.
(3)
Procuring products composed of the highest percentage of Biobased Content.
Section 9002(a)(2) of FSRIA (7 U.S.C. 8102(a)(2)) requires Procuring Agencies to procure Qualified Biobased Products composed of the highest percentage of Biobased Content practicable. Procuring agencies may decide not to procure such Qualified Biobased Products if they are not reasonably priced or readily available or do not meet specified or reasonable performance standards.
(4)
Incidental purchases.
This part does not apply to purchases of Qualified Biobased Products that are unrelated to or incidental to Federal funding (
i.e.,
purchases that are not the direct result of a contract or agreement with persons supplying products to a Procuring Agency or providing support services that include the supply or use of products).
(5)
Exemptions.
The following applications are exempt from the preferred procurement requirements of this part:
(i) Military equipment: Products or systems designed or procured for combat or combat-related missions.
(ii) Spacecraft systems and launch support equipment.
(b)
Applicability to Participating Organizations and Other Entities
—(1)
Participating Organizations.
The requirements in this part apply to all prospective Participating Organizations who wish to participate in the BioPreferred Program. Those wishing to participate in the BioPreferred Program are required to obtain and maintain product certification. USDA will allow only one owner or Designated Representative of a branded product to participate. Participating Organizations may not obtain product certification for a product using a brand name owned by a separate organization unless they are acting on behalf of the brand owner, with their approval, as a Designated Representative.
(2)
Other Entities.
The requirements in this part apply to Other Entities who wish to use the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label or Certification Icon in promoting the sales or
the public awareness of Certified Biobased Products.
§ 4270.4
Criteria for eligibility.
A product must meet each of the criteria specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section to be eligible to participate in the BioPreferred Program.
(a)
Biobased Product.
The product for which certification is sought must be a Biobased Product as defined in § 4270.2. Products must undergo Biobased Content Testing as described in § 4270.7 of this part to confirm the products meet or exceed the applicable minimums.
(1)
Products that are qualified for preferred Federal procurement but not certified as of the date of publication of this rule.
If the product is qualified for preferred Federal procurement through the BioPreferred Program as of January 8, 2025, the product will remain eligible under the legacy rules, which can be found on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
), until the product is reformulated, discontinued, or until December 9, 2027, whichever comes first. These products must follow the procedures described in § 4270.9 before December 9, 2027 to remain eligible.
(2)
Exclusions.
Motor vehicle fuels, heating oil, and electricity are excluded by statute from this Program. For the purposes of this Program, food, animal feed, and products intended to be ingested or inhaled such as pharmaceuticals or nutraceuticals are also excluded.
(b)
Minimum Biobased Content.
The Biobased Content of the product must be equal to or greater than the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content, as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Products that fall under one or more Defined Product Categories
—(i)
Product is within a single product category.
If the Biobased Product is within a single Defined Product Category that, at the time the application for certification is submitted, has been designated by USDA for preferred Federal procurement, the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content requirement for the product is the minimum Biobased Content specified for the Defined Product Category as found in the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website at
biopreferred.gov.
(ii)
Product is within multiple product categories.
If the Biobased Product is marketed within more than one Defined Product Category identified for preferred Federal procurement at the time the application for certification is submitted and uses the same packaging for each use, the product's Biobased Content must meet or exceed the specified minimum Biobased Content for each of the applicable product categories, as found in the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website at
biopreferred.gov,
to become certified in each category. If the product's Biobased Content does not meet the specified minimum Biobased Content for the category that most closely matches the product's primary intended use, the product is not eligible to participate.
(2)
Products that do not meet the definition of at least one Defined Product Category.
If the Biobased Product does not meet the definition of a Defined Product Category that has been designated by USDA at the time the application for certification is submitted, the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content is 30 percent. USDA will evaluate such products as described in § 4270.6 to determine the viability of designating a new product category. If a new category is subsequently designated for preferred Federal procurement, the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content will become, as of the effective date indicated in the Register of Designated Categories, the minimum Biobased Content specified for the newly Defined Product Category.
(c)
Innovative Criteria.
In determining eligibility for certification under the BioPreferred Program, USDA will consider as eligible only those products that use innovative approaches in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of the Biobased Product. USDA will consider products that meet one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section to be eligible for certification. USDA will also consider other documentation of innovative approaches in the growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring,
processing, manufacturing, or application of Biobased Products on a case-by-case basis. USDA may deny or revoke certification for any products whose manufacturers are unable to provide USDA with the documentation necessary to verify claims that innovative approaches are used.
(1)
Product applications.
(i) The Biobased Product or material is used or applied in applications that differ from historical applications; or
(ii) The Biobased Product or material is grown, harvested, manufactured, processed, sourced, or applied in other innovative ways; or
(iii) The Biobased Content of the product or material makes its composition different from products or material used for the same historical uses or applications.
(2)
Manufacturing and processing.
(i) The Biobased Product or material is manufactured or processed using renewable, biomass energy or using technology that is demonstrated to increase energy efficiency or reduce reliance on fossil-fuel based energy sources; or
(ii) The Biobased Product or material is manufactured or processed with technologies that reduce waste and ensure high feedstock material recovery and use.
(3)
Environmental Product Declaration.
The product has a current Environmental Product Declaration as defined by International Standard ISO 14025, Environmental Labels and Declarations—Type III Environmental Declarations—Principles and Procedures.
(4)
Raw material sourcing.
(i) The raw material used in the product is sourced from a Legal Source, a Responsible Source, or a Certified Source as designated by ASTM D7612 (Standard Practice for Categorizing Wood and Wood-Based Products According to Their Fiber Sources); or
(ii) The raw material used in the product is 100% resourced or recycled (such as material obtained from building deconstruction or agricultural wastes); or
(iii) The raw material used in the product is acquired as a result of activities related to a natural disaster, debris clearing, right-of-way maintenance, tree health improvement, or public safety; or
(iv) The raw material used in the product is grown, harvested, manufactured, processed, sourced, or applied in other sustainable and ethically sourced ways as determined by USDA. Examples include but are not limited to rainforest and habitat conservation, wildlife protection, ethical workplace practices, and adherence to environmental management systems, such as ISO 14001.
§ 4270.5
Procurement programs.
(a)
Integration into the Federal procurement framework.
The Office of Federal Procurement Policy, in cooperation with USDA, has the responsibility to coordinate this policy's implementation in the Federal procurement regulations. These guidelines are not intended to address full implementation of these requirements into the Federal procurement framework. This will be accomplished through revisions to the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(b)
Federal Agency preferred procurement programs.
(1) Each Federal Agency will maintain and implement a procurement program that will assure that Qualified Biobased Products are purchased to the maximum extent practicable and that is consistent with applicable provisions of Federal procurement laws. Each procurement program will contain:
(i) A preference program for purchasing Qualified Biobased Products;
(ii) A training program to educate the Federal Agency and its contractors on the requirements for purchasing Qualified Biobased Products;
(iii) Provisions for the annual review and monitoring of the effectiveness of the procurement program;
(iv) Provisions for reporting quantities and types of Biobased Products purchased by the Federal Agency and its contractors through the BioPreferred Program Portal in the System for Award Management (
https://sam.gov
) as required by 48 CFR 52.223-2; and
(v) Provisions for reviewing and eliminating specifications that prohibit the purchasing of Qualified Biobased Products.
(2) In developing their preference program, Federal agencies will adopt one
of the following options, or a substantially equivalent alternative, as part of the procurement program:
(i) A policy of awarding contracts on a case-by-case basis to the vendor offering a Qualified Biobased Product composed of the highest percentage of Biobased Content practicable except when such products:
(A) Are not available within a reasonable timeframe;
(B) Fail to meet performance standards for their intended use, or the reasonable performance standards of the Federal Agency; or
(C) Are not available at a reasonable price.
(ii) A policy of setting minimum Biobased Content specifications in such a way as to assure that the required Biobased Content of Qualified Biobased Products is consistent with section 9002 of FSRIA and the requirements of the guidelines in this part.
(iii) A policy of documenting and reporting cases where it is not possible to award contracts and set specifications in such a way that is consistent with section 9002 of FSRIA and the requirements of this part.
(3) In implementing the preference program, Federal agencies will treat as eligible for the preference Biobased Products from designated countries, as that term is defined in 48 CFR 25.003 (Federal Acquisition Regulation), provided that those products otherwise meet all requirements for participation in the preference program.
(4) Each Federal Agency will continue to establish an annual targeted biobased-only procurement requirement under which the Procuring Agency will issue a certain number of biobased-only contracts when the Procuring Agency is purchasing products, or purchasing services that include the use of products, that are included in a Biobased Product category designated by the Secretary.
(c)
Procurement specifications.
Federal agencies that have the responsibility for drafting or reviewing specifications for products procured by Federal agencies will ensure that their specifications require the use of Qualified Biobased Products, consistent with the guidelines in this part. These specifications must be put in place no later than six months after a designated category of products is finalized and added to the Register of Designated Categories. USDA will identify the allowable time frame for specifications to be put in place in the Register of Designated Categories found on the BioPreferred Program website at
biopreferred.gov
. The Biobased Content of Qualified Biobased Products within a Designated Product Category may vary considerably from product to product based on the mix of Ingredients used in its manufacture. In procuring Qualified Biobased Products, the percentage of Biobased Content should be maximized, consistent with achieving the desired performance for the product.
§ 4270.6
Category designation.
(a)
Procedure.
Designated Product Categories are found in the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(1)
General.
In designating product categories, USDA will designate categories composed of generic groupings of specific products, Intermediate Ingredients or Feedstocks, or Complex Assemblies and will identify the minimum Biobased Content for each listed category or subcategory. As product categories are designated for procurement preference, they will be added to the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website at
biopreferred.gov.
(i)
Adding new product categories to the Register of Designated Categories.
If a product does not fall within a Defined Product Category that has been designated by USDA at the time the application for certification is submitted, the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content is 30 percent, and it will be listed in the other product category. USDA will evaluate the viability of designating new product categories to categorize products in the other product category more appropriately, following the procedure described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) New Defined Product Categories that are identified during the category evaluation process will be added to the Register of Designated Categories on the BioPreferred Program website
(
biopreferred.gov
). Using the data gathered during the certification process, USDA will establish a provisional category name, definition, and minimum Biobased Content for each new product category based on the product(s) that fall within the new category.
(B) The provisional minimum will be in place for a period of six months following the addition of the new Defined Product Category to the Register of Designated Categories. During that time, any product that falls within the category based on the category definition and has a Biobased Content that is either at least 30 percent or within 30 percentage points of the provisional minimum, whichever is higher, will be considered for inclusion.
(C) After a period of six months following the addition of the new product category to the Register of Designated Categories, USDA will re-evaluate the provisional category name, description, and minimum Biobased Content based on the data gathered during the year. At that time, USDA will make final the product category name, description, and minimum Biobased Content, and the category will no longer be considered provisional.
(D) Procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, are encouraged to give a procurement preference for Qualified Biobased Products that falls within provisionally designated categories and are required to give a procurement preference for Qualified Biobased Products that falls within designated categories no later than six months after the finalized product category is added to the Register of Designated Categories. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for products to be procured will ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of Biobased Products that fall within the designated categories.
(ii)
Revising Defined Product Categories on the Register of Designated Categories.
USDA will periodically evaluate the need to update the product categories included in the Register of Designated Categories by reviewing items including, but not limited to, the category names, definitions, minimum Biobased Contents, subcategories, and the need for the category or subcategory. If the data support making updates, USDA will amend the category and publish the updated category to the Register of Designated Categories. No later than six months after the amended category is published to the Register of Designated Categories, procuring agencies, in accordance with this part, will give a procurement preference for Qualified Biobased Products that fall within the amended designated category. By that date, Federal agencies responsible for products to be procured will ensure that the relevant specifications require the use of Biobased Products that fall within the designated categories.
(2)
Public comments.
Interested parties, including manufacturers, vendors, groups of manufacturers and/or vendors, and trade associations may propose an alternative Applicable Minimum Biobased Content for a new, provisional, defined, or Designated Product Category by, in consultation with USDA, developing and conducting an analysis to support the proposed alternative Applicable Minimum Biobased Content. If approved by USDA, the proposed alternative Applicable Minimum Biobased Content would become the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content for products that fall within that category to be certified.
(3)
Continued eligibility.
If the applicable required minimum Biobased Content for a product to be eligible to participate in the BioPreferred Program is revised by USDA, the product will remain certified or qualified, as applicable, only if it meets the new minimum Biobased Content level. In those cases where the Biobased Content of a certified or qualified product fails to meet the new minimum Biobased Content level, USDA will notify the Participating Organization that their certification is no longer valid. Such Participating Organizations must notify USDA of their intent to increase the Biobased Content of their product to a level at or above the new minimum Biobased Content level within 120 Days and must re-apply for certification within an additional 120 Days if they wish to continue to participate in the Program. The affected product's certification will expire if the Participating Organization does not notify USDA of the intent to reformulate within 120 Days or if the Participating
Organization does not re-apply within the additional 120 Days. Participating Organizations who have re-applied for certification may continue using the existing USDA Certified Biobased Product Label until they receive notification from USDA on the results of their re-application for certification.
(b)
Considerations.
(1) In designating product categories, USDA will consider the availability of Qualified Biobased Products and the economic and technological feasibility of using such products, including price. USDA will gather information on individual Qualified Biobased Products within a category and extrapolate that information to the category level for consideration in designating product categories.
(2) In designating product categories for the BioPreferred Program, USDA will consider as eligible only those products that use innovative approaches in growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of the Biobased Product. USDA will consider products that meet one or more of the criteria in § 4270.4(b)(1) and (2) to be eligible for the BioPreferred Program. USDA will also consider other documentation of innovative approaches in growing, harvesting, sourcing, procuring, processing, manufacturing, or application of Biobased Products on a case-by-case basis.
§ 4270.7
Determining Biobased Content.
(a)
Certification requirements.
For any Biobased Product seeking to participate in the BioPreferred Program, prospective Participating Organizations must submit an application as specified in § 4270.9 and confirm that the product meets the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content requirements and the definition for the Defined Product Category within which the Biobased Product falls. Paragraph (c) of this section addresses how to determine Biobased Content. Upon request, manufacturers and vendors must provide USDA and Federal agencies information to verify Biobased Content claims for Qualified Biobased Products.
(b)
Minimum Biobased Content.
Unless specified otherwise in the designation of a particular product category, the minimum Biobased Content requirements in a specific category designation refer to the organic carbon portion of the product, and not the entire product.
(c)
Determining Biobased Content.
Verification of Biobased Content must be based on third party ASTM/ISO compliant test facility testing using the ASTM Standard Method D6866 (Standard Test Methods for Determining the Biobased Content of Solid, Liquid, and Gaseous Samples Using Radiocarbon Analysis). ASTM Standard Method D6866 determines Biobased Content based on the amount of biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the product.
(1)
General.
Biobased Content will be based on the amount of biobased carbon in the product as a percent of the weight (mass) of the total organic carbon in the product.
(2)
Complex Assemblies
—(i)
Equation.
The Biobased Content of a Complex Assembly product, where the product has n components whose Biobased Content and organic carbon content can be experimentally determined, may be calculated using the following equation:
ER09DE24.691
Where:
M
i
= mass of the ith component
BCC
i
= biobased carbon content of the ith component (%)
OCC
i
= organic carbon content of the ith component (%)
(ii)
Proportional sampling.
The Biobased Content of an Assembly product may be determined by sub-sampling (by weight) each organic constituent in a proportion representative of its content within the assembly and
combining the sub-samples into a measurable quantity so that a single ASTM D6866 analysis of the combined sub-samples is representative of the assembly.
(d)
Products and Intermediate Ingredients or Feedstocks with the same formulation.
In the case of products and Intermediate Ingredients or Feedstocks that are essentially the same formulation but marketed under more than one brand name, Biobased Content test data may be shared as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Test exemptions.
In situations where a new product for which certification is sought is composed of the same Ingredients and has the same Biobased Content as a product that has already been certified and tested by a company that the interested party has a direct relationship with, the interested party may apply for a test exemption by referencing the Certified Application of the certified Parent Product in lieu of having the new product undergo Biobased Content Testing using ASTM D6866.
(2)
Families.
In situations where a Participating Organization is seeking certification for two or more products that are composed of the same Ingredients and have the same Biobased Content but are marketed for different uses or under more than one brand name, the products may be grouped in a family. Biobased Content test data must only be obtained for one of the products in the family, and the test data will apply to all products within the family.
§ 4270.8
[Reserved]
§ 4270.9
Initial approval process.
(a)
Application.
Prospective Participating Organizations seeking USDA approval to use the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label and to become qualified for preferred Federal procurement for an eligible Biobased Product must submit an application for each Biobased Product or product family. USDA has developed a standardized application form that must be used. The standardized application form and instructions are available on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
). The contents of an acceptable application are as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
General content.
The applicant must provide the information as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) though (viii) of this section.
(i) Contact information, including the name, mailing address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant.
(ii) The product's brand name(s) or other identifying information.
(iii) Intended uses of the product.
(iv) The biobased source(s) of the raw materials used in the product.
(v) Information to document that one or more of the Innovative Criteria specified in § 4270.4(c) has been met.
(vi) The corresponding Designated Product Category classification for preferred Federal procurement.
(vii) The estimated Biobased Content of the product.
(viii) A web link directly to the applicant's website (if available).
(2)
Commitments.
The applicant must verify in the application that the product for which use of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is sought is a Biobased Product as defined in § 4270.2. The applicant must also agree to statements in the application that commit the applicant to submitting to USDA the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section, some of which USDA will post to the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
), and to providing USDA with up-to-date information on this website.
(b)
Evaluation of applications
—(1)
Initial evaluation.
USDA will evaluate each application to determine if it contains the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section and to determine compliance with the criteria specified in § 4270.4. If USDA determines that the application is incomplete, USDA will contact the applicant via email with an explanation of the application's deficiencies. Once the deficiencies have been addressed, the applicant may respond to USDA with an explanation of how the application's deficiencies were addressed for re-evaluation by USDA, and USDA will update the application as needed. If the applicant does not provide a response within
90 Days, USDA will make the application inactive.
(2)
Prequalification.
(i) USDA will provide a written response to each applicant as quickly as practicable, but no later than 90 Days after the receipt of a complete application, depending on the responsiveness of the applicant. The written response will inform the applicant of whether the application has been conditionally approved, or prequalified, to move forward to Biobased Content Testing, or has been disapproved. After notification that the application has been conditionally approved, if any of the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section has changed, the applicant must provide updates to USDA (for posting by USDA on the BioPreferred Program website).
(ii) For those applications that are conditionally approved to move forward, Biobased Content Testing must be completed as described in § 4270.7. Test results obtained prior to the application being conditionally accepted or obtained in a manner that does not comply with this part cannot be accepted.
(iii) After Biobased Content Testing has been completed, USDA will evaluate the results and determine if the product meets the criteria described in § 4270.4(b). For those applications that meet the criteria described in § 4270.4(b), USDA will issue a notice of certification, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. A notice of certification must be issued before the use of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label can begin.
(iv) For those applications that are disapproved, USDA will inform the applicant in writing of each criterion not met.
(c)
Notice of certification.
Once USDA confirms that the test results document an acceptable Biobased Content, USDA will issue a notice of certification to the applicant that includes the date of certification, name of the product(s) covered by the certification, and certified Biobased Content of the product(s). Upon receipt of a notice of certification, the applicant may begin using the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label on the Certified Biobased Product and may advertise that the product is a Certified Biobased Product. Paragraph (c)(1) of this section presents the procedures for revising the information provided under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section after a notice of certification has been issued.
(1) If at any time, during the application process or after a product has been certified, any of the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section changes, the applicant must notify USDA of the change within 30 Days. Such notification must be provided in writing via email to USDA. Failure to notify USDA of any change made to a Certified Biobased Product may result in the violation actions described in § 4270.12.
(2) After receiving the notice of certification, the Participating Organization may request to display a Biobased Content percentage that is lower than the content measured by the ASTM D6866 test results but is greater than or equal to the applicable category minimums. Such requests must be sent in writing via email to USDA and must be approved by USDA.
(3) If, after reviewing the test results, USDA determines that the product does not meet the Applicable Minimum Biobased Content, USDA will issue a notice of denial of certification and will inform the applicant in writing via email of each criterion not met.
(d)
Term of certification
—(1)
General.
The effective date of certification is included in the notice of certification from USDA. Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) and (iv) and (d)(2) through (4) of this section, certifications will remain in effect for five years. The applicant will be notified 90 Days before the certification expires, at which time, the product must be re-tested in accordance with the procedure as specified in § 4270.7.
(i) If the certification is not renewed within the 90 Days, the product certification will expire, the product will no longer be a Certified Biobased Product, and the product information will be removed from the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(ii) If a Participating Organization whose product certification has expired wishes to renew the certification, the
participant must follow the procedures required for original certification.
(iii) All certifications are subject to periodic USDA auditing activities, as described in § 4270.15. If a Participating Organization fails to participate in such audit activities or if such audit activities reveal Biobased Content violations, as specified in § 4270.12, the certification will be subject to suspension and revocation according to the procedures specified in § 4270.12(c)(3).
(iv) If USDA discovers that a certification has been issued for an ineligible product as a result of errors on the part of USDA during the approval process, USDA will notify the Participating Organization in writing that the certification is revoked effective 30 Days from the date of the notice.
(2)
Reformulations.
If at any time during the term of certification a Certified Biobased Product is reformulated, the participant must notify USDA of the change. USDA will consider the changes and inform the participant if re-testing is required as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) If the product formulation or raw materials of a Certified Biobased Product are changed such that the Biobased Content of the product is reduced to a level below that reported in the Certified Application, the existing certification will no longer be valid for the product under these revised conditions and the Participating Organization and its Designated Representatives must discontinue affixing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to the product and must not initiate any further advertising of the product using the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. USDA will consider a product under such revised conditions to be a reformulated product, and the Participating Organization must submit a new application for certification using the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) If the product formulation of a Certified Biobased Product is changed such that the Biobased Content of the product is increased from the level reported in the Certified Application, and the raw materials are not significantly changed, the existing certification will continue to be valid for the product.
(iii) If the applicable required minimum Biobased Content for a product to participate in the BioPreferred Program is revised by USDA, Participating Organizations must follow the requirements specified in § 4270.6(a)(3).
(3)
Test exemptions.
For those products that are exempt from Biobased Content Testing as described in § 4270.7, the test exempt certification will expire at the same time as the Certified Application of the Parent Product.
(4)
Special considerations.
(i) For those Participating Organizations who have Qualified Biobased Products that are not certified as of January 8, 2025. USDA will solicit Biobased Content test data obtained using the ASTM D6866 test method. Participants who provide USDA with ASTM D6866 test data that has been obtained within the past five years from January 8, 2025 and whose products meet the requirements as described in § 4270.4 will receive certification for their products covered by the test data. The term of certification as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section will then apply.
(ii) Participants who have Qualified Biobased Products that are not certified as of January 8, 2025 and do not provide recent ASTM D6866 test results within three years of the publication of this rule will be required to have their products tested and certified as described in § 4270.7. If certification is not completed within three years of the publication of this rule, these Biobased Products will no longer be listed as Qualified Biobased Products on the BioPreferred Program's website (
biopreferred.gov
) and will be removed from the BioPreferred Program's website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(iii) For those participants who have Certified Biobased Products that have been certified for more than five years as of the date of publication of this rule, USDA will require that the certification be renewed as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section within three years of January 8, 2025. If an application for renewal is not completed within three years, the product certification will expire, the product will no longer be a Certified Biobased Product, and the product information will be removed from the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
§ 4270.10
[Reserved]
§ 4270.11
Requirements associated with promotional certification materials.
(a)
How participation in the BioPreferred Program can be promoted.
Guidance on promoting participation in the BioPreferred Program is provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. USDA will evaluate additional requests for uses of promotional materials or references to the Program and will offer guidance on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(1)
Participating Organizations.
Only Participating Organizations that have received a notice of certification, or Designated Representatives of the Participating Organization, may utilize certification materials provided by the BioPreferred Program. A Participating Organization that has received a notice of certification for a product under this part:
(i) May use the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label (in one of the approved variations, as applicable) on the product, its packaging, and other related materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, specification sheets, procurement sheets, procurement databases, promotional material, websites, or user manuals for that product, according to the requirements set forth in this section.
(ii) Is responsible for the manner in which the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is used by its companies, as well as its Designated Representatives, including advertising agencies, marketing and public relations firms, and subcontractors.
(2)
Other Entities.
Other Entities who have entered into a partnership agreement with USDA may use the BioPreferred Program's promotional certification materials to advertise or promote Certified Biobased Products in materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, websites, and promotional and educational materials. Other Entities may use:
(i) The Certification Icon;
(ii) The phrase “USDA Certified Biobased Product/Package/Product
Package,” as applicable; and
(iii) The BioPreferred Program name in general statements as described in paragraph (b) of this section, as long as the statements do not imply that a non-certified product is certified or endorsed by USDA.
(b)
Correct usage of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label and other promotional certification materials.
(1) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label can be affixed only to Certified Biobased Products and their associated packaging.
(2) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be used in material including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, websites, and promotional and educational materials to distinguish certified products from those that are not certified. The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be used in advertisements for both Certified Biobased Products and non-certified/labeled products if the advertisement clearly indicates which products are certified/labeled. Care must be taken to avoid implying that any non-certified products are certified.
(3) When educating the public about the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label, the watermarked sample version of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be used without reference to a specific Biobased Product. For example, the following or similar claims are acceptable: “Look for the `USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. It means that the product meets USDA standards for the minimum amount of Biobased Content and the manufacturer or vendor has provided relevant information on the product to be posted on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).” This exception allows Participating Organizations or Other Entities to use a sample USDA Certified Biobased Product Label in documents such as corporate reports, but only in an informative manner, not as a statement of product certification.
(4) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may appear next to a picture of the Certified Biobased Product(s) or text describing it.
(5) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must stand alone and
not be incorporated into any other certification mark or logo designs.
(6) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be embossed, stamped, or used as a watermark provided the use does not violate any BioPreferred Program brand standards or usage restrictions specified in this part.
(7) The text portion of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must be written in English and may not be translated, even when the certification mark is used outside of the United States.
(c)
Incorrect usage of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label and other promotional certification materials.
(1) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used on any product that has not been certified by USDA as a “USDA Certified Biobased Product.”
(2) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used in a way that does not maintain the integrity of the label and the BioPreferred Program.
(3) The word “BioPreferred” will not be used as a descriptor for anything other than the Program, including but not limited to products, categories, and companies. The BioPreferred Program name, the word “BioPreferred,” and the phrase “USDA Certified Biobased Product” are not interchangeable. For example, certified products may not be referenced as being “BioPreferred products.”
(4) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used on any advertisements or informal materials where both Certified Biobased Products and non-certified products are shown unless it is clear that the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label applies to only the Certified Biobased Product(s).
(5) The BioPreferred Program name and the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used to imply endorsement by USDA or the BioPreferred Program of any particular product, service, or company.
(6) The BioPreferred Program name and the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used in any form that could be misleading to the consumer.
(7) The BioPreferred Program name and the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used by manufacturers or vendors of Certified Biobased Products in a manner disparaging to USDA or any other government body.
(8) The BioPreferred Program name, the word “BioPreferred,” the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label, and the Certification Icon will not be altered or incorporated into other label or logo designs.
(9) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used on business cards, company letterhead, company stationary, or email signatures.
(10) The BioPreferred Program name, the word “BioPreferred,” the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label, and the Certification Icon will not be used in, or as part of, any company name, logo, product name, service, or website, except as may be provided for in this part.
(11) The BioPreferred Program name, the word “BioPreferred,” the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label, and the Certification Icon will not be used in a manner that violates any of the applicable requirements contained in this part.
(d)
Imported products.
The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label can be used only with a product that is certified by USDA under this part. The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label cannot be used to imply that a product meets or exceeds the requirements of biobased programs in other countries. Products imported for sale in the U.S. must adhere to the same guidelines as U.S. sourced Biobased Products. Any product sold in the U.S. as a “USDA Certified Biobased Product/Package/Product
Package” must have received certification from USDA.
(e)
Elements of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.
The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will consist of the Certification Icon, the Biobased Content percentage, the letters “FP” to indicate that the product is qualified for preferred Federal procurement, and one of the three variations of text specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable.
(1) USDA Certified Biobased Product: Product.
(2) USDA Certified Biobased Product: Package.
(3) USDA Certified Biobased Product: Product
Package.
(f)
Physical aspects of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.
The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label elements may not be altered, cut, separated into components, or distorted in appearance or perspective. The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must appear only in the colors specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section unless approval is given by USDA for an exception.
(1) A multi-color version of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is preferred. The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label colors to be applied will be stipulated in the “USDA BioPreferred Program Brand and Marketing Guidelines” document available on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(2) Black or white outline versions of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label are acceptable.
(g)
Placement of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.
(1) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label can appear directly on a product, its associated packaging, in user manuals, and in other materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, and promotional and educational materials.
(2) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be placed in a manner that is ambiguous about which product is a Certified Biobased Product or that could indicate certification of a non-certified product.
(3) When used to distinguish a Certified Biobased Product in material including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, websites, and promotional and educational materials, the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must appear near a picture of the product or text describing it.
(i) If all products on a page are Certified Biobased Products with the same Biobased Content percentage, the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be placed anywhere on that page.
(ii) If a page contains a mix of Certified Biobased Products and non-certified Biobased Products, the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will be placed in close proximity to the Certified Biobased Products. An individual USDA Certified Biobased Product Label near each Certified Biobased Product may be necessary to avoid confusion.
(h)
Minimum size and clear space requirements for the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.
(1) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be sized to fit the individual application as long as the correct proportions are maintained, and all elements of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label remain legible.
(2) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must be surrounded by a border of clear space that must be of sufficient width to offset it from surrounding images and text to avoid confusion. If a one-color outline version of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is used, the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must appear on a solid background that is a contrasting color.
(i)
Where to obtain copies of the promotional certification materials.
The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label and other associated promotional materials including the USDA BioPreferred Program Brand and Marketing Guidelines are available at the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
§ 4270.12
Violations of program requirements.
This section identifies the types of actions that USDA considers violations under this part and the penalties (
e.g.,
the suspension or revocation of certification) associated with such violations.
(a)
General.
Violations under this section occur on a per product basis and the penalties are to be applied on a per product basis. Entities cited for a violation under this section may appeal using the provisions in § 4270.13. If certification for a product is revoked, the Participating Organization whose certification has been revoked may seek re-certification for the product specified under the provisions in § 4270.9.
(b)
Types of violations.
Actions that will be considered violations of this part include, but are not limited to,
the examples as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1)
Biobased Content violations.
USDA reserves the right to request occasional testing of Certified Biobased Products without notice to compare the Biobased Content of the tested product with the product's Applicable Minimum Biobased Content and the Biobased content reported in its Certified Application. Such testing will be conducted using ASTM Method D6866 in accordance with the procedures discussed in § 4270.7.
(i) If the testing shows that the Biobased Content of a Certified Biobased Product is less than its Applicable Minimum Biobased Content, then a violation of this part will have occurred.
(ii) If the testing shows that the Biobased Content is less than that reported in the product's Certified Application but is still equal to or greater than its Applicable Minimum Biobased Content(s), USDA will provide written notification to the Participating Organization. The participant must submit, within 90 Days from receipt of USDA written notification, a new application for the lower Biobased Content. Failure to submit a new application within 90 Days will be considered a violation of this part.
(A) The participant can submit a new application to use the Biobased Content reported to it by USDA in the written notification.
(B) Alternatively, the participant may submit a new application and elect to retest the product in question. If the participant elects to retest the product, it must test a sample of the current product, and the procedures in § 4270.9 must be followed. USDA reserves the right to select the sample that will be submitted for retesting.
(2)
USDA Certified Biobased Product Label violations.
(i) Any usage or display of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label that does not conform to the requirements specified in § 4270.10.
(ii) Affixing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to any product prior to issuance of a notice of certification from USDA.
(iii) Affixing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to a Certified Biobased Product during periods when certification has been suspended or revoked.
(iv) Using an image or icon other than the official USDA Certified Biobased Product Label in association with certification claims.
(3)
Application violations.
Knowingly providing false or misleading information in any application for certification of a Biobased Product.
(4)
BioPreferred Program website violations.
Failure to provide USDA with updated information when the information for a Certified Biobased Product becomes outdated or when new information for a Certified Biobased Product becomes available.
(c)
Noncompliance and escalation of actions.
Any identified violations as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) are considered noncompliance with this part. USDA will respond to noncompliance through actions that include, but are not limited to, the examples as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4).
(1)
Noncompliance.
USDA will provide the applicable Participating Organization and any Other Entity involved, as known to USDA, written notification of any noncompliance identified by USDA, as well as actions that should be taken to resolve the noncompliance. USDA may remove the product or company information from the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
) until the noncompliance is corrected. If satisfactory resolution of the noncompliance is not reached, USDA will consider the noncompliance to be a violation of this part and may pursue further action as discussed in paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section.
(2)
Violation.
USDA will first issue a notice of violation. Entities who receive a notice of violation for any violation must correct the violation(s) within 30 Days from receipt of the notice of violation. If the entity receiving a notice of violation is a Participating Organization, USDA will also issue notices of suspensions and revocations, as discussed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. USDA reserves the right to further pursue action against these entities as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If the entity receiving a notice of violation is an Other Entity
(
i.e.,
not a Participating Organization), then USDA may pursue action according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(3)
Suspension and Revocation.
(i) If a violation is applicable to a Participating Organization and the participant fails to make the required corrections within 30 Days of receipt of a notice of violation, USDA will notify the participant, via email and certified mail as appropriate, of the continuing violation, and the certification for that product will be suspended. As of the date that the participant receives a notice of suspension, the participant and their Designated Representatives must not affix the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to any of that product or associated packaging not already labeled and must not distribute any additional products bearing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. USDA will both remove the product information from the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
) and actively communicate the product suspension to buyers in a timely and overt manner.
(ii) If, within 30 Days from receipt of the notice of suspension, the participant whose USDA product certification has been suspended makes the required corrections and notifies the USDA that the corrections have been made, the participant and their Designated Representatives may, upon receipt of USDA approval of the corrections, resume use of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. USDA will also restore the product information to the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(iii) If, following the 30-Day period, the participant does not make the required corrections, the certification for that product will be revoked. As of that date, the participant must not affix the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to any of that product not already labeled. In addition, the participant and their Designated Representatives are prohibited from further sales of the product to which the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is affixed, and the product will no longer be listed on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
) as a product qualified for preferred Federal procurement.
(iv) If a participant whose product certification has been revoked wishes to participate in the BioPreferred Program again, the participant must follow the procedures required for the original certification specified in § 4270.9.
(4)
Other remedies.
In addition to the suspension or revocation of the product certification, depending on the nature of the violation, USDA may pursue suspension or debarment of the entities involved in accordance with 2 CFR part 417 and 48 CFR subpart 9.4. USDA further reserves the right to pursue any other remedies available by law, including any civil or criminal remedies, against any entity that violates the provisions of this part.
§ 4270.13
Appeal process.
Participating Organizations whose product certification has been revoked may appeal to USDA.
(a)
Filing an appeal.
(1) Appeals to the Agency must be filed within 30 Days of receipt by the appellant of a notice of suspension and revocation. Appeals must be filed in writing via email to the BioPreferred Program's email address as noted on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(2) All appeals must include a copy of the adverse decision and a statement of the appellant's reasons for believing that the decision was not made in accordance with the applicable Program regulations, policies, or procedures, or otherwise was not proper.
(b)
Reviewing appeals.
(1) If USDA sustains a Participating Organization's appeal of a notice of suspension and revocation, the participant and its Designated Representative(s) may immediately resume affixing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to the Certified Biobased Product and sell and distribute the Certified Biobased Product with the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. In addition, USDA will reinstate the product's information to the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(2) If USDA denies a participant's appeal of a notice of suspension and revocation, then the notice of suspension and revocation stands.
(c)
Appeals of decisions made on appeals.
Appeals of any of the BioPreferred Program's decisions may be made to the Rural Business-Cooperative Service Administrator. Appeals must be made, in writing, within 30 Days of receipt of USDA's decision and addressed to: Rural Business-Cooperative Service Administrator, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250-1522 STOP 3250. If the Rural Business-Cooperative Service Administrator sustains an appeal, the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section will apply.
§ 4270.14
Reporting and recordkeeping.
(a)
Providing product information to Federal agencies
—(1)
Informational website.
An informational USDA website implementing section 9002 of FSRIA can be found at:
biopreferred.gov.
USDA will maintain a web-based information site for participating originations with Certified Biobased Products and Federal agencies to exchange information, as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section as applicable.
(i)
Product information.
The website will, as determined to be necessary by the Secretary based on the availability of data, provide the information specified in § 4270.9. USDA encourages Federal agencies to utilize this website to obtain current information on designated categories, contact information for Participating Organizations, and access to information on product characteristics relevant to procurement decisions. In addition to any information provided on the website, participants are expected to provide relevant information to Federal agencies, subject to the limitations specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, with respect to product characteristics, including verification of such characteristics if requested.
(ii)
Providing information on price and environmental and health benefits.
Federal agencies may not require Participating Organizations with Certified Biobased Products to provide procuring agencies with more data than would be required of other manufacturers or vendors offering products for sale to a Procuring Agency (aside from data confirming the Biobased Contents of the products) as a condition of the purchase of Biobased Products from the participant. USDA encourages industry Stakeholders to provide information on environmental and public health benefits based on industry accepted analytical approaches including, but not limited to, material carbon footprint analysis, the International Standards Organization (ISO) 14040, the ASTM International life-cycle cost method (E917) and multi-attribute decision analysis (E1765), and the British Standard Institution PAS 2050. USDA will make such Stakeholder-supplied information available on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(iii)
Industry standards test information.
The product information will include any relevant industry standard test information as supplied by the participant. In assessing performance of a Certified Biobased Product, USDA requires that procuring agencies rely on results of performance tests using applicable ASTM, ISO, Federal or military specifications, or other similarly authoritative industry test standards. Such testing may be conducted by a laboratory compliant with the requirements of the standards body. The procuring official will decide whether performance data must be brand-name specific in the case of products that are essentially of the same formulation.
(iv)
Biodegradability information.
If Biodegradability is claimed by a participant with a Certified Biobased Product as a characteristic of that product, USDA requires that, if requested by procuring agencies, these claims be verified using the appropriate, product-specific ASTM Biodegradability standard(s). Such testing must be conducted by an ASTM/ISO-compliant laboratory. The procuring official will decide whether Biodegradability data must be brand-name specific in the case of products that are essentially of the same formulation. ASTM Biodegradability standards include:
(A) D5338 (Standard Test Method for Determining Aerobic Biodegradation of Plastic Materials Under Controlled Composting Conditions);
(B) D5864 (Standard Test Method for Determining the Aerobic Aquatic Biodegradation of Lubricants or Their Components);
(C) D5988 (Standard Test Method for Determining Aerobic Biodegradation of Plastic Materials in Soil);
(D) D6006 (Standard Guide for Assessing Biodegradability of Hydraulic Fluids);
(E) D6400 (Standard Specification for Compostable Plastics) and the standards cited therein;
(F) D6139 (Standard Test Method for Determining the Aerobic Aquatic Biodegradation of Lubricants of Their Components Using the Gledhill Shake Flask);
(G) D6868 (Standard Specification for Biodegradable Plastics Used as Coatings on Paper and Other Compostable Substrates); and
(H) D7081 (Standard Specification for Non-Floating Biodegradable Plastics in the Marine Environment).
(2)
Advertising, labeling, and marketing claims.
Participating Organizations are reminded that their advertising, labeling, and other marketing claims, including claims regarding health and environmental benefits of the product, must conform to 16 CFR part 260 (Federal Trade Commission Guides for the Use of Environmental Marketing Claims). For further requirements on marketing claims associated with the BioPreferred Program, refer to the “USDA BioPreferred Program Brand and Marketing Guidelines” found on the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(b)
Records.
Participating Organizations will maintain records documenting compliance with this part for each product that has received a notice of certification, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The results of all tests, and any associated calculations, performed to determine the Biobased Content of the product.
(2) The notice of certification from USDA, the dates of changes in formulation that affect the Biobased Content of Certified Biobased Products, and the dates when the Biobased Content of Certified Biobased Products were tested.
(3) Documentation of analyses performed by participants to support claims of environmental or human health benefits, life cycle cost, sustainability benefits, and product performance made by the participant.
(c)
Record retention.
For each Certified Biobased Product, records kept under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be maintained for at least three years beyond the end of the certification period (
i.e.,
three years beyond the date the product's term of certification expires). Records may be kept in either electronic format or hard copy format. All records kept in electronic format must be readily accessible and/or provided by request.
§ 4270.15
Oversight and monitoring.
(a)
General.
USDA will conduct oversight and monitoring of Participating Organizations, Designated Representatives, and Other Entities involved with the BioPreferred Program to ensure compliance with this part. This oversight may include, but not be limited to, conducting facility visits to Participating Organizations that have Certified Biobased Products and their Designated Representatives. Participating Organizations are required to cooperate fully with all USDA audit efforts for the enforcement of the BioPreferred Program requirements.
(b)
Biobased Content Testing.
USDA will conduct Biobased Content Testing of Certified Biobased Products as described in § 4270.12(b)(1) to ensure compliance with this part.
(c)
Inspection of records.
Participating Organizations must allow Federal representatives access to the records required under § 4270.14 for inspection and copying during normal business hours.
(d)
Audits.
USDA will conduct an annual desk audit on an ongoing basis to verify that the product and company information supplied by Participating Organizations remain valid. Through the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
), Participating Organizations will be asked to confirm that they still manufacture the product, that the formulation remains the same, and that the information described under § 4270.9(a)(1) remains valid. Participants may also be asked
for additional supplemental information.
(1) If a Participating Organization indicates that their product or company information needs to be updated during an annual desk audit, these updates will be incorporated into the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
). If it is indicated that a product is no longer manufactured, the product information will be removed from the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
).
(2) If a Participating Organization fails to complete an annual desk audit, the participant will be considered to be in noncompliance with this part, and the Participating Organization and associated product information will be removed from the BioPreferred Program website (
biopreferred.gov
). USDA reserves the right to revoke product certification for failure to participate in an audit.
§ § 4270.16-4270.98
[Reserved]
§ 4270.99
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements in this part are approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0570-0083.
PARTS 4271-4273 [RESERVED]
Pt. 4274

# PART 4274—DIRECT AND INSURED LOANMAKING
Subparts A-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)
Sec.
4274.301
Introduction.
4274.302
Definitions.
4274.303
Review or appeal rights.
4274.304
Exception authority.
4274.305
Other regulatory requirements.
4274.306-4274.309
[Reserved]
4274.310
Eligibility requirements—intermediary.
4274.311
Eligibility requirements—ultimate recipients.
4274.312-4274.319
[Reserved]
4274.320
Loan purposes.
4274.321
Ineligible loan purposes.
4274.322-4274.329
[Reserved]
4274.330
Agency IRP loan conditions and terms.
4274.331
IRP revolving loan fund loan conditions and terms.
4274.332
Post award requirements.
4274.333
Loan agreements between the Agency and the intermediary.
4274.334-4274.339
[Reserved]
4274.340
Application content and submittal.
4274.341
Processing applications for loans.
4274.342-4274.344
[Reserved]
4274.345
Letter of conditions.
4274.346
Agency IRP loan closing.
4274.347-4274.350
[Reserved]
4274.351
Loan approval and obligating funds.
4274.352
Loan documentation for ultimate recipients.
4274.353-4274.359
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1932 note; 7 U.S.C. 1989.

# Source:
63 FR 6053, Feb. 6, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
Subparts A-C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Intermediary Relending Program (IRP)

# Source:
86 FR 72156, Dec. 21, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4274.301
Introduction.
(a) This subpart contains regulations for loans made by the Agency to eligible intermediaries. This applies to borrowers, ultimate recipients and other parties involved in making such loans. The provisions of this subpart supersede conflicting provisions of any other subpart. All complete applications received before December 21, 2021 will be processed, awarded, and serviced in accordance with the existing regulatory provisions in effect at the complete application date for the program under which the application was submitted. An intermediary borrower may use the Agency-prescribed self-election template, available at the USDA Rural Development website under “Details” in the RBCS IRP program section to have its existing loans, and any loans approved under the previous regulation but not yet closed, serviced under these provisions.
(b) The purpose of the program is to alleviate poverty and increase economic activity and employment in rural communities, especially disadvantaged and remote communities in partnership with other public and private resources, and in accordance with
State and regional strategy based on identified community needs. This purpose is achieved through loans made to intermediaries that establish a revolving loan fund for the purpose of providing loans to ultimate recipients to promote community development, establish new businesses, establish and support microlending programs, and create or retain employment opportunities in rural areas.
(c) Intermediaries are required to identify any known relationship or association with an Agency employee. Any processing or servicing Agency activity conducted pursuant to this subpart involving authorized assistance to Agency employees, members of their families, close relatives, or business or close personal associates, is subject to the provisions of 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D.
(d) Copies of all forms, regulations, and Agency procedures referenced in this subpart are available at USDA Rural Development's website under the “Resources” section, in the Rural Development National Office, or any Agency State Office.
§ 4274.302
Definitions.
The following definitions are applicable to the terms used in this subpart.
Administrator.
The Administrator of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service within the Rural Development mission area of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Affiliate.
Affiliate means individuals and entities are affiliates of each other when:
(1) One controls or has the power to control the other, or a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both. Factors such as ownership, management, current and previous relationships with or ties to another concern, and contractual relationships, shall be considered in determining whether affiliation exists. It does not matter whether control is exercised, so long as the power to control exists. Concerns owned and controlled by Indian Tribes, Alaska Native Corporations (ANC), Native Hawaiian Organizations (NHO), Community Development Corporations (CDC), or wholly-owned entities of Indian Tribes, ANCs, NHOs, or CDCs, are not considered to be affiliated with other concerns owned by these entities because of their common ownership or common management.
(2) There is an identity of interest between immediate family with identical or substantially identical business or economic interests (such as where the immediate family operate concerns in the same or similar industry in the same geographic area); however, an individual or entity may rebut that determination with evidence showing that the interests deemed to be one are in fact separate.
Agency.
The Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS) that has the responsibility to administer the Intermediary Relending Program (IRP).
Agency IRP loan.
An IRP loan from the Agency to an intermediary with established terms and evidenced by a loan agreement and promissory note between parties.
Agency IRP loan funds.
Cash proceeds of an Agency IRP loan received by an intermediary are considered Agency IRP loan funds.
Agricultural production or agriculture production.
The cultivation, growing, or harvesting of plants and crops (including farming) breeding, raising, feeding, or housing of livestock (including ranching); forestry products, hydroponics, or nursery stock; or aquaculture.
Aquaculture.
The commercial cultivation of aquatic animals and plants in natural or controlled marine or freshwater environments.
Citizen.
An individual who is a citizen of the United States or resides in any State in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence.
Community development.
Advancing livable and vibrant communities through coordinated approaches to economic, environmental, and human development by means of comprehensive business-based technical and financial assistance.
Conflict of interest.
A situation in which a person or entity has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that make it difficult for the person or business to act impartially, or there is a real or perceived benefit from engaging in certain projects or
transactions. Regarding use of both grant and matching funds, Federal procurement standards prohibit transactions that involve a real or apparent conflict of interest for owners, employees, officers, agents, their immediate family members, partners, or an organization which is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, having a financial or other interest in or tangible personal benefit from the outcome of the project; or that restrict open and free competition for unrestrained trade. Specifically, project funds may not be used for services or goods going to, or coming from, a person or entity with a real or apparent conflict of interest, including, but not limited to, owner(s) and their immediate family members and as stated in § 4274.321(b)(4).
Cooperative.
An entity that is legally chartered by a State in which it operates as a cooperatively-operated business, or an entity that is not legally chartered as a cooperative but is owned and operated for the benefit of its members, with the return of residual earnings paid to such members on the basis of patronage.
Hydroponics.
The commercial cultivation of plants by placing the roots in liquid nutrient solutions rather than in soil.
Immediate family.
Individuals who live in the same household or who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, such as a spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, stepchild, sibling, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, nephew, or first cousin.
Indian tribe.
The term as defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304(e); any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) [43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
], which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Intermediary.
The entity requesting or receiving, as applicable, Agency IRP loan funds for establishing or recapitalizing an IRP revolving loan fund and relending to ultimate recipients.
Intermediary equity contribution.
Represents an intermediary's investment in the IRP revolving loan fund, in the form of cash and unencumbered ownership in an amount determined by the applicant. This must be contributed to the IRP revolving loan fund prior to, or concurrently to, the disbursement of Agency IRP loan funds from the Agency. This contribution becomes restricted and must remain as equity in the IRP revolving loan fund subject to the provisions of §§ 4274.332(d) and 4274.341(b)(1) and (2).
IRP revolving loan fund.
A group of assets:
(1) Obtained through or related to an Agency IRP loan; and
(2) Accounted for, along with related liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as an entity or enterprise separate from the intermediary's other assets and financial activities.
Loan agreement.
The agreement, which utilizes the requisite OMB-approved form, between the Agency and the intermediary setting forth the terms and conditions of the Agency IRP loan.
Military personnel.
Individuals currently on active duty in the regular service, having enlisted from civilian or Reserve Officers' Training Corps status, or individuals on active duty in the regular service with more than six months until their anticipated date of release from service.
Principals of intermediary.
Members, officers, directors, and other individuals or entities directly involved in the operation and management, including those setting policy, of an intermediary.
Public agency.
Any State, Indian Tribal or local government, or any branch or agency of such government having authority to act on behalf of that government, to borrow funds and engage in activities eligible for funding under this subpart.
Revolved funds.
The cash portion of an IRP revolving loan fund that includes fees, principal, and interest payments received from ultimate recipients and is not composed of any Agency IRP loan funds.
Rural or rural area.
Any area of a State not in a city or town that has a
population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I), according to the latest decennial census of the United States and not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants.In making this determination, the Agency will use the latest decennial census of the United States. The following exclusions apply:
(1) Any area in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants that has been determined to be “rural in character” as follows:
(i) The determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of Rural Development. The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition. The determination that an area is “rural in character” under this definition will apply to areas that are within:
(A) An urbanized area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urbanized area of such a city or town; or
(B) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants that is within
1/4
mile of a rural area.
(ii) Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of Rural Development for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to the appropriate Rural Development State Director for recommendation to the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (1)(i)(A) or (B) of this definition and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within five business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Secretary will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Rural Development State Office website and the Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration. The Under Secretary will make a determination of the appeal in not less than 15 days, but no more than 30 days.
(iii) Rural Development State Directors may also initiate a request to the Under Secretary to determine if an area is “rural in character.” A written recommendation should be sent to the Administrator, on behalf of the Under Secretary, that documents how the area meets the statutory requirements of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of this definition and discusses why the State Director believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, topography, and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receipt of such a request, the Administrator will review the request for compliance with the “rural in character” provisions and make a recommendation to the Under Secretary. Provided a favorable determination is made, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor and request comments within 10 business days, unless gubernatorial comments were submitted with the request. A public notice will be published by the State Office in accordance with paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition. There is no appeal process for requests made on the initiative of the State Director.
(2) An area that is attached to the urbanized area of a city or town with
more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than two census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their Rural Development State Office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a rural area under this provision.
(3) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered rural and eligible except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be Rural if they are not urban in character.
(4) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered rural and eligible except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the Honolulu CDP, may be determined to be Rural if they are not urban in character.
(5) For the purpose of defining a rural area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency shall determine what constitutes rural and rural area based on available population data.
State.
Any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Technical assistance.
A function performed for the benefit of an ultimate recipient, or proposed ultimate recipient, that is a problem-solving activity that assists the ultimate recipient in selecting, initiating, or completing a project. The Agency will determine whether a specific activity qualifies as technical assistance.
Ultimate recipient.
An entity or individual that receives a loan from an intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund.
Underrepresented group.
U.S. citizens with identifiable common characteristics, (including, but not limited to, racial and ethnic minorities, disabled and/or gender) that have not received IRP assistance or have received a lower percentage of total IRP dollars than the percentage they represent of the general population.
Value-added agricultural product.
Any agricultural commodity that meets the requirements specified here. The agricultural commodity must meet one of the following value-added methodologies:
(1) Has undergone a change in physical state;
(2) Is a source of farm or ranch-based renewable energy; or
(3) Is aggregated and marketed as a locally produced agricultural food product.
Work plan.
A narrative provided by the intermediary that demonstrates the feasibility of the intermediary and its lending program to meet the objectives of the IRP program, including a set of goals, strategies, anticipated outcomes, and well-developed targeting criteria for assisting eligible ultimate recipients.
[86 FR 72156, Dec. 21, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 38644, June 29, 2022]
§ 4274.303
Review or appeal rights.
An intermediary may have appeal or review rights for adverse Agency decisions made under this part. Agency decisions that are adverse to the individual participant are appealable, while matters of general applicability are not subject to appeal; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD). All appeals will be conducted by NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§ 4274.304
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such an exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal government. Exercise of this authority cannot be in conflict with applicable law.
§ 4274.305
Other regulatory requirements.
(a)
Intergovernmental consultation.
The approval of an Agency IRP loan to an intermediary is subject to intergovernmental consultation in accordance with Executive Order 12372. For ultimate recipients located in States where the State has elected to review the program under the intergovernmental review process, in accordance with Executive Order 12372, the intermediary and ultimate recipient must submit a notification in the form of a project description to the State single point of contact. The intermediary must include any comments from the State with the intermediary's request to use the Agency IRP loan funds for the ultimate recipient. Prior to the Agency's decision on the request, the ultimate recipient must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of intergovernmental consultation. These requirements are set forth in 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, General Program Administrative Regulations.
(b)
Environmental requirements.
The requirements of 7 CFR part 1970 apply to this subpart. Intermediaries and ultimate recipients must consider the potential environmental impacts of their projects at the earliest planning stages and develop plans in order to minimize the potential to adversely impact the environment. Both the intermediaries and the ultimate recipients must cooperate and furnish such information and assistance as the Agency needs to make any of its environmental determinations.
(1) All IRP loans between the Agency and the intermediary are considered categorical exclusions absent the existence of extraordinary circumstances in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. All intermediaries must execute an Exhibit H, “Multi-tier Action Environmental Compliance Agreement,” to RD Instruction 1970-A as part of their IRP application submitted to the Agency. The intermediary must sign a certification that they have National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) staff capable of undertaking an environmental review that meets Agency standards. For intermediaries that don't have capable staff, the Agency will deliver sufficient training to intermediaries on the environmental process and how to determine whether an ultimate recipient project is a categorical exclusion or requires an environmental assessment and review.
(2) For each proposed loan from an intermediary to an ultimate recipient using Agency IRP loan funds, an environmental review will be completed in accordance with 7 CFR 1970.55. For projects that do not qualify for a categorical exclusion, or which may be subject to an extraordinary circumstance under 7 CFR 1970.52, the intermediary will refer the project to the Agency for review under 7 CFR part 1970, subpart C. The intermediary retains responsibility for providing sufficient information for the Agency to make an environmental determination, though Agency staff may also opt to complete the environmental review with information provided by either the intermediary or ultimate recipient.
(3) The Agency will prepare an environmental impact statement for any application for a loan from Agency IRP loan funds determined to have a significant adverse effect on the quality of the human environment.
(c)
Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements.
In accordance with Title V of Public Law 93-495, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act for Federally Conducted Programs and Activities, neither the intermediary nor the Agency will discriminate against any employee, intermediary, or proposed ultimate recipient on the basis of sex, marital status, race, color, religion, national origin, age, physical or mental disability (provided the intermediary or proposed ultimate recipient has the capacity to contract), because all or part of the intermediary's or proposed ultimate recipient's income is derived from public assistance of any kind, or because the intermediary or proposed ultimate recipient has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, with respect to any aspect of a credit transaction anytime any cash of the IRP revolving loan fund is involved.
(1) The civil rights compliance requirements contained in 7 CFR part
1901, subpart E, apply to intermediaries and ultimate recipients.
(2) The Agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, “Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs,” 42 U.S.C. 2000d-4, § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act for Federally Conducted Programs and Activities, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 (as amended).
(d)
Seismic safety of new building construction.
The IRP is subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12699, which require each Federal agency assisting in the financing, through Federal grants or loans, or guaranteeing the financing, through loan or mortgage insurance programs, of newly constructed buildings to assure appropriate consideration of seismic safety.
(1) All new buildings financed from the IRP revolving loan fund, whether directly or through participations, must be designed and constructed in accordance with the seismic provisions of the most current version of the International Building Code (IBC) or two versions prior; currently that is 2021 IBC, 2018 IBC or 2015 IBC, or an above-code seismic standard that meets or exceeds the equivalent level of safety to that contained in the latest edition of the National Earthquake Hazard Reduction Programs (NEHRP) Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for New Building (NEHRP Provisions.)
(2) The date, signature, and seal of a registered architect or engineer and the identification and date of the model building code on the plans and specifications constitutes evidence of compliance with the seismic requirements of the appropriate code.
§ 4274.306-§ 4274.309
[Reserved]
§ 4274.310
Eligibility requirements—intermediaries.
To be eligible to receive an Agency IRP loan, an intermediary must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.
(a)
Type of entity.
The intermediary must be one of the following types of entities:
(1) A private nonprofit corporation;
(2) A public agency;
(3) An Indian Tribe; or
(4) A cooperative.
(b)
Legal authority.
The intermediary must have the legal authority necessary for carrying out the proposed loan purposes and for obtaining, giving security for, and repaying the proposed loan. If the intermediary is an affiliate of another entity, the intermediary's governing board must be independent of the affiliated entity.
(c)
Proven record.
The intermediary must have a proven lending record of successfully assisting rural business and industry or, for intermediaries that propose to finance community development, a proven lending record of successfully assisting rural community development projects of the type planned. The intermediary must have the capacity to conduct outreach and marketing, the underwriting of loan applications, and provide the servicing and monitoring of its proposed IRP portfolio.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, such record must include recent experience in loan making and servicing with loans that are similar in nature to those proposed by the intermediary and a delinquency and loss rate acceptable to the Agency. Any request for an exception must be specifically addressed in the loan application and be supported with concluding statements that relate to the items specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) The Agency may approve an exception to the requirement for loan making and servicing experience provided the intermediary:
(i) Itself has a proven record of successfully assisting (other than through lending) rural business and industry or rural community development projects through technical assistance or business development projects to the type and size of planned ultimate recipient borrowers; and
(ii) Will, before the loan is closed, employ individuals with loan making and servicing experience and qualifications and expertise for the operation
and administration of an IRP revolving loan fund as described in § 4274.340(a)(1)(ii). These shall not include contracted staff and staff from affiliates of the intermediary.
(d)
Staff.
The intermediary itself must employ a staff with loan making and servicing expertise acceptable to the Agency. The intermediary may contract for general services, such as, clerical, administrative, and accounting services, and loan packaging. The intermediary may not routinely contract their lending outreach, loan underwriting, management, or day-to-day operations. Essential activities of a business lending operation and the administration of the IRP revolving loan fund must be conducted in-house.
(e)
Capitalization/equity.
The intermediary's balance sheet must have capitalization or equity acceptable to the Agency and deemed sufficient to sustain its lending and business operations.
(f)
Citizens.
At least 51 percent of the outstanding interest or membership in any nonpublic body intermediary must be composed of citizens.
(g)
Delinquent debt.
An intermediary is ineligible to receive an Agency IRP loan if the intermediary or any principal of the intermediary has any delinquent debt to the Federal government. Agency IRP loan funds cannot be used to satisfy the delinquent debt.
(h)
Conditions.
No loans will be extended to an intermediary unless:
(1) There is adequate assurance of repayment of the loan based on the fiscal and managerial capabilities of the intermediary itself; and
(2) The amount of the loan, together with other funds available, is adequate to ensure the continuation or establishment of an effective IRP revolving loan fund or achieve the purposes for which the loan is made.
(i)
Other financing unavailable.
The intermediary must be unable to finance the continuation or establishment of an effective IRP revolving loan fund from its own resources, or through commercial credit, or from other Federal, State, or local programs at reasonable rates and terms.
(j)
Restrictions.
Intermediaries established for the purpose of, or that predominantly use IRP loan funds for, the financial benefit of an affiliate through loan participations or other funding methods will not be allowed.
§ 4274.311
Eligibility requirements—ultimate recipients.
To be eligible for a loan from an intermediary under this subpart, an ultimate recipient must meet or comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(a)
Type of entity.
The ultimate recipient must be a legal entity that can incur debt, including but not limited to, an individual; a public organization; a private organization; or other legal entity.
(b)
Legal authority.
The ultimate recipient must have the legal authority to incur the debt and carry out the purpose of the loan.
(c)
Citizens.
An individual ultimate recipient must be a citizen. In the case of an entity ultimate recipient, at least 51 percent of the outstanding membership or ownership of the entity must be citizens.
(d)
Location.
The ultimate recipient project must be located in an eligible rural area, although funds may also be used for community projects that predominantly serve rural residents of a State. Predominantly serves means more than 50 percent of the ultimate recipient's service is to rural residents of a State.
(e)
Other financing unavailable.
The ultimate recipient must be unable to finance the entirety of the proposed project from its own resources, or through commercial credit or from other Federal, State, or local programs at reasonable rates and terms.
(f)
Legal or financial influence.
(1) The intermediary and its principals (including immediate families) must hold no legal or financial interest or influence in or with the ultimate recipient as this is considered a conflict of interest, as defined. However, this paragraph does not prevent an intermediary that is organized as a cooperative from making a loan to one of its members per § 4274.321(b)(4) of this subpart.
(2) The ultimate recipient must, along with its principals (including their immediate families), hold no legal or financial interest or influence
in or with the intermediary as per § 4274.321(b)(4) as this is considered a conflict of interest, as defined.
(g)
Delinquent debt.
An ultimate recipient is ineligible to receive a loan from IRP loan funds if the ultimate recipient or any of its principals has any federal delinquent debt or is debarred from engaging in business with the Federal government. IRP loan funds may not be used to satisfy any Federal delinquent debt or used to make an otherwise ineligible ultimate recipient eligible for IRP loan funds.
(h)
Fund usage.
Ultimate recipients must demonstrate, to the Agency's satisfaction, that loan funds will remain in the United States and the facility being financed will primarily create new or save existing jobs for rural U.S. residents.
§ 4274.312-§ 4274.319
[Reserved]
§ 4274.320
Loan purposes.
(a)
Agency IRP loans.
The intermediary must deposit the Agency IRP loans into the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund to provide loans directly to eligible ultimate recipients or in cooperation with banks and other lending organizations through loan participation agreements.
(b)
IRP revolving loan fund loans.
Ultimate recipients receiving loans from an IRP revolving loan fund must use those loans for business or community development projects and for projects that predominately serve communities and residents in rural areas.
(1) The Secretary may relend funds to eligible intermediaries for projects that:
(i) Promote community development;
(ii) Establish new businesses;
(iii) Establish and support microlending programs; and
(iv) Create or retain employment opportunities.
(2) Such loan purposes may include, but are not limited to, those purposes identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xx) of this section.
(i) Business and industrial acquisitions when the loan will keep the business from closing, prevent the loss of employment opportunities, or provide expanded job opportunities.
(ii) Business construction, conversion, enlargement, repair, modernization, or development.
(iii) Purchase and development of land, easements, rights-of-way, buildings, facilities, leases, or materials.
(iv) Purchase of equipment, leasehold improvements, machinery, or supplies.
(v) Pollution control and abatement.
(vi) Transportation services.
(vii) Start-up operating costs and working capital.
(viii) Interest (including interest on interim financing) during the period before the facility becomes income producing, but not to exceed three years.
(ix) Feasibility studies.
(x) Debt refinancing.
(A) The intermediary is responsible for making prudent lending decisions based on sound underwriting principles when considering the restructuring of an ultimate recipient's debt.
(B) Refinancing debts may be allowed only when it is determined by the intermediary that the project is viable, and refinancing is necessary to create new or save existing jobs or create or continue a needed service.
(xi) Reasonable fees and charges to the ultimate recipient are allowed only as specifically listed in this paragraph. Authorized fees include loan documentation and fees for recording a collateral lien, environmental data collection fees, management consultant fees, and other fees for services rendered by professionals in relation to the loan project. Professionals are generally persons licensed by States or accreditation associations, such as engineers, architects, lawyers, accountants, and appraisers. Additional charges to the ultimate recipient, whether by a fee or interest rate increase, for an intermediary's costs related to loan participations are not allowed. In addition, the intermediary shall not be charged fees related to the purchase or sale of a loan participation. The maximum amount of any fee will be what is reasonable and customary in the community or region where the project is located; provided, however, that all costs must be actual costs and shall not be marked-up beyond actual cost. Any such fees or charges are to be fully documented and justified.
(xii) Hotels, motels, tourist homes, bed and breakfast establishments, nonowner-occupied real estate, convention centers, and other tourist and recreational facilities except as prohibited by § 4274.321. These types of facilities are allowed when the pro rata value, supported by an analysis of the supporting real estate appraisal, of the owner's living quarters is deleted from the appraised value.
(xiii) Educational institutions.
(xiv) Revolving lines of credit provided the portion of the intermediary's total IRP revolving loan fund that is committed to, or in use for revolving lines of credit, will not exceed 25 percent at any time.
(A) All ultimate recipients receiving revolving lines of credit must reduce the outstanding balance of the revolving line of credit to zero at least once each year.
(B) The intermediary must approve all revolving lines of credit for a specific maximum amount and for a specific maximum time period, not to exceed two years.
(C) The intermediary must provide a detailed description, which will be incorporated into the intermediary's work plan and be subject to Agency approval, of how the revolving lines of credit will be operated and managed. The description must include evidence that the intermediary has an adequate system for:
(
1
) Interest calculations on varying balances; and
(
2
) Monitoring and control of the ultimate recipients' cash, inventory, and accounts receivable.
(D) If, at any time, the Agency determines that an intermediary's operation of revolving lines of credit is causing excessive risk of loss for the intermediary or the government, the Agency may terminate the intermediary's authority to use the IRP revolving loan fund for revolving lines of credit. Such termination will be by written notice and will prevent the intermediary from approving any new lines of credit or extending any existing revolving lines of credit beyond the effective date of termination contained in the notice.
(xv) Aquaculture and hydroponics, as defined in this subpart.
(xvi) Commercial fishing.
(xvii) Commercial nurseries engaged in the production of ornamental plants and trees and other nursery products such as bulbs, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of plants from seed to the transplant stage.
(xviii) Forestry, which includes businesses primarily engaged in the commercial operation of timber tracts, tree farms, and forest nurseries and related activities such as reforestation.
(xix) Value-added production.
(xx) Housing, only when related to community development projects and, limited to working capital, equipment, pre-business development costs, and other such business purposes. Agency IRP loan funds may be used to assist a housing project planner, a housing project builder, a construction sub-contractor (indirect soft costs such as architectural, engineering and legal fees), or for any other business-related aspect of a housing project that is separate from the sale and/or purchase transaction involved in transferring ownership of a single or multi-family dwelling. While the proceeds from a sale might be used by an ultimate recipient to repay an Agency IRP loan, an Agency IRP loan cannot be used to finance a residential housing purchase. Agency IRP loans may not be used to assist in the purchase of residential housing (single, multiple dwelling, etc.) as financial assistance moves outside of community development when the financial assistance (a mortgage loan) is requested for a purchase.
(c)
Participations.
(1) Loans made to eligible ultimate recipients by eligible intermediaries in cooperation with banks and other organizations through loan participation agreements shall be considered an eligible loan to an ultimate recipient for the purposes of this program. Loan participations are allowed in the IRP program, subject to the provisions of this regulation, with the intent to assist intermediaries in the management of their revolving loan fund, to meet the needs of larger ultimate recipient projects, and to promote cooperation in community projects where multiple lenders may be involved. In a participation, the lead
(originating) bank retains a partial interest in the loan, holds all loan documentation in its own name, services the loan, and deals directly with the customer for the benefit of all participants. All loan participants share in the credit risk of the associated loan up to the amount of their participation.
(2) Loan participant buyers are able to compensate for low loan demand or invest in large loans without servicing burdens and origination costs. Lenders selling loan participations can accommodate a larger credit while mitigating some of the risk by reducing their credit exposure.
(3)(i) Participation agreements between the lead lender and buying participants are executed with each transaction and must address, among other items:
(A) The obligation of the lead lender to furnish timely credit information and to provide notification of material changes in the borrower's status;
(B) Requirements that the lead lender consult with participants and obtain their consent prior to modifying any loan, guaranty, or security agreements and before taking any action on defaulted loans; and
(C) The specific rights and remedies available to the lead and participating lenders upon default of the borrower.
(ii) A Master (open ended) participation agreement between the intermediary and any lender is not allowed. All loans made through use of participation agreements must be to eligible ultimate recipients and for eligible purposes. The ultimate recipients, lead lender and all participating lenders must agree to be bound by the applicable requirements of this regulation.
(4) Participation in loans where 50 percent or more of the loan funds are used to refinance a lead lender's existing loans to the borrower are ineligible. The Agency does not consider take out or terming out a construction loan as refinancing.
(5) No more than 50 percent of an intermediary's loan funds may be used to purchase loans from any individual lender or affiliation of lenders, to prevent an exclusive relationship with a lender or lender holding company. Likewise, no more than 50 percent of the total intermediary loans to ultimate recipients may be sold or participated to an individual lender or affiliation of lenders. An exception to these limits may be requested by the intermediary and is subject to review by the Agency of the intermediary's lending portfolio, credit quality and overall use of loan participations.
§ 4274.321
Ineligible loan purposes.
(a)
Agency IRP loans.
The intermediary cannot use Agency IRP loan funds to pay for its administrative costs and expenses.
(b)
IRP revolving loan fund loans.
IRP revolving loan fund loans cannot be used for any of the purposes identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (13) of this section.
(1) Assistance in excess of what is needed to accomplish the purpose of the ultimate recipient's project.
(2) Distribution, payment, or loans to the owner, partners, shareholders, or beneficiaries of the ultimate recipient or members of their families when such persons will retain any portion of their equity, or control, in the ultimate recipient. This is not intended to prevent the sale of a business among immediate family members as long as the selling immediate family member does not retain an ownership interest and the price paid is deemed to be reasonable. This type of transaction is not an arm's length transaction and reasonableness of the price paid will be based upon an appraisal acceptable to the Agency.
(3) Charitable institutions and fraternal organizations that would not have revenue from sales, fees, or stable revenue source to support their operation and repay the loan.
(4) Assistance to Federal government employees, active-duty military personnel, employees of the intermediary, or any organization for which such persons are directors or officers or have 20 percent or more ownership.
(5) A loan to an ultimate recipient that has an application pending with or a loan outstanding from another intermediary involving an IRP revolving loan fund if the total Agency IRP loans would exceed the limits established in § 4274.331(c).
(6) Agricultural production. For the purposes of this program, Agricultural production does not include those activities specifically listed as eligible uses of IRP revolving loan fund loans in § 4274.320(b)(15) through (19).
(7) The transfer of ownership unless the loan will keep the business from closing, prevent the loss of employment opportunities in the area, or provide expanded job opportunities.
(8) Community antenna television services or facilities.
(9) Any illegal activity.
(10) Any project that is in violation of either a Federal, State, or local environmental protection law or regulation or an enforceable land use restriction unless the assistance given will result in curing or removing the violation.
(11) Loans to lending and investment institutions and insurance companies.
(12) Golf courses, racetracks, or gambling facilities.
(13) An entity is ineligible if it derives more than 15 percent of its annual gross revenue (including any lease income from space or machines) from gambling activity, excluding State-authorized lottery proceeds or Tribal-authorized gambling proceeds, as approved by the Agency, conducted for the purpose of raising funds for the approved project.
§ 4274.322-§ 4274.329
[Reserved]
§ 4274.330
Agency IRP loan conditions and terms.
(a)
Revolving fund.
The intermediary must place Agency IRP loan funds in the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund, and these funds must only be used to provide loans to eligible ultimate recipients per § 4274.320(a).
(b)
Loan closing.
Loan closing between the intermediary and the Agency must take place within six months of loan approval and obligation of funds, or funds will be forfeited, and the Agency will deobligate the loan.
(c)
Term.
The Agency IRP maximum loan term will be 30 years. Principal and interest payments will be scheduled at least annually. All Agency IRP loans will have interest-only payments scheduled for a maximum of the first three years following the loan closing. An intermediary may request a shorter interest-only period during the application process. All Agency IRP loans will automatically, fully amortize with principal and interest payments due in the fourth year on the anniversary of the closing date. The Agency IRP loan will fully amortize based on the total amount of the loan.
(d)
Interest rate.
The interest rate for an Agency IRP loan will be a fixed rate of one percent per annum over the term of the loan.
(e)
Security.
Security for all Agency IRP loans to intermediaries must ensure that the repayment of the loan is reasonably assured, when considered along with the intermediary's financial condition, work plan, and management ability. The intermediary is responsible for making loans to ultimate recipients in a manner that fully protects the interests of the intermediary and the Federal Government.
(1) Security for such loans may include, but is not limited to:
(i) Any realty, personalty, or intangible asset capable of being mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise encumbered by the intermediary in favor of the Agency; and
(ii) Any realty, personalty, or intangible asset capable of being mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise encumbered by an ultimate recipient in favor of the Agency.
(2) Initial security will consist of a pledge by the intermediary of all assets now in or hereafter placed in the IRP revolving loan fund, including cash and investments, notes receivable from ultimate recipients, and the intermediary's security interest in collateral pledged by ultimate recipients. Except for good cause shown, the Agency will not obtain assignments of specific assets at the time a loan is made to an intermediary or ultimate recipient. The intermediary must covenant that, in the event the intermediary's financial condition deteriorates or the intermediary takes action detrimental to prudent fund operation or fails to take action required of a prudent lender, the intermediary will provide additional security, execute any additional documents, and undertake any reasonable acts the Agency may request to
protect the Federal Government interest or to perfect a security interest in any asset, including physical delivery of assets and specific assignments to the Agency. All debt instruments and collateral documents used by an intermediary in connection with loans to ultimate recipients, including all documents representing an interest in a participation loan made pursuant to § 4273.320 of this chapter, must be assignable.
(3) In addition to normal security documents, a first lien interest in the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund account(s) will be accomplished by a control agreement satisfactory to the Agency. Agency signatures for withdrawals are not required. The depository bank must waive its offset and recoupment rights against the depository account to the Agency and subordinate any liens it may have against the IRP depository bank account. The use of Form RD 402-1, “Deposit Agreement,” or a similar form developed by the Agency's Office of the General Counsel is acceptable.
(f)
Loan limits.
(1) No loan to an intermediary will exceed the maximum amount the intermediary can reasonably be expected to lend to eligible ultimate recipients, in an effective and sound manner, within three years after loan closing. Only one Agency IRP loan will be approved by the Agency for an intermediary in any single fiscal year unless the additional request is from an IRP earmark that serves a different geographical area than the initial non-earmarked loan.
(2) The Agency IRP loan to an intermediary will not exceed the maximum award amount established by the Agency in an annual Notice.
(3) Intermediaries that have received one or more Agency IRP loans may apply for and be considered for additional Agency IRP loans provided that the outstanding loans of the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund are generally sound, the intermediary is in compliance with all applicable regulations and its loan agreements with the Agency, and either:
(i) The intermediary has insufficient IRP revolving loan funds available for lending to meet current and expected ultimate recipient loan demand. Funds available for lending consist of Agency IRP loan funds not yet disbursed by the Agency, revolved funds, and cash on-hand in the IRP revolving loan fund. Necessary cash reserves including, but not limited to, debt service reserves, may be deducted from the IRP revolving loan fund cash on-hand in determining funds available for lending. The intermediary must provide documentation acceptable to the Agency of the current and expected ultimate recipient loan demand; or
(ii) The Agency IRP loan will serve a geographic area not included in an area currently served by an existing IRP intermediary and it is not possible or feasible to expand the existing IRP loan's service area to include the new geographic area; and
(4) Total outstanding IRP indebtedness of an intermediary to the Agency will not exceed $15 million at any time.
§ 4274.331
IRP revolving loan fund loan conditions and terms.
(a)
Conditions and terms.
Loan conditions and terms made by an intermediary to an ultimate recipient from the IRP revolving loan fund will be negotiated by the intermediary and ultimate recipient.
(1)
Interest rate.
The interest rate must be within limits established by the intermediary's work plan approved by the Agency. The rate must be the lowest rate sufficient to cover the loan's proportional share of the IRP revolving loan fund's debt service reserve and administrative costs.
(2)
Repayment.
The loan term must be reasonable and prudent considering the purpose of the loan, expected repayment ability of the ultimate recipient, and the useful life of collateral, and must be within any limits established by the intermediary's work plan approved by the Agency.
(b)
Security.
The intermediary is responsible for adherence to prudent lending practices when obtaining adequate security on each of its ultimate recipient loans.
(c)
Loan limits.
Loans from intermediaries to ultimate recipients using the IRP revolving loan fund must not exceed the limits in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. In accordance with § 4274.321(b)(5), these loan limits
apply to ultimate recipients cumulatively based on all existing and pending loans from one or multiple IRP intermediaries. The loan limits of ultimate recipient loans made from Agency IRP funds may be based on the total amount of the Agency IRP loans awarded. However, should any portion of an intermediary's Agency IRP loan funds be de-obligated by the Agency, the ultimate recipient loan limit will thereafter be based on the actual amount of Agency IRP loan funds advanced to the intermediary and loaned out to ultimate recipients. Intermediaries with multiple IRP loans that have combined those IRP funds in accordance with § 4274.332(b)(6) may base their ultimate recipient loan limits on the combined amount of Agency IRP loans. The maximum amount of an IRP Agency loan made by an intermediary to an ultimate recipient, whether directly or held through loan participation and including the balance of any existing ultimate recipient loans, shall be the lesser of:
(1) $400,000; and
(2) Fifty percent of the originally-approved Agency IRP loan amount to an intermediary (including the unpaid balance of any existing ultimate recipient loans).
§ 4274.332
Post award requirements.
(a)
Applicability.
Intermediaries receiving loans under this program shall be governed by these regulations, the loan agreement, the approved work plan, security interests, and any other conditions which the Agency may impose in making a loan. Whenever this subpart imposes a requirement on loans made from the “IRP revolving loan fund,” such requirement shall apply to all loans made by an intermediary to an ultimate recipient from the intermediary's IRP revolving fund for as long as any portion of the intermediary's IRP loan from the Agency remains unpaid. This includes revolved funds. Whenever this subpart imposes a requirement on loans made by intermediaries from “Agency IRP loan funds,” without specific reference to the IRP revolving loan fund, such requirement shall apply only to loans made by an intermediary using Agency IRP loan funds and will not apply to loans made from revolved funds.
(b)
Maintenance of IRP revolving loan fund.
For as long as any part of an Agency IRP loan to an intermediary remains unpaid, the intermediary must maintain the IRP revolving loan fund. All Agency IRP loan funds received by an intermediary must be deposited in an IRP revolving loan fund. The IRP revolving loan fund can only be used for receiving advances from the Agency, making payments to the Agency, disbursing ultimate recipient loans, and collecting ultimate recipient loan repayments. This includes transferred IRP revolving loan funds from another intermediary as a result of a transfer and assumption. Interest earned, cash obtained from fees assessed from activities of the IRP revolving loan fund, etc. must remain part of the IRP revolving loan fund though these monies may be used to pay administrative expenses as provided below. All Agency IRP loan activity must be managed through the IRP revolving loan fund. The intermediary may transfer additional assets into the IRP revolving loan fund to cover any shortage at any time. The intermediary must deposit all cash of the IRP revolving loan fund in a separate bank account or accounts. The intermediary is prohibited from commingling other funds of the intermediary with the funds in the IRP revolving loan fund. Intermediaries may use an operating account, general fund, or Automated Clearing House (ACH) account to initially collect payments from ultimate recipients, as long as those payments are transferred to the IRP revolving loan fund within 10 working days of receipt or by the end of the Federal fiscal quarter, whichever occurs first. All moneys deposited to the IRP revolving loan fund bank account or accounts must be money of the IRP revolving loan fund, and such accounts must be properly secured in accordance with § 4274.330(e). The receivables created by making loans to ultimate recipients, the intermediary's security interest in collateral pledged by ultimate recipients, collections on the receivables, interest, fees, and any other income or assets derived from the operation of the IRP
revolving loan fund are a part of the IRP revolving loan fund.
(1) The intermediary can use the portion of the IRP revolving loan fund that consists of Agency IRP loan funds only for making loans in accordance with § 4274.320. The intermediary may use the portion of the IRP revolving loan fund that consists of revolved funds for debt service reserve and reasonable administrative costs, in accordance with this section, or for making additional ultimate recipient loans.
(2) The intermediary must submit for Agency approval an annual budget of proposed IRP revolving loan fund income and expenses including expected administrative costs. The annual budget must itemize income, including interest received from ultimate recipients, interest earnings on deposits, fees, and other income excluding principal recaptured from ultimate recipients, and expenses including interest repaid to the Agency, administrative expenses, liquidation expenses, loan write-offs, and other fees and costs excluding principal repaid to the Agency. The intermediary cannot use proceeds received from the collection of principal repayment by an ultimate recipient for administrative expenses. The amount removed by the intermediary from the IRP revolving loan fund for administrative costs in any year must be reasonable, must not exceed the actual cost of operating the IRP revolving loan fund, including loan servicing, and providing technical assistance, and must not exceed the amount approved by the Agency in the intermediary's annual budget. The administrative expenses that the intermediary charges to the IRP fund may never exceed the actual income earned on an annual basis. An intermediary can contract personnel for hire per § 4274.340(a)(1)(ii); but the intermediary may not routinely contract loan underwriting, management, or day-to-day operations. Essential activities of the IRP revolving loan funds must be conducted in-house.
(3) The intermediary must establish a debt service reserve fund. The purpose of the debt service reserve fund is to ensure that adequate cash is available for the annual IRP loan installment(s) in the event that the IRP revolving loan fund has insufficient cash to make these payments. The minimum amount of cash in the debt service reserve fund must be at least equal to the intermediary's cumulative, annual debt service requirements for all Agency IRP loans outstanding. This account should be established by the date of loan closing, but the minimum required cash balance does not have to be reached until the third anniversary of an Agency IRP loan closing. The minimum required balance must be maintained for the life of the Agency IRP loan thereafter. The debt service reserve funds can only be withdrawn when there is insufficient cash in the IRP revolving loan fund's other account(s) to make the annual Agency IRP loan installments, and such withdrawals require the prior written concurrence of the Agency. Any withdrawal that causes the cash balance to drop below the minimum amount required must be repaid to the debt service reserve fund as soon as possible, but in no event can such repayment be longer than six months from the date of withdrawal. The funding of this debt service reserve fund may not come from Agency IRP loan funds and must come from an unencumbered source.
(4) The intermediary must make any cash in the IRP revolving loan fund that is not needed for debt service or approved administrative costs available for additional loans to ultimate recipients. If the Agency determines that the intermediary has substantial amounts of Agency IRP loan funds available for lending that is not being regularly loaned out to ultimate recipients, the Agency may require, at its discretion, that those funds be returned to the Agency in accordance with paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
(5) The intermediary must deposit all reserves and other cash of the IRP revolving loan fund not immediately needed for loans to ultimate recipients or other authorized uses in accounts in banks or other financial institutions. Such accounts must be fully covered by Federal deposit insurance or fully collateralized with other securities in accordance with normal banking practices and all applicable State laws. The account must be interest-bearing if
feasible and any interest earned thereon remains a part of the IRP revolving loan fund. The intermediary cannot use funds for any certificates of deposit over a 30-day duration or for investments in securities. All instruments associated with the revolving loan fund must be liquid and not impose fees associated with the withdrawal or movement of cash.
(6) If an intermediary receives more than one IRP loan, the intermediary does not need to establish and maintain a separate IRP revolving loan fund for each loan. Instead, the intermediary may combine them and maintain only one IRP revolving loan fund, unless the Agency requires separate IRP revolving loan funds because there are significant differences in the loan purposes, work plans, loan agreements, or requirements for the loans. The Agency may allow loans with different requirements to be combined into one IRP revolving loan fund if the intermediary agrees in writing to operate the combined revolving funds in accordance with the most stringent requirements of the Agency. The combining of multiple loans in one IRP revolving loan fund does not preclude the intermediary from being able to individually track the activity of each Agency IRP loan. The Agency must be able to readily determine the ultimate recipient loans made from each Agency IRP loan.
(7) The intermediary may deposit their full equity contribution for the entire Agency IRP loan before the initial advance of Agency IRP loan funds or it may deposit its matching percent at each interval that loan advances are made by the Agency.
(8) IRP revolving loan fund funds are intended to be active mechanisms to enhance business development in rural communities. If Agency IRP loan funds have been unused for a period of six months or more, those funds in excess of $250,000 will be returned to the Agency unless the Agency concurs with an intermediary's request for an exception. Any exception would be based on evidence satisfactory to the Agency that every effort is being made by the intermediary to utilize the IRP revolving loan fund funding for loans to ultimate recipients in conformance with program objectives.
(9) The full measure of collateral must be made up of cash available in the IRP revolving loan fund, the debt service reserve, and the total outstanding balance of ultimate recipient loans. At all times, the sum of the IRP revolving loan fund, debt service reserve, and principal amount outstanding on performing ultimate recipient loans must equal 100 percent of what is owed to the Agency by the intermediary plus any equity contribution amount. Therefore, if any part of the collateral fluctuates to the extent that the minimum retention requirement falls below the 100 percent plus the equity contribution threshold, the intermediary must inject cash into the IRP revolving loan fund and or debt service reserve fund to ensure that the total collateral is maintained at the minimum required level.
(10) The intermediary must also file a Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) financing statement at closing in order to perfect the Agency's security interest in the ultimate recipient's promissory notes. The intermediary is responsible for covering the costs of filing as well as ensuring the necessary filings are renewed and recorded with the Secretary of State, or the equivalent tribal official as appropriate.
(c)
Agency oversight.
The Agency will monitor each intermediary based on progress reports submitted by the intermediary, audit findings, disbursement transactions, visitations, and other contact with the intermediary as necessary. The Agency will send written notices on payments coming due to the intermediary approximately 15 days in advance of the payment due date.
(d)
Return of equity.
An intermediary with an IRP loan(s) where the cash portion of the IRP revolving loan fund includes fees, principal and interest payments received from ultimate recipients and is not composed of any original Agency IRP loan funds, may annually request a partial or full return of their contributed equity under the following conditions:
(1) The intermediary is current in all payments to the Agency and in compliance with all elements of their loan
agreement and Agency reporting requirements;
(2) The ratio of intermediary equity to the Agency loan after the return of equity remains consistent with the initial equity injection percentage by the intermediary; and
(3) Any return of an intermediary's equity from the revolving loan fund must be approved by the Agency in writing and is limited to an amount that the Agency determines will not cause additional credit risk to the revolving loan fund or the Agency and is in compliance with paragraph (b)(9) of this section.
§ 4274.333
Loan agreements between the Agency and the intermediary.
The intermediary and the Agency must execute a loan agreement or a supplement to a previous loan agreement at loan closing for each Agency IRP loan. The Agency will prepare the loan agreement and the intermediary must review it prior to loan closing. The intermediary is responsible for compliance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement.
(a) The loan agreement will, at a minimum, set out:
(1) The amount of the loan;
(2) The interest rate;
(3) The term and repayment schedule;
(4) The provisions for late charges. The intermediary must pay a late charge of four percent of the payment due if payment is not received within 15 calendar days following the due date. The Agency will consider the late charge as unpaid if it is not received within 30 calendar days of the missed due date for which it was imposed. The Agency will add any unpaid late charge to the loan's principal balance, and it will be due as an extra payment at the end of the term. Acceptance of a late charge by the Agency does not constitute a waiver of default.
(i) A per diem amount will be shown on the late notice sent to the intermediary. The Agency will continue sending notices to the intermediary on the late payments or any further payments until the account is in a current status.
(ii) Interest will be computed on a 365-day basis unless legal documents state otherwise.
(5) The disbursement procedure. The Agency will disburse the Agency IRP loan funds to the intermediary on an as-needed basis after the loan agreement and promissory note are executed, and after any other conditions precedent to disbursement of funds are fully satisfied. Fund disbursement requests must be submitted with an intermediary's request for Agency concurrence in accordance with the provisions of § 4274.352(a). Only the amount of Agency IRP loan funds necessary to fund the given ultimate recipient loan request(s) can be requested by the intermediary and disbursed by the Agency. The intermediary's equity contribution may not be used for administrative costs. When lending, the intermediary's equity contribution must be loaned out prior to or on a pro rata basis with Agency IRP loan funds. For purposes of computing interest, the date of each draw down of an Agency IRP loan constitutes the date the funds are advanced under the loan agreement.
(6) The provisions regarding default. On the occurrence of any event of default (monetary or nonmonetary), the Agency may declare all or any portion of the debt and interest to be immediately due and payable and may proceed to enforce its rights under the loan agreement or any other instruments securing or relating to the loan and in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Any of the following may be regarded as an “event of default” at the sole discretion of the Agency:
(i) Failure of the intermediary to carry out the specific activities in its loan application as approved by the Agency or failure to comply with the loan terms and conditions of the loan agreement, any applicable Federal or State laws, or with such USDA or Agency regulations as may be applicable; or
(ii) Failure of the intermediary to pay within 15 calendar days of its due date any installment of principal or interest on its promissory note to the Agency; or
(iii) The occurrence of:
(A) The intermediary becoming insolvent, or ceasing, being unable, or admitting in writing its inability to pay
its debts as they mature, or making a general assignment for the benefit of, or entering into any composition or arrangement with creditors; or
(B) Proceedings for the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or liquidator of the intermediary, in whole or of a substantial part of its assets, being authorized or instituted by or against it; or
(iv) Submission or making of any report, statement, warranty, or representation by the intermediary or agent on its behalf to the Agency in connection with the financial assistance awarded hereunder which is false, incomplete, or incorrect in any material respect; or
(v) Failure of the intermediary to remedy any material adverse change in its financial or other condition (such as the representational character of its board of directors, loan making or policymaking body) arising since the date of the Agency's award of assistance hereunder, which condition was an inducement to the Agency's original award.
(7) Insurance requirements.
(i) Hazard insurance with a standard mortgage clause naming the intermediary as beneficiary will be required by the intermediary on every ultimate recipient's project funded from the IRP revolving loan fund in an amount that is at least the lesser of the depreciated replacement value of the property being insured or the amount of the loan. Hazard insurance includes fire, windstorm, lightning, hail, business interruption, explosion, riot, civil commotion, aircraft, vehicle, marine, smoke, builder's risk, public liability, property damage, flood or mudslide, or any other hazard insurance that may be required to protect the security. The intermediary's interest in the insurance will be assigned to the Agency, upon the Agency's request, in the event of default by the intermediary.
(ii) Workmen's compensation insurance on ultimate recipients is required in accordance with State law.
(iii) The intermediary is responsible for determining if an ultimate recipient funded from the IRP revolving loan fund is located in a special flood or mudslide hazard area. If the ultimate recipient is in a flood or mudslide area, then flood or mudslide insurance must be provided in accordance with 7 CFR part 1806, subpart B.
(iv) Intermediaries must provide fidelity bond coverage, or employee dishonesty insurance, for all persons who have access to intermediary funds. Coverage may be provided either for all individual positions or persons, or through “blanket” coverage providing protection for all appropriate employees and officials.
(A) The minimum amount of fidelity bond/employee dishonesty coverage required by the Agency will equal the total, cumulative annual debt service requirements for all Agency IRP loans. Intermediaries with fidelity bond/employee dishonesty coverage requirements through other Agency programs (
e.g.,
the Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program) must add the coverage requirements of those programs to the coverage requirements of this section in calculating the minimum coverage amount.
(B) Evidence of this coverage must be provided at, or prior to, loan closing and must be maintained for the life of the IRP loan. During the term of the loan, the intermediary must provide evidence to the Agency, upon request, that adequate fidelity bond/employee dishonesty coverage is in place.
(v) The Agency may also require the intermediary to carry other appropriate insurance, such as coverage for public liability, leasehold, and property damage.
(b) The intermediary must agree in the loan documents to:
(1) Not make any changes in the intermediary's articles of incorporation, charter, or by-laws that would impact the intermediary's eligibility for the IRP program or would adversely affect their ability to operate the IRP program in accordance with the provisions of this instruction and any other applicable laws, regulations, and executive orders without the prior written concurrence of the Agency. This pertains to the Agency's original IRP loan funds and revolved funds.
(2) Not make a loan commitment to an ultimate recipient to be funded from Agency IRP loan funds without first receiving the Agency's written concurrence;
(3) Maintain a separate ledger and segregated accounting for the IRP revolving loan fund;
(4) Provide to the Agency:
(i) An annual audit as described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, or any successor regulation;
(A) The financial audit report period may be different than the IRP reporting periods. Intermediaries must promptly provide the auditor with the records and documentation necessary for the completion of the audit following the end of the audit period. The audit report must be submitted to the Agency within the earlier of 30 calendar days after receipt of the auditor's report, or nine months after the end of the audit period as described in 2 CFR 200.512. Audits must cover all the intermediary's activities. Audits will be performed by an independent certified public accountant. An acceptable audit will be performed in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAAP) and include such tests of the accounting records as the auditor considers necessary in order to express an opinion on the financial condition of the intermediary. Compilations or reviews do not satisfy the audit requirement.
(B) It is not intended that audits required by this subpart be separate and apart from audits performed in accordance with State and local laws or for other purposes. To the extent feasible, the audit work should be done in connection with these audits. Intermediaries covered by 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, as codified in 2 CFR 400.1, should submit audits conducted in accordance with that regulation.
(ii) Quarterly or semiannual reports (due 30 days after the end of the period);
(A) Reports will be required quarterly during the first year after loan closing and, if all loan funds are not utilized during the first year, quarterly reports will be continued until at least 90 percent of the Agency IRP loan funds have been loaned out to ultimate recipients. Thereafter, reports will be required semiannually. Also, the Agency may require quarterly reports if the intermediary becomes delinquent in repayment of its loan or otherwise fails to fully comply with the provisions of its work plan or loan agreement, or the Agency determines that the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund is not adequately protected by the current sound worth and paying capacity of the ultimate recipients.
(B) These reports must contain information only on the IRP revolving loan fund. Information required to be included in these reports as well as detailed reporting instructions will be provided by the Agency through a revolving loan fund user manual (available on the USDA Rural Development Intermediary Relending Program website) or similar documentation, which may be amended from time to time;
(iii) Annual proposed budget for the following year that meets the requirements of § 4274.332(b)(2); and
(iv) Other reports as the Agency may require from time to time;
(5) Before the initial lending of Agency IRP loan funds to an ultimate recipient, to obtain written Agency approval of all forms to be used for relending purposes, including application forms, loan agreements, promissory notes, and security instruments. If the intermediary plans to sell participations in its loans made to ultimate recipients, the loan participation agreement and any planned interest rate spread or associated fees must be submitted to the Agency for review and concurrence;
(6) To obtain written approval of the Agency before making any significant changes in forms, security policy, or the work plan. The servicing officer may approve changes in forms, security policy, IRP revolving loan fund plan, or work plans at any time upon a written request from the intermediary and determination by the Agency that the change will not jeopardize repayment of the loan or violate any requirement of this subpart or other Agency regulations. The intermediary must comply with the work plan approved by the Agency so long as any portion of the intermediary's IRP loan is outstanding.
(7) To secure the indebtedness by pledging the IRP revolving loan fund, including all of its loans derived from the proceeds of the Agency loan award,
and pledging its real and personal property and other rights and interests as the Agency may require;
(8) In the event the intermediary's financial condition deteriorates or the intermediary takes action detrimental to prudent fund operation or fails to take action required of a prudent lender, to provide additional security, execute any additional documents, and undertake any reasonable acts the Agency may request, to protect the agency's interest or to perfect a security interest in any assets, including physical delivery of assets and specific assignments; and
(9) Funds not disbursed to the intermediary by the end of the 36th month of the IRP loan from the Agency will be deobligated and not available for disbursement to the intermediary.
(10) For revolved funds, the intermediary is responsible for continuing compliance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement until the Agency loan is fully satisfied and repaid.
[86 FR 72156, Dec. 21, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 18967, Apr. 1, 2022]
§ 4274.334—§ 4274.339
[Reserved]
§ 4274.340
Application content and submittal.
Intermediaries seeking to participate in the IRP program must submit an application in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. Intermediaries applying for a subsequent Agency IRP loan may instead submit a streamlined application in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. All intermediaries must submit their applications as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(a)
Intermediary application content.
A complete application will include forms as requested in the intermediary application checklist guide available on the USDA Rural Development Intermediary Relending Program website plus information identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (12) of this section.
(1) A work plan/narrative that demonstrates the feasibility of the intermediary's program to meet the objectives of this program. The work plan must include, at a minimum:
(i) A copy of the intermediary's policy and/or procedural manuals to assure the Agency that its mission and goals align with that of the Agency (
i.e.,
economic development, promoting rural America, regional and community development.)
(ii) Document the intermediary staff's ability in administering an IRP revolving loan fund. This includes but is not limited to providing a complete listing of all personnel responsible for administering this program along with a statement of their qualifications and experience. Their qualifications should detail their experience in loan making, loan monitoring, and loan servicing including liquidations. The personnel may be either members or employees of the intermediary's organization or on an as-needed basis and as allowed by this regulation, contracted personnel.
(A) Contract personnel may be used to train, develop, or supervise the intermediary's members or employees or to provide interim expertise while the intermediary develops relevant in-house experience. The intermediary may contract for general services, such as clerical, administrative, and accounting services, and loan packaging.
(B) The intermediary cannot use contract personnel for the primary functions of its lending program, such as credit analysis and loan underwriting. The intermediary is expected to make an independent lending decision for each ultimate recipient loan request.
(
1
) The contract between the intermediary and the person or entity providing such service must be submitted for Agency review.
(
2
) The terms of the contract and its duration must be sufficient to develop in-house expertise and to ensure the Agency loan is adequately serviced throughout its term. The contract must provide for termination at the request of the Agency whether or not for cause.
(C) If the Agency determines the intermediary's personnel lack the necessary expertise to administer the program, the loan request will not be approved;
(iii) Demonstrate a need for loan funds. At a minimum, the intermediary must either positively identify a sufficient number of proposed and known
ultimate recipients it has on hand to justify the level of Agency funding of its loan request, or include well developed targeting criteria for ultimate recipients consistent with the intermediary's mission and strategy for the IRP, along with supporting statistical or narrative evidence that such prospective recipients exist in sufficient numbers to justify Agency funding of the loan request;
(iv) Provide a set of goals, strategies, and anticipated outcomes for the intermediary's program. Outcomes should be expressed in quantitative or observable terms (
e.g.,
jobs created for low-income area residents or self-empowerment opportunities funded) and should relate to the purpose of IRP (
see
§ 4274.301(b)); and
(v) Provide specific information as to whether and how the intermediary will ensure that technical assistance is made available to ultimate recipients and potential ultimate recipients. Describe the qualifications of the technical assistance providers, the nature of technical assistance that will be available, and expected and committed sources of funding for technical assistance. If other than the intermediary itself, describe the organizations providing such assistance and the arrangements between such organizations and the intermediary.
(2) Demonstrate the sustainability of the IRP revolving loan fund by providing a pro forma balance sheet at start-up and projected balance sheets for at least three additional years including the accumulated debt service reserve; financial statements for the last three years, or from inception of the operations of the intermediary if less than three years; and projected cash flow and earnings statements for at least three years supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. The projected earnings statement and balance sheet must include one set of projections that shows the IRP revolving loan fund only and a separate set of projections that shows the intermediary organization's total operations. Also, if principal repayment on the IRP loan will not be scheduled during the first three years, the projections for the IRP revolving loan fund must extend to include at least one year with a full annual installment on the IRP loan.
(3) Provide documentation of any funds pledged and intermediary equity contribution that will be contributed into the IRP revolving loan fund to serve as security for the IRP loan and to pay for part of the cost of the ultimate recipient projects. Pledged funds and intermediary equity contribution must be in the form of cash and cannot be in-kind contributions; they also cannot be used as intermediary operating funds.
(4) A written agreement of the intermediary to abide with the Agency audit requirements.
(5) Complete organizational documents including: Articles of Incorporation (initial loan only), Bylaws, Certificate of Good Standing, a list of board members with contact and lending experience information, and evidence of authority to conduct the proposed lending activities (this could be satisfied with a statement from the intermediary's counsel).
(6) Document the intermediary's ability to commit financial resources under the control of the intermediary to the establishment of an IRP program. This should include a statement of the sources of non-Agency funds for administration of the intermediary's operations and financial assistance for projects.
(7) Demonstrate to Agency satisfaction that the intermediary has secured commitments of significant financial support from public agencies and private organizations.
(8) Provide evidence to Agency satisfaction that the intermediary has a proven record of obtaining private or philanthropic funds for the operation of similar programs to the IRP.
(9) Latest audit report, if available.
(10) The IRP revolving loan fund plan is a separate stand-alone document from the application and may be revised in the future. The IRP revolving loan fund plan governs the use of the RLF and must be developed by the intermediary and approved by the Agency. The plan must include a detailed explanation of the intermediary's fund administration policies and procedures in addition to planned fund use after the original IRP
loan funds in the RLF have revolved. Fund administration policies and procedures must also include information regarding the review and approval of loans from the fund, including participation loans. The revolving loan fund plan must be of sufficient and detailed information to provide the Agency with a complete understanding of what the intermediary will accomplish by lending the funds to the ultimate recipient and the complete mechanics of how the funds will get from the intermediary to the ultimate recipient, including participation loans. The IRP revolving loan fund plan must contain:
(i) The specific service area of the IRP fund including names of counties and or cities within the service area;
(ii) Borrower eligibility criteria, loan purposes, loan priorities, fees, rates, terms, loan limits and collateral requirements;
(iii) Details on the intermediary's application review and approval process;
(iv) Details on the method of disposition of funds to the ultimate recipient, monitoring of the ultimate recipient's accomplishments, the reporting requirements by the ultimate recipient's management; and
(v) A copy of the intermediary's ultimate recipient loan application package and sample loan documents (
i.e.,
application forms, debt instruments, collateral and security documents, etc.).
(11) Credit Elsewhere Certification (
see
Agency template available at the USDA Rural Development Intermediary Relending Program website).
(12) Prior to applying for program funding, a resolution by the intermediary's board of directors is required. At a minimum, the executive director of the intermediary must make the organization's board of directors aware of the possibility that the organization may be entering into a significant debt.
(b)
Streamlined applications.
Intermediaries that have an active Agency IRP loan may submit a streamlined application that includes the following:
(1) Submission of the information required under the Intermediary Guide (available at the USDA Rural Development Intermediary Relending Program website) and paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section except that the information required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be limited to projections for the proposed new IRP revolving loan fund.
(2) A statement that the new loan would be operated in accordance with the work plan on file for the previous IRP loan(s) may be submitted in lieu of a new work plan. Any substantial change to an existing work plan would require the submission of a new work plan.
(3) Intermediaries that have received one or more Agency IRP loans may apply for and be considered for additional Agency IRP loans provided that the outstanding loans of the intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund are generally sound, the intermediary is in compliance with all applicable regulations and its loan agreements with the Agency, and the revolving loan fund's liabilities do not significantly exceed their assets. The intermediary must have a reasonable plan to disburse any unused IRP loan funds within six months of loan closing in addition to showing the need for additional IRP funds in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(c)
Application submittal.
Intermediaries must submit the complete application in one package. The intermediary must file its application with the Agency State Office in the State in which the intermediary's headquarters is located. An intermediary headquartered in the District of Columbia may file its application with the Delaware/Maryland Rural Development State Office, Attention: Business Programs, 1221 College Park Drive, Suite 200, Dover, DE 19904.
§ 4274.341
Processing applications for loans.
(a)
Processing applications.
Applications are accepted in the Rural Development State Office on an ongoing basis. The Agency will review all applications received for eligibility and will score each application according to the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section. Eligible applications received by the Rural Development State Office by close of business on September 30, December 31, March 31, and June 30 of each year will compete based on score
ranking for available funds with other applications in that Federal fiscal quarter. If the quarterly application deadline falls on a weekend or holiday, the application deadline will be the next business day. The Agency will rank all eligible, scored applications each Federal fiscal quarter and will fund applications in the order of priority ranking using available funds for that quarter. The Agency will retain unsuccessful applications due to limited funding for consideration in subsequent reviews, through a total of four quarterly reviews.
(b)
Scoring.
The Agency will use a point system to determine an eligible applicant's priority ranking for available loan funds. Points will be awarded only for factors indicated by well documented, reasonable plans which, in the opinion of the Agency, provide assurance that the work plan items have a high probability of being accomplished. Application content must contain sufficient information to assess the applicant's ability to manage an IRP revolving loan fund and allow the Agency to assign priority points in accordance with the criteria discussed in this section. The Agency will award points using the criteria identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section. Any application that does not meet the minimum value for receiving points associated with a criterion will receive no points for that criterion.
(1)
Intermediary equity contribution for initial Agency IRP loan applications only (maximum 35 points).
The Agency will award points under this criterion if the applicant is applying for its first ever Agency IRP loan and will contribute cash matching funds to the IRP revolving loan fund. These funds must be deposited into the IRP account at closing and are subject to the same use restrictions as Agency IRP loan funds. These funds must be loaned out to ultimate recipients in conjunction with Agency IRP loan funds. The amount of cash matching funds contributed will be:
(i) At least 5 percent, but less than 10 percent of the requested loan amount—10 points.
(ii) At least 10 percent, but less than 20 percent of the requested loan amount—15 points.
(iii) At least 20 percent, but less than 30 percent of the requested loan amount—20 points.
(iv) At least 30 percent, but less than 40 percent of the requested loan amount—25 points.
(v) At least 40 percent, but less than 50 percent of the requested loan amount—30 points.
(vi) More than 50 percent of the requested loan amount—35 points.
(2)
Intermediary equity contribution for subsequent Agency IRP loan applications only (maximum 35 points).
The Agency will award points under this criterion if the applicant is applying for a subsequent IRP loan and will contribute cash matching funds to the IRP revolving loan fund. The Agency must determine that the applicant's performance under their current IRP loan(s) is satisfactory in accordance with § 4274.330(f)(3) in order to be eligible and receive points under this criterion. These funds must be deposited into the IRP account at closing and are subject to the same use restrictions as Agency IRP Funds and loaned out to ultimate recipients in conjunction with Agency IRP loan funds. Cash matching funds are not required of subsequent applicants, but points will be awarded if the amount of cash matching funds contributed will be:
(i) At least 5 percent, but less than 10 percent of the requested loan amount—10 points.
(ii) At least 10 percent, but less than 20 percent of the requested loan amount—15 points.
(iii) At least 20 percent, but less than 30 percent of the requested loan amount—20 points.
(iv) At least 30 percent, but less than 40 percent of the requested loan amount—25 points.
(v) At least 40 percent, but less than 50 percent of the requested loan amount—30 points.
(vi) More than 50 percent of the requested loan amount—35 points.
(3)
Community Representation (10 points).
Governing board of directors where 50 percent or more of its members consist of business, banking, civic and community leaders that are representative of the rural communities within the service area(s) that intermediary serves. These board members
are diversely spread across the service areas and represent at least 50 percent of the intermediary total service area. These board members are not employees of the intermediary. Statewide and national IRP lenders must have a board of directors with members that are also familiar with current economic conditions and the inherent credit risks of making and servicing loans outside of the intermediary's primary location to receive these points. Documentation in the workplan must address these qualifications.
(4)
Leveraging (maximum 25 points).
The Agency will award points if the intermediary will limit the funding of ultimate recipient project loans with Agency IRP funds. IRP revolving loan fund funds that consist of revolved funds may also be used as leveraging. However, any projects funded must continue to comply with the loan agreement and requirements of this subpart so long as any part of the Agency IRP loan remains unpaid. The intermediary's equity contribution will be the following percentages of an ultimate recipient's total project costs:
(i) At least 10 percent, but less than 25 percent of the total project costs—5 points will be awarded;
(ii) At least 25 percent, but less than 50 percent of the total project costs—10 points will be awarded; or
(iii) Fifty percent or more of the total project costs—25 points will be awarded.
(5)
Median household income (maximum 15 points).
The Agency will award points under this criterion based on the degree to which the median household income in the service area of the intermediary exceeds the poverty line for a family of four. For applicant intermediaries whose service area includes multiple locations or geographic areas, weighted averages based on the populations will be used in calculating the area's median household income. For median household income computations, applicant intermediaries will use income data from the latest decennial census of the United States, updated according to changes in the consumer price index as published annually by the Agency. The poverty line used will be as defined in section 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)), which will be published annually by the Agency. If the median household income in the intermediary's service area exceeds the poverty line for a family of four by:
(i) At least 50 percent, but not more than 75 percent, 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) At least 25 percent, but less than 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded; or
(iii) Below 25 percent, 15 points will be awarded.
(6)
Unemployment (maximum 15 points).
The Agency will award points under this criterion based on the extent to which the unemployment rate in the intermediary's service area exceeds the national unemployment rate. For unemployment computations, applicant intermediaries must use the unemployment data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, for the most current month available at the time of application in comparison to the national unemployment rate for the same month. If the service area is a single city, town, or Indian Reservation and current, monthly unemployment data is not available for that city or town, the current, monthly unemployment rate for the county (or Indian Reservation) in which the service area is located should be used. For applicant intermediaries whose service area includes multiple locations or geographic areas, a weighted average based on the populations should be used in calculating the area's unemployment rate. If the unemployment rate in the intermediary's service area is:
(i) Equal to, or less than 25 percent above the national unemployment rate, 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) At least 25 percent above, but less than 50 percent above the national unemployment rate, 10 points will be awarded; or
(iii) Fifty percent or more above the national unemployment rate, 15 points will be awarded.
(7)
Trauma (maximum 15 points).
Under this criterion, the Agency will award 15 points if 50 percent or more of the intermediary's service area is experiencing trauma due to a major natural disaster, as declared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), that occurred not more than
three years prior to the filing of the application for assistance. Intermediaries with proposed statewide and nationwide service areas do not qualify for these points.
(8)
Experience (maximum 30 points).
The Agency will award points under this criterion based on the number of years the intermediary entity has in successfully making and servicing commercial loans. If the intermediary entity itself has actual experience in making and servicing commercial loans, with a successful record, for:
(i) At least 1 but less than 3 years, 5 points will be awarded;
(ii) At least 3 but less than 5 years, 10 points will be awarded;
(iii) At least 5 but less than 10 years, 20 points will be awarded; or
(iv) Ten or more years, 30 points will be awarded.
(9)
Size of loan request (maximum 20 points).
The Agency will award points under this criterion based on the size of the intermediary's loan request. If the size of the loan request is:
(i) $500,000 or less, 20 points will be awarded; or
(ii) Over $500,000, and up to $750,000, 10 points will be awarded
(10)
Administrator (maximum 10 points).
The Administrator may award up to 10 additional points to an application to account for either or both of the items identified in below:
(i) The project meets the President/Secretary Initiative(s) (
e.g.,
local foods, regional development, persistent poverty, energy-related, etc.); or
(ii) The applicant's service area will include areas not currently served by existing IRP Intermediaries. Statewide and nationwide Intermediaries will not be considered for Administrator points with regard to whether an area is currently covered by an existing IRP fund.
§ 4274.342-§ 4274.344
[Reserved]
§ 4274.345
Letter of conditions.
The Agency will provide the successful intermediary with a letter of conditions listing all requirements for the loan. Immediately after reviewing the conditions and requirements in the letter of conditions, the intermediary must complete, sign, and return the requisite forms provided by the Agency indicating the intermediary's intent to meet the conditions and the request of obligation of funds. If the intermediary identifies certain conditions that cannot be met, the intermediary may propose alternate conditions to the Agency. The Agency must approve in writing of any proposed changes made to the initially issued or proposed letter of conditions prior to acceptance and finalization
§ 4274.346
Agency IRP loan closing.
(a) At the time the Agency IRP loan is closed, the intermediary must certify to each condition identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) No major changes have been made in the work plan except those approved in the interim by the Agency.
(2) All requirements of the letter of conditions have been met.
(3) There has been no material adverse change in the intermediary's financial condition, nor any other material adverse change in the intermediary, for any reason, during the period of time from the Agency's loan approval to loan closing regardless of the cause or causes of the change and whether or not the change or causes of the change were within the intermediary's control. Any material adverse change must be explained by the intermediary. The Agency, at its sole discretion, will consider any such change and determine if it is significant enough to prevent the loan closing or disbursement of IRP loan funds to the intermediary.
(4) There are no claims or liens of laborers, materialmen, contractors, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment, or other parties pending against the security of the intermediary, and that no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the security of the intermediary when the security instruments are filed.
(5) Certification that the intermediary has received Agency staff training on how to distinguish a required environmental review from a categorical exclusion in accordance with § 4274.305(b).
(b) The Agency will consider all requested changes submitted in writing
to the Agency but will only approve changes that do not materially affect the IRP project, its capacity, employment, original projections, or credit factors.
§ 4274.347-§ 4274.350
[Reserved]
§ 4274.351
Loan approval and obligating funds.
(a) The loan will be considered approved on the date that the obligation of funds document (
Form RD 1940-1, Request for Obligation of Funds
), is signed by the Agency. Agency IRP loans not closed within six months of approval by the Agency will be deobligated and the loan funds will no longer be available to the intermediary.
(b) An obligation of funds established for an intermediary may be transferred by the Agency to a different (substituted) intermediary provided:
(1) The substituted intermediary is eligible to receive the assistance approved for the original intermediary;
(2) The substituted intermediary bears a close and genuine relationship to the original intermediary; and
(3) The need for and scope of the project and the purposes for which Agency IRP loan funds will be used remain substantially unchanged.
§ 4274.352
Loan documentation for ultimate recipients.
(a)
Agency IRP loans.
Prior Agency concurrence is required when an intermediary makes loans to an ultimate recipient from its Agency IRP loan funds (this applies to each Agency IRP loan received). A request for Agency concurrence in approval of a proposed loan to an ultimate recipient, whether made directly or through a loan participation purchase, must contain or comply with, as appropriate, the items identified in paragraph (b)(1) through (5) of this section and must include information listed in the IRP Revolving Loan Fund File Checklist, on the Agency website at the USDA Rural Development Intermediary Relending Program website:
(1) Certification by the intermediary that:
(i) The ultimate recipient is eligible for the loan;
(ii) The loan is for an eligible purpose;
(iii) Agency IRP loan funds are not more than 75 percent of the total project costs;
(iv) The loan complies with all applicable statutes and regulations;
(v) The ultimate recipient is unable to finance the proposed project through commercial credit or other Federal, State, or local programs at reasonable rates and terms; and
(vi) The intermediary and its principal officers (including immediate family) hold no legal or financial interest or influence in the ultimate recipient, and the ultimate recipient and its principal officers (including immediate family) hold no legal or financial interest or influence in the intermediary. The interest and influence of a cooperative member when the intermediary is a cooperative is an allowable exception to this paragraph.
(2) A completed and executed request for environmental information on a form provided by the Agency for projects that meet the criteria for a NEPA review categorical exclusion, NEPA environmental assessment or NEPA environmental impact statement in accordance with § 4274.305(b)(2).
(3) All comments obtained in accordance with § 4274.305(a) regarding intergovernmental consultation (if required).
(4) Copies of sufficient material from the ultimate recipient's application and the intermediary's related files to allow the Agency to determine the:
(i) Name, address, Unique Entity Identifier, Federal ID number, and North American Classification System (NAICS) Code of the ultimate recipient;
(ii) Loan purpose;
(iii) Interest rate and term;
(iv) Location, nature, and scope of the project being financed;
(v) Uses and sources of funds; and
(vi) Nature and lien priority of the collateral.
(5) Such other information as the Agency may request.
(b)
Revolved IRP loan funds.
An intermediary may use revolved funds to make loans to ultimate recipients in accordance with § 4274.320(b) without obtaining prior Agency concurrence as
required in § 4274.352(a) and are also exempted from completion of items required by paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section.
[86 FR 72156, Dec. 21, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]
§ 4274.353-§ 4274.359
[Reserved]
Pt. 4279

# PART 4279—GUARANTEED LOANMAKING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
4279.1
Introduction.
4279.2
Definitions and abbreviations.
4279.3-4279.14
[Reserved]
4279.15
Exception authority.
4279.16
Appeals.
4279.17-4279.28
[Reserved]
4279.29
Eligible lenders.
4279.30
Lenders' functions and responsibilities.
4279.31-4279.43
[Reserved]
4279.44
Access to records.
4279.45-4279.58
[Reserved]
4279.59
Environmental requirements.
4279.60
Civil rights impact analysis.
4279.61
Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
4279.62-4279.70
[Reserved]
4279.71
Public bodies and nonprofit corporations.
4279.72
Conditions of guarantee.
4279.73-4279.74
[Reserved]
4279.75
Sale or assignment of guaranteed loan.
4279.76
[Reserved]
4279.77
Minimum retention.
4279.78
Repurchase from holder.
4279.79-4279.83
[Reserved]
4279.84
Replacement of document.
4279.85-4279.99
[Reserved]
4279.100
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Business and Industry Loans
4279.101
Introduction.
4279.102
Definitions and abbreviations.
4279.103
Exception authority.
4279.104
Appeals.
4279.105-4279.107
[Reserved]
4279.108
Eligible borrowers.
4279.109-4279.112
[Reserved]
4279.113
Eligible uses of funds.
4279.114
[Reserved]
4279.115
Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
4279.116
New Markets Tax Credit program.
4279.117
Ineligible purposes and entity types.
4279.118
[Reserved]
4279.119
Loan guarantee limits.
4279.120
Fees and charges.
4279.121-4279.124
[Reserved]
4279.125
Interest rates.
4279.126
Loan terms.
4279.127-4279.130
[Reserved]
4279.131
Credit quality.
4279.132
Personal and corporate guarantees.
4279.133-4279.135
[Reserved]
4279.136
Insurance.
4279.137
Financial statements.
4279.138-4279.143
[Reserved]
4279.144
Appraisals.
4279.145-4279.149
[Reserved]
4279.150
Feasibility studies.
4279.151-4279.160
[Reserved]
4279.161
Filing preapplications and applications.
4279.162
Strategic economic and community development.
4279.163-4279.164
[Reserved]
4279.165
Evaluation of application.
4279.166
Loan priority scoring.
4279.167
Planning and performing development.
4279.168
Timeframe for processing applications.
4279.169-4279.172
[Reserved]
4279.173
Loan approval and obligating funds.
4279.174
Transfer of lenders.
4279.175-4279.179
[Reserved]
4279.180
Changes in borrower.
4279.181
Conditions precedent to issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee.
4279.182-4279.186
[Reserved]
4279.187
Refusal to execute Loan Note Guarantee.
4279.188-4279.189
[Reserved]
4279.190
Business and Industry national COVID-19 Public Health Emergency Loans.
4279.191-4279.199
[Reserved]
4279.200
OMB control number.

# Subpart C—Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans

# General
4279.201
Purpose and scope.
4279.202
Definitions and abbreviations.
4279.203
Exception authority.
4279.204
Appeals.
4279.205
Prohibition under Agency programs.
4279.206
Agency representation.
4279.207
[Reserved]

# Eligibility Requirements
4279.208
Lender eligibility requirements.
4279.209
Borrower eligibility requirements.
4279.210
Project eligibility requirements.
4279.211-4279.213
[Reserved]

# Lender Functions and Responsibilities
4279.214
General functions and responsibilities.
4279.215
Credit evaluation.
4279.216
Environmental responsibilities.
4279.217
Oversight and monitoring.
4279.218-4279.219
[Reserved]

# Conditions of Guarantee
4279.220
General conditions of guarantee.
4279.221
Rights and liabilities.
4279.222
Payments.
4279.223
Sale or assignment of guaranteed loan.
4279.224
Minimum retention.
4279.225
Repurchase from Holder.
4279.226
Replacement of document.
4279.227
Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
4279.228-4279.230
[Reserved]

# Loan Processing
4279.231
Fees.
4279.232
Guaranteed loan funding.
4279.233
Interest rates.
4279.234
Terms of loan.
4279.235
Collateral.
4279.236-4279.242
[Reserved]
4279.243
Insurance.
4279.244
Appraisals.
4279.245
Personal and corporate guarantees.
4279.246-4279.255
[Reserved]
4279.256
Construction planning and performing development.
4279.257-4279.258
[Reserved]
4279.259
Borrower responsibilities.

# Applications
4279.260
Guarantee applications—general.
4279.261
Application for loan guarantee content.
4279.262-4279.264
[Reserved]
4279.265
Guarantee application processing.
4279.266
Guarantee application scoring.
4279.267
Selecting guarantee applications.
4279.268-4279.277
[Reserved]
4279.278
Loan approval and obligating funds.
4279.279
Transfer of Lenders.
4279.280
Changes in Borrowers.
4279.281
Conditions precedent to issuance of Loan Note Guarantee.
4279.282
[Reserved]
4279.283
Refusal to execute Loan Note Guarantee.
4279.284-4279.289
[Reserved]
4279.290
Requirements after Project construction.
4279.291-4279.299
[Reserved]
4279.300
OMB control number.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 1989: 7 U.S.C. 1932(a); and Public Law 116-136, Division B, Title I.

# Source:
61 FR 67633, Dec. 23, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
81 FR 35997, June 3, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4279.1
Introduction.
(a) As of October 1, 2020, this subpart is specifically applicable to and only contains regulations for Business and Industry loans under the authority of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (Pub. L. 116-136) to provide B
I guarantees for loans needed as a result of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic for working capital loan purposes to support business operations and facilities in rural areas (B
I CARES Act Program Loans). Some of the requirements of this subpart are waived or altered for B
I CARES Act Program Loans. The waivers and alterations are provided in § 4279.190 of this subpart. Other than B
I CARES Act Program Loans, this subpart is no longer used for making Business and Industry (B
I) loans guaranteed by the Agency. Subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter is retained for servicing B
I CARES Act Program Loans and B
I loans guaranteed by the Agency prior to October 1, 2020. Requirements for B
I loans guaranteed by the Agency after October 1, 2020 (other than B
I CARES Act Loans) may be found at 7 CFR part 5001.
(b) The lender is responsible for ascertaining that all requirements for making, securing, servicing, and collecting the loan are complied with.
(c) Whether specifically stated or not, whenever Agency approval is required, it must be in writing. Copies of all forms and regulations referenced in this subpart may be obtained from any Agency office and from the USDA Rural Development Web site at
http://www.rd.usda.gov/publications.
Whenever a form is designated in this subpart, it is initially capitalized and its reference includes predecessor and successor forms, if applicable.
[81 FR 35997, June 3, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 31040, May 22, 2020; 85 FR 62196, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 4279.2
Definitions and abbreviations.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
Administrator.
The Administrator of Rural Business-Cooperative Service within the Rural Development mission
area of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Affiliate.
An entity that is related to another entity by owning shares or having an interest in the entity, by common ownership, or by any means of control.
Agency.
The Rural Business-Cooperative Service or successor Agency assigned by the Secretary of Agriculture to administer the B
I Guaranteed Loan Program. References to the National or State Office should be read as prefaced by “Agency” or “Rural Development” as applicable.
Agricultural production.
The breeding, raising, feeding, or housing of livestock for fiber or food for human consumption and the cultivation, growing, or harvesting of crops.
Annual renewal fee.
The annual renewal fee is a fee that is paid once a year by the lender and is required to maintain the enforceability of the Loan Note Guarantee.
Appraisal surplus.
The difference between the fair market value of an asset and its depreciated book value when the fair market value is higher.
Arm's-length transaction.
A transaction between ready, willing, and able disinterested parties that are not affiliated with or related to each other and have no security, monetary, or stockholder interest in each other.
Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
Form RD 4279-6, “Assignment Guarantee Agreement,” is the signed agreement among the Agency, the lender, and the holder containing the terms and conditions of an assignment of a guaranteed portion of a loan, using the single note system.
Bankruptcy Code.
The provisions of title 11 of the United States Code or any successor statute.
Biofuel.
A fuel derived from Renewable Biomass.
Bond.
A form of debt security in which the authorized issuer (borrower) owes the bond holder (lender) a debt and is obligated to repay the principal and interest (coupon) at a later date(s) (maturity). An explanation of the type of bond and other bond stipulations must be attached to the bond issuance.
Borrower.
The person that borrows, or seeks to borrow, money from the lender, including any party liable for the loan except for guarantors.
Certificate of Incumbency and Signature.
Form RD 4279-7, “Certificate of Incumbency and Signature,” is used to validate authenticity of Agency representatives' signatures on Forms RD 4279-4, 4279-5, and 4279-6.
Collateral.
The asset(s) pledged by the borrower to secure the loan.
Commercially available.
A system that has a proven operating history for at least 1 year specific to the proposed application. Such a system is based on established design and installation procedures and practices. Professional service providers, trades, large construction equipment providers, and labor are familiar with installation procedures and practices. Proprietary and the balance of system equipment and spare parts are readily available, and service is readily available to properly maintain and operate the system. An established warranty exists for major parts and labor. If the system is currently commercially available only outside of the United States, authoritative evidence of the foreign operating history, performance, and reliability is required in order to address the proven operating history.
Conditional Commitment.
Form RD 4279-3, “Conditional Commitment,” is the Agency's notice to the lender that the loan guarantee it has requested is approved subject to the completion of all conditions and requirements set forth by the Agency and outlined in the attachment to the Conditional Commitment.
Conflict of interest.
A situation in which a person has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that prevents the person from acting impartially.
Cooperative organization.
An entity that is legally chartered as a cooperative or an entity that is not legally chartered as a cooperative but is owned and operated for the benefit of its members, with returns of residual earnings paid to such members on the basis of patronage.
Debt Collection Improvement Act.
The Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, 31 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
requires that any monies that are payable or may become payable from the United States
under contracts and other written agreements to any person not an agency or subdivision of a State or local government may be subject to certain collection options, such as administrative offset, for a delinquent debt the person owes to the United States.
Default.
The condition that exists when a borrower is not in compliance with the promissory note, the loan agreement, or other documents relating to the loan. Default could be a monetary or non-monetary default.
Deficiency judgment.
A monetary judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction after foreclosure and liquidation of all collateral securing the loan.
Delinquency.
A loan for which a scheduled loan payment is more than 30 days past due and cannot be cured within 30 days.
Energy projects.
Commercially available projects that generate energy or power or projects that produce biofuel. Projects that have energy outputs that are a by-product of operations or that the Agency otherwise determines is not an energy project are not subject to the increased equity requirement for energy projects required by § 4279.131(d)(1).
Existing business.
A business that has been in operation for at least 1 full year. Mergers or changes in the business name or legal type of entity of a business that has been in operation for at least 1 full year are considered to be existing businesses as long as there is not a significant change in operations. Newly-formed entities that are buying existing businesses will be considered an existing business as long as the business being bought remains in operation and there is no significant change in operations.
Existing lender debt.
A debt owed by a borrower to the same lender that is applying for or has received the Agency guarantee.
Fair market value.
The price that could reasonably be expected for an asset in an arm's-length transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller under ordinary economic and business conditions.
Future recovery.
Funds collected by the lender after a final loss claim is processed.
High impact business development investment.
A business that scores at least 25 points under § 4279.166(b)(4).
High-priority project.
A project that scores more than 50 percent of the priority points available under § 4279.166(b)(1) through (5).
Holder.
A person, other than the lender, who owns all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan with no servicing responsibilities. When the single note option is used and the lender assigns a part of the guaranteed note to an assignee, the assignee becomes a holder only when the Agency receives notice and the transaction is completed through the use of the Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
Immediate family.
Individuals who live in the same household or who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, such as a spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, sibling, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, nephew, or cousin.
In-house expenses.
Expenses associated with activities that are routinely the responsibility of a lender's internal staff or its agents. In-house expenses include, but are not limited to, employees' salaries, staff lawyers, travel, and overhead.
Interest.
A fee paid by a borrower to the lender as a form of compensation for the use of money. When money is borrowed, interest is paid as a fee over a certain period of time (typically months or years) to the lender as a percentage of the principal amount owed. The term interest does not include default or penalty interest or late payment fees or charges.
Interim financing.
A temporary or short-term loan made with the clear intent when the loan is made that it will be repaid through another loan that provides permanent financing. Interim financing is frequently used to pay construction and other costs associated with a planned project, with permanent financing to be obtained after project completion.
Lender.
The eligible lender approved by the Agency to make, service, and collect the Agency guaranteed loan that is subject to this subpart. Agency approval of the lender will be evidenced by an outstanding Form RD 4279-4,
“Lender's Agreement,” between the Agency and the lender.
Lender's Agreement.
Form RD 4279-4, “Lender's Agreement,” or predecessor form, between the Agency and the lender setting forth the lender's loan responsibilities.
Liquidation expenses.
Costs directly associated with the liquidation of collateral, including preparing collateral for sale (
e.g.,
repairs and transport) and conducting the sale (
e.g.,
advertising, public notices, auctioneer expenses, and foreclosure fees). Liquidation expenses do not include in-house expenses. Legal/attorney fees are considered liquidation expenses provided that the fees are reasonable, as determined by the Agency, and cover legal issues pertaining to the liquidation that could not be properly handled by the lender and its in-house counsel.
Loan agreement.
The agreement between the borrower and lender containing the terms and conditions of the loan and the responsibilities of the borrower and lender.
Loan classification.
The process by which loans are examined and categorized by degree of potential loss in the event of default.
Loan Note Guarantee.
Form RD 4279-5, “Loan Note Guarantee,” issued and executed by the Agency, containing the terms and conditions of the guarantee.
Loan packager.
A person, other than the applicant borrower or lender, that prepares a loan application package.
Loan service provider.
A person, other than the lender of record, that provides loan servicing activities to the lender.
Loan-to-discounted value.
The ratio of the dollar amount of a loan to the discounted dollar value of the collateral pledged as security for the loan.
Loan-to-value.
The ratio of the dollar amount of a loan to the dollar value of the collateral pledged as security for the loan.
Local government.
A county, municipality, town, township, village, or other unit of general government, including tribal governments, below the State level.
Material adverse change.
Any change in circumstance associated with a guaranteed loan, including the borrower's financial condition or collateral, that, individually or in the aggregate, has jeopardized, or could be reasonably expected to jeopardize, loan performance.
Natural resource value-added product.
Any naturally occurring resource, including agricultural resources, that is processed to add value or to generate renewable energy from a natural resource.
Negligent loan origination.
The failure of a lender to perform those services that a reasonably prudent lender would perform in originating its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The term includes the concepts of failure to act, not acting in a timely manner, or acting in a manner contrary to the manner in which a reasonably prudent lender would act.
Negligent loan servicing.
The failure of a lender to perform those services that a reasonably prudent lender would perform in servicing (including liquidation of) its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The term includes the concepts of failure to act, not acting in a timely manner, or acting in a manner contrary to the manner in which a reasonably prudent lender would act.
New business.
A startup or otherwise new business that has been in operation for less than 1 full year. New businesses include newly-formed entities leasing space or building ground-up facilities, even if the owners of the new or startup business own affiliated businesses doing the same kind of business.
Parity.
A lien position whereby two or more lenders share a security interest of equal priority in collateral. In the event of default, each lender will be affected on an equal basis.
Participation.
Sale of an interest in a loan by the lead lender to one or more participating lenders wherein the lead lender retains the note, collateral securing the note, and all responsibility for managing and servicing the loan. Participants are dependent upon the lead lender for protection of their interests in the loan. The relationship is typically formalized by a participation agreement. The participants and the borrower have no rights or obligations to one another.
Person.
An individual or entity.
Poverty.
A community or area (including a county, city, or equivalent
such as parish, borough, municipio, or census designated place) where at least 20 percent of the population have income below the poverty line.
Pro rata.
On a proportional basis.
Promissory note.
Evidence of debt with stipulated repayment terms. “Note” or “promissory note” shall also be construed to include “Bond” or other evidence of debt, where appropriate.
Protective advances.
Advances made by the lender for the purpose of preserving and protecting the collateral where the debtor has failed to, and will not or cannot, meet its obligations to protect or preserve collateral. Protective advances include, but are not limited to, advances affecting the collateral made for property taxes, rent, hazard and flood insurance premiums, and annual assessments. Legal/attorney fees are not a protective advance.
Public body.
A municipality, county, or other political subdivision of a State; a special purpose district; an Indian tribe on a Federal or State reservation or other federally-recognized Indian tribe; or an organization controlled by any of the above.
Renewable biomass.
(1) Materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from National Forest System land or public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)) that:
(i) Are by-products of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels; to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; or to restore ecosystem health;
(ii) Would not otherwise be used for higher-value products; and
(iii) Are harvested in accordance with applicable law and land management plans and the requirements for old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction of paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (e) of section 102 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6512) and large-tree retention of subsection (f) of that section; or
(2) Any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian Tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including:
(i) Renewable plant material, including feed grains; other agricultural commodities; other plants and trees; and algae; and
(ii) Waste material, including crop residue; other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues); animal waste and by-products (including fats, oils, greases, and manure); and food and yard waste.
Report of loss.
Form RD 449-30, “Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss,” used by lenders when reporting a financial loss under an Agency guarantee.
Rural Development.
The mission area of USDA that is comprised of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, the Rural Housing Service, and the Rural Utilities Service and is under the policy direction and operational oversight of the Under Secretary for Rural Development.
Spreadsheet.
A table containing data from a series of financial statements of a business over a period of time. A financial statement analysis normally contains spreadsheets for balance sheet and income statement items and includes a cash flow analysis and commonly used ratios. The spreadsheets enable a reviewer to easily scan the data, spot trends, and make comparisons.
State.
Any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Subordination.
An agreement among the lender, borrower, and Agency whereby lien priorities on certain assets pledged to secure payment of the guaranteed loan will be reduced to a position junior to, or on parity with, the lien position of another loan.
Tangible balance sheet equity.
Tangible equity divided by tangible assets. Formula: ((Assets—intangible assets)—liabilities)/(Assets—intangible assets) or (Equity—intangible assets)/(Assets—intangible assets).
Transfer and assumption.
The conveyance by a borrower to an assuming borrower of the assets, collateral, and liabilities of the loan in return for the assuming borrower's binding promise to pay the outstanding debt.
USDA Lender Interactive Network Connection (LINC).
The portal Web site currently at
https://usdalinc.sc.egov.usda.gov/
used by lenders to update loan data in the Agency's Guaranteed Loan System. Current LINC capabilities include loan closing and status reporting.
Veteran.
For the purposes of assigning priority points, a veteran is a person who is a veteran of any war, as defined in title 38 U.S.C. 101(12).
Working capital.
Current assets available to support a business' operations and growth. Working capital is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
(b)
Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations apply to this subpart:
B
I—Business and Industry
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DCIA—Debt Collection Improvement Act
FDIC—Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
FSA—Farm Service Agency
GAAP—Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the United States
LINC—USDA Lender Interactive Network Connection
NAD—National Appeals Division
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
REAP—Rural Energy for America Program
U.S.—United States of America
USDA—U.S. Department of Agriculture
(c)
Accounting terms.
Accounting terms not otherwise defined in this part shall have the definition ascribed to them under GAAP.
§§ 4279.3-4279.14
[Reserved]
§ 4279.15
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such an exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal government. Exercise of this authority cannot be in conflict with applicable law.
§ 4279.16
Appeals.
Applicants, borrowers, lenders, and holders have appeal or review rights for Agency decisions made under this subpart, subpart B of this part, or subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter. Programmatic decisions based on clear and objective statutory or regulatory requirements are not appealable; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD). The borrower, lender, and holder can appeal any Agency decision that directly and adversely impacts them. For an adverse decision that impacts the borrower, the lender and borrower must jointly execute a written request for appeal for an alleged adverse decision made by the Agency. An adverse decision that only impacts the lender may be appealed by the lender only. An adverse decision that only impacts the holder may be appealed by the holder only. A decision by a lender adverse to the interest of the borrower is not a decision by the Agency, whether or not concurred in by the Agency. Appeals will be conducted by USDA NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§§ 4279.17-4279.28
[Reserved]
§ 4279.29
Eligible lenders.
An eligible lender must be domiciled in a State as defined in § 4279.2 or the District of Columbia and must not be debarred or suspended by the Federal government. If the lender is under a cease and desist order, or similar constraint, from a Federal or State agency, the lender must inform the Agency. The Agency will evaluate the lender's eligibility on a case-by-case basis, given the risk of loss posed by the cease and desist order. The Agency will only approve loan guarantees for lenders with adequate capital to fund and cover potential liquidation expenses for guaranteed loans it proposes to make and adequate experience and expertise to make, secure, service, and collect B
I loans. The lender must provide documentation as to its capital and experience in commercial lending. The lender and the Agency will execute a Lender's Agreement for each lender approved to participate in the program. If a valid Lender's Agreement already exists, it is not necessary to execute a new Lender's Agreement with each
loan guarantee; however, a new Lender's Agreement must be executed with any existing lenders making new loans on or after August 2, 2016. The Agency may revoke a lender's eligible status at any time for cause, including those examples cited in § 4279.29(c).
(a)
Regulated lenders.
A regulated lender is any Federal or State chartered bank, or other financial institution, Farm Credit Bank, other Farm Credit System institution with direct lending authority, Bank for Cooperatives, Savings and Loan Association, Savings Bank, or mortgage company that is part of a bank-holding company. These entities must be subject to credit examination and supervision by either an agency of the United States or a State. Eligible lenders may also include the National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance Corporation and credit unions provided that they are subject to credit examination and supervision by either the National Credit Union Administration or a State agency.
(b)
Non-regulated lenders.
The Agency may consider an applicant lender that does not meet the criteria of paragraph (a) of this section for eligibility to become a guaranteed lender for a 3-year period provided that the Agency determines that the applicant lender has the legal authority to operate a lending program and sufficient lending expertise and financial strength to operate a successful lending program. When the applicant lender is a multi-tiered entity, it will be considered in its entirety. Insurance companies (formerly included as traditional lenders) and non-regulated lenders (formerly known as other lenders) previously approved as guaranteed lenders prior to August 2, 2016 must reapply to become an approved non-regulated lender in order to originate new guaranteed loans. However, both insurance companies and non-regulated lenders that have executed a Lender's Agreement must continue to service the guaranteed loans in their portfolios in accordance with that agreement.
(1) In order to become an eligible lender, non-regulated lenders must:
(i) Have been making commercial loans for at least 5 years;
(ii) Have a record of successfully making at least 10 commercial loans annually totaling at least $1 million for each of the last 5 years, with lender's delinquent commercial loan portfolio over this period not exceeding (a) 6 percent of all commercial loans made and (b) 3 percent in commercial loan losses (based on the original principal loan amount);
(iii) Have and maintain tangible balance sheet equity of at least 10 percent of tangible assets and sufficient funds available to disburse the guaranteed loans it proposes to approve within the first 6 months of being approved as a guaranteed lender;
(iv) Have and maintain a line of credit issued by a regulated lender that is acceptable to the Agency;
(v) Agree to establish and maintain an Agency approved loss reserve equal to 3 percent of each B
I loan closed and agree to increase the loss reserve for anticipated losses as required by the Agency;
(vi) Have adequate policies and procedures to ensure that internal credit controls provide adequate loanmaking and servicing guidance; and
(vii) Have undergone a credit examination at its own expense from a recognized independent reviewer acceptable to the Agency. The applicant lender should consult with the Agency prior to receiving an examination to ensure the examiner will be acceptable.
(2) A non-regulated lender that wishes consideration to become a guaranteed lender must submit a request in writing to the Agency. The Agency will notify the prospective lender whether the lender's request for eligibility is approved or rejected. If rejected, the Agency will notify the prospective lender, in writing, of the reasons for the rejection. The lender must include in its written request the following:
(i) An audited financial statement not more than 1 year old that evidences the lender has the required tangible balance sheet equity and the resources to successfully meet its responsibilities;
(ii) A copy of any license, charter, or other evidence of authority to engage in the proposed loanmaking and servicing activities. If licensing by the State is not required, an attorney's
opinion stating that licensing is not required and that the entity has the legal authority to engage in the proposed loanmaking and servicing activities must be submitted;
(iii) Information on lending experience, including length of time in the lending business; range and volume of lending and servicing activity, including a list of the industries for which it has provided financing; status of its loan portfolio, including a list of loans in the portfolio with each loan's current loan classification code and delinquency and loss rates as outlined in § 4279.29(b)(1)(ii); experience of management and loan officers; sources of funds for the proposed loans; office location and proposed lending area; an estimate of the number and size of guaranteed loan applications the lender will develop; and proposed rates and fees, including loan origination, loan preparation, and servicing fees;
(iv) A copy of the examination required under paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section; and
(v) Documentation as to how the lender will fulfill the requirements of § 4279.30.
(3) Non-regulated lenders must submit audited financial statements to the Agency annually for monitoring purposes.
(4) Renewal of eligible lender status to continue making B
I loans is not automatic. Eligible lender status will lapse 3 years from the date of Agency approval and execution of the Lender's Agreement unless the lender obtains a renewal. A lender whose eligible status has lapsed must continue to service any outstanding loans guaranteed under this part but may not submit requests for new loan guarantees. Lenders whose eligibility has lapsed may file a subsequent request under this subsection. Lenders requesting renewal must complete and execute a new Lender's Agreement, along with a written update of the eligibility criteria required by this section for approval. Lenders requesting renewal must resubmit the information required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section and must address how the lender is complying with each of the required criteria described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The written update of the eligibility criteria must also include any change in the persons designated to process and service Agency guaranteed loans or change in the operating methods used in the processing and servicing of loans since the original or last renewal date of eligible lender status. The lender must provide this information to the Agency at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the existing agreement to be assured of a timely renewal.
(c)
Revocation of eligible lender status.
The Agency may revoke a lender's status at any time for cause. Cause for revoking eligible status includes:
(1) Failure to maintain status as an eligible lender as set forth in § 4279.29 of this subpart;
(2) Knowingly submitting false information when requesting a guarantee or basing a guarantee request on information known to be false or which the lender should have known to be false;
(3) Making a guaranteed loan with deficiencies that may cause losses not to be covered by the Loan Note Guarantee, such as negligent loan origination;
(4) Conviction of the lender or its officers for criminal acts in connection with any loan transaction whether or not the loan was guaranteed by the Agency;
(5) Violation of usury laws in connection with any loan transaction whether or not the loan was guaranteed by the Agency;
(6) Failure to obtain and maintain the required security for any loan guaranteed by the Agency;
(7) Using loan funds guaranteed by the Agency for purposes other than those specifically approved by the Agency in the Conditional Commitment or amendment thereof in accordance with § 4279.173(b);
(8) Violation of any term of the Lender's Agreement;
(9) Failure to correct any Agency-cited deficiency in loan documents in a timely manner;
(10) Failure to submit reports required by the Agency in a timely manner;
(11) Failure to process Agency guaranteed loans as would a reasonably prudent lender;
(12) Failure to provide for adequate construction planning and monitoring in connection with any loan to ensure that the project will be completed with the available funds and, once completed, will be suitable for the borrower's needs;
(13) Repetitive recommendations for servicing actions or guaranteed loans with marginal or substandard credit quality or that do not comply with Agency requirements;
(14) Negligent loan origination;
(15) Negligent loan servicing;
(16) Failure to conduct any approved liquidation of a loan guaranteed by the Agency or its predecessors in a timely and effective manner and in accordance with the approved liquidation plan; or
(17) Violation of applicable nondiscrimination law, including, but not limited to, statutes, regulations, USDA Departmental Regulations, the USDA Non-Discrimination Statement, and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. USDA's Non-Discrimination Statement is located at the following Web site:
http://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/usda/usdahome?navtype=FT
navid=NON_DISCRIMINATION.
(d)
Debarment of lender.
The Agency may debar a lender in addition to the revocation of the lender's status.
[81 FR 35997, June 3, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 54477, Aug. 16, 2016]
§ 4279.30
Lenders' functions and responsibilities.
(a)
General.
(1) Lenders have the primary responsibility for the successful delivery of the guaranteed loan program. Any action or inaction on the part of the Agency does not relieve the lender of its responsibilities to originate and service the loan guaranteed under this subpart, subpart B of this part, and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter. Lenders may contract for services but are ultimately responsible for underwriting, loan origination, loan servicing, and compliance with all Agency regulations. No person may act as, or work for, both a loan packager and loan service provider on the same guaranteed loan. All lenders obtaining or requesting a loan guarantee are responsible for:
(i) Processing applications for guaranteed loans;
(ii) Developing and maintaining adequately documented loan files, which must be maintained for at least 3 years after any final loss has been paid;
(iii) Recommending only loan proposals that are eligible and financially feasible;
(iv) Properly closing the loan and obtaining valid evidence of debt and collateral in accordance with sound lending practices prior to disbursing loan proceeds;
(v) Keeping an inventory accounting of all collateral items and reconciling the inventory of all collateral sold during loan servicing, including liquidation;
(vi) Monitoring construction and operation;
(vii) Distributing loan funds;
(viii) Servicing guaranteed loans in a prudent manner, including liquidation if necessary;
(ix) Reporting all conflicts of interest, or appearances thereof, to the Agency;
(x) Following Agency regulations and agreements; and
(xi) Obtaining Agency approvals or concurrence as required.
(2) This subpart, subpart B of this part, and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter contain the regulations for this program, including the lenders' responsibilities. If a lender fails to comply with these requirements, the Agency may reduce any loss payment in accordance with the applicable regulations.
(b)
Credit evaluation.
The lender must analyze all credit factors associated with each proposed loan and apply its professional judgment to determine that the credit factors, considered in combination, ensure loan repayment. The lender must have an adequate underwriting process to ensure that loans are reviewed by persons other than the originating officer, and there must be good credit documentation procedures. The Agency will only issue guarantees for loans that are sound and have reasonable assurance of repayment. The Agency will not issue guarantees for marginal or substandard loans.
(c)
Environmental responsibilities.
Lenders are responsible for becoming familiar with Federal environmental
requirements; considering, in consultation with the prospective borrower, the potential environmental impacts of their proposals at the earliest planning stages; and developing proposals that minimize the potential to adversely impact the environment.
(1) Lenders must assist the borrower in providing details of the project's impact on the environment and historic properties in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures,” (or successor regulation), when applicable; assist in the collection of additional data when the Agency needs such data to complete its environmental review of the proposal; and assist in the resolution of environmental problems.
(2) Lenders must ensure the borrower has:
(i) Provided the necessary environmental information to enable the Agency to undertake its environmental review process in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures,” or successor regulation, including the provision of all required Federal, State, and local permits;
(ii) Complied with any mitigation measures required by the Agency; and
(iii) Not taken any actions or incurred any obligations with respect to the proposed project that will either limit the range of alternatives to be considered during the Agency's environmental review process or that will have an adverse effect on the environment.
(3) Lenders must alert the Agency to any environmental issues related to a proposed project or items that may require extensive environmental review.
§§ 4279.31-4279.43
[Reserved]
§ 4279.44
Access to records.
The lender must permit representatives of the Agency (or other agencies of the United States) to inspect and make copies of any records of the lender pertaining to Agency guaranteed loans during regular office hours of the lender or at any other time upon agreement between the lender and the Agency. In addition, the lender must cooperate fully with Agency oversight and monitoring of all lenders involved in any manner with any guarantee to ensure compliance with this subpart, subpart B of this part, and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter. Such oversight and monitoring will include, but is not limited to, reviewing lender records and meeting with lenders in accordance with subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter.
§§ 4279.45-4279.58
[Reserved]
§ 4279.59
Environmental requirements.
The Agency is responsible for ensuring that the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (under 40 CFR part 1500) and related compliance actions, such as Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (under 36 CFR part 800) and Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act, are met and will complete the appropriate level of environmental review in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures,” or successor regulation. Because development of the loan application occurs simultaneously with development of the environmental review, applicants, including lenders and borrowers, must not take any actions or incur any obligations that would either limit the range of alternatives to be considered in the environmental review or that would have an adverse effect on the environment. Satisfactory completion of the environmental review process must occur prior to issuance of the Conditional Commitment to the lender.
§ 4279.60
Civil rights impact analysis.
Issuance of a Conditional Commitment is conditioned on the Agency being able to satisfactorily complete a civil rights impact analysis.
§ 4279.61
Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
In accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
), with respect to any aspect of a credit transaction, neither the lender nor the Agency will discriminate against any applicant on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age (providing the applicant
has the capacity to contract), or because all or part of the applicant's income derives from a public assistance program, or because the applicant has, in good faith, exercised any right under the Consumer Protection Act. The lender must comply with the requirements of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act as contained in the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation implementing that Act (see 12 CFR part 202) prior to loan closing.
§§ 4279.62-4279.70
[Reserved]
§ 4279.71
Public bodies and nonprofit corporations.
Audits will be required of any public body, nonprofit corporation or Indian Tribe that receives a guaranteed loan that meets the thresholds established by 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. Any audit provided by a public body, nonprofit corporation, or Indian Tribe required by this paragraph will be considered adequate to meet the audit requirements of the B
I program for that year.
§ 4279.72
Conditions of guarantee.
A loan guarantee under this part will be evidenced by a Loan Note Guarantee issued by the Agency. The provisions of this part and part 4287 of this chapter will apply to all outstanding guarantees. In the event of a conflict between the guarantee documents and these regulations as they exist at the time the documents are executed, these regulations will control.
(a)
Full faith and credit.
A guarantee under this part constitutes an obligation supported by the full faith and credit of the United States and is incontestable except for fraud or misrepresentation of which a lender or holder has actual knowledge at the time it becomes such lender or holder or which a lender or holder participates in or condones. The guarantee will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent that any loss is occasioned by a provision for interest on interest or default or penalty interest.In addition, the guarantee will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent any loss is occasioned by the violation of usury laws, use of loan proceeds for unauthorized purposes, negligent loan origination, negligent loan servicing, or failure to obtain or maintain the required security regardless of the time at which the Agency acquires knowledge thereof. Any losses occasioned will be unenforceable by the lender to the extent that loan funds were used for purposes other than those specifically approved by the Agency in its Conditional Commitment or amendment thereof in accordance with § 4279.173(b). The Agency may for cause terminate or reduce the Loan Note Guarantee at any time. The Agency will guarantee payment as follows:
(1) To any holder, 100 percent of any loss sustained by the holder on the guaranteed portion of the loan it owns and on interest due on such portion less any outstanding servicing fee. For those loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the lender or the Agency will issue an interest termination letter to the holder(s) establishing the termination date for interest accrual. The guarantee will not cover interest to any holder accruing after the greater of: 90 days from the date of the most recent delinquency effective date as reported by the lender or 30 days from the date of the interest termination letter.
(2) To the lender, subject to the provisions of this part and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter, the lesser of:
(i) Any loss sustained by the lender on the guaranteed portion, including principal and interest (for loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the guarantee will not cover note interest to the lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date) evidenced by the notes or assumption agreements and secured advances for protection and preservation of collateral made with the Agency's authorization; or
(ii) The guaranteed principal advanced to or assumed by the borrower and any interest due thereon. For loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the guarantee will not cover note interest to the lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date.
(b)
Rights and liabilities.
When a guaranteed portion of a loan is sold to a holder, the holder will succeed to all rights of the lender under the Loan
Note Guarantee to the extent of the portion purchased. The full, legal interest in the note must remain with the lender, and the lender will remain bound to all obligations under the Loan Note Guarantee, Lender's Agreement, and Agency program regulations. A guarantee and right to require purchase will be directly enforceable by a holder notwithstanding any fraud or misrepresentation by the lender or any unenforceability of the guarantee by the lender, except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the holder had actual knowledge at the time it became the holder or in which the holder participates in or condones. The lender will reimburse the Agency for any payments the Agency makes to a holder on the lender's guaranteed loan that, under the Loan Note Guarantee, would not have been paid to the lender had the lender retained the entire interest in the guaranteed loan and not conveyed an interest to a holder.
(c)
Payments.
A lender will receive all payments of principal and interest on account of the entire loan and must promptly remit to the holder its pro rata share thereof, determined according to its respective interest in the loan, less only the lender's servicing fee.
[81 FR 35997, June 3, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 11634, Mar. 16, 2018]
§§ 4279.73-4279.74
[Reserved]
§ 4279.75
Sale or assignment of guaranteed loan.
The lender may sell all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan on the secondary market or retain the entire loan. The lender must fully disburse and properly close a loan prior to sale of the note(s) on the secondary market. The lender cannot sell or participate any amount of the guaranteed or unguaranteed portion of the loan to the borrower or its parent, subsidiary, or affiliate or to officers, directors, stockholders, other owners, or members of their immediate families. The lender cannot share any premium received from the sale of a guaranteed loan in the secondary market with a loan packager or other loan service provider. If the lender desires to market all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan at or subsequent to loan closing, such loan must not be in default. Lenders may use either the single note or multi-note system as outlined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The lender may also obtain participation in the loan under its normal operating procedures; however, the lender must retain title to the notes if any of them are unguaranteed and retain the lender's interest in the collateral.
(a)
Single note system.
The entire loan is evidenced by one note, and one Loan Note Guarantee is issued. The lender must retain title to the note, retain the lender's interest in the collateral, and retain the servicing responsibilities for the guaranteed loan. When the loan is evidenced by one note, the lender may not at a later date cause any additional notes to be issued. The lender may assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan to one or more holders by using an Assignment Guarantee Agreement. The lender must complete and execute the Assignment Guarantee Agreement and return it to the Agency for execution prior to holder execution. In order to validate authenticity, holders are encouraged to consult with the Agency. Additionally, a Certificate of Incumbency and Signature may be requested. The holder, with written notice to the lender and the Agency, may reassign the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan, in full, sold under the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. Holders may only reassign the entire guaranteed portion they have received and cannot subdivide or further split the guaranteed portion of a loan or retain an interest strip. Upon notification and completion of the Assignment Guarantee Agreement, the assignee shall succeed to all rights and obligations of the holder thereunder. Subsequent assignments require notice to the lender and Agency using any format, including that used by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (formerly known as the Bond Market Association), together with the transfer of the original Assignment Guarantee Agreement. The
Agency will neither execute a new Assignment Guarantee Agreement to effect a subsequent reassignment nor reissue a duplicate Assignment Guarantee Agreement unless the original was lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced in accordance with § 4279.84. The Assignment Guarantee Agreement clearly states the percentage and corresponding amount of the guaranteed portion it represents and the lender's servicing fee. A servicing fee may be charged by the lender to a holder and is calculated as a percentage per annum of the unpaid balance of the guaranteed portion of the loan assigned by the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. The Agency is not and will not be a party to any contract between the lender and another party where the lender sells its servicing fee. The Agency will not acknowledge, approve, nor have any liability to any of the parties of this contract.
(b)
Multi-note system.
Under this option, the lender may provide one note for the unguaranteed portion of the loan and no more than 10 notes for the guaranteed portion. All promissory notes must reflect the same payment terms. The lender must retain its interest in the collateral and servicing responsibilities for the guaranteed loan. When the lender selects this option, the holder will receive one of the borrower's executed notes and a Loan Note Guarantee. The Agency will issue a Loan Note Guarantee for each note, including the unguaranteed note, to be attached to each note. An Assignment Guarantee Agreement will not be used when the multi-note option is utilized.
§ 4279.76
[Reserved]
§ 4279.77
Minimum retention.
The lender is required to hold in its own portfolio a minimum of 5 percent of the original total loan amount. The amount required to be maintained must be of the unguaranteed portion of the loan and cannot be participated to another. The lender may enter into no agreement that reduces its exposure below the minimum 5 percent it is required to retain in its portfolio. The lender may sell the remaining amount of the unguaranteed portion of the loan only through participation.
§ 4279.78
Repurchase from holder.
(a)
Repurchase by lender.
A lender has the option to repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan from a holder within 30 days of written demand by the holder when the borrower is in default not less than 60 days on principal or interest due on the loan; or when the lender has failed to remit to the holder its pro rata share of any payment made by the borrower within 30 days of the lender's receipt thereof. The repurchase by the lender must be for an amount equal to the unpaid guaranteed portion of principal and accrued interest less the lender's servicing fee. The holder must concurrently send a copy of the demand letter to the Agency. The lender must accept an assignment without recourse from the holder upon repurchase. For those loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the lender or the Agency will issue an interest termination letter to the holder(s) establishing the termination date for interest accrual if the default is not cured. The guarantee will not cover interest to any holder accruing after the greater of: 90 days from the date of the most recent delinquency effective date as reported by the lender or 30 days from the date of the interest termination letter. If, in the opinion of the lender, repurchase of the guaranteed portion of the loan is necessary to adequately service the loan, the holder must sell the guaranteed portion of the loan to the lender for an amount equal to the unpaid principal and interest on such portion less the lender's servicing fee. The lender must not repurchase from the holder for arbitrage or other purposes to further its own financial gain. Any repurchase must only be made after the lender obtains the Agency's written approval. If the lender does not repurchase the guaranteed portion from the holder, the Agency may, at its option, purchase such guaranteed portion for servicing purposes. The lender is encouraged to repurchase the loan to facilitate the accounting of funds, resolve any loan problems, and prevent default, where and when reasonable. The benefit to the lender is that it may resell the guaranteed portion of the loan in order to continue
collection of its servicing fee if the default is cured. When the lender repurchases the guaranteed portion from the secondary market for servicing purposes, the lender must discontinue interest accrual if Federal or State regulators place the loan in non-accrual status if the default is not cured within 90 days. The lender will notify the holder and the Agency of its decision.
(b)
Agency repurchase.
(1) The lender's servicing fee will stop on the date that interest was last paid by the borrower when the Agency purchases the guaranteed portion of the loan from a holder. The lender cannot charge such servicing fee to the Agency and must apply all loan payments and collateral proceeds received to the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan on a pro rata basis.
(2) If the Agency repurchases 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan and becomes the holder, interest accrual on the loan will cease, and the Agency will not continue collection of the annual renewal fee from the lender.
(3) If the lender does not repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will purchase from the holder the unpaid principal balance of the guaranteed portion together with accrued interest to date of repurchase, less the lender's servicing fee, within 30 days after written demand to the Agency from the holder. For those loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the lender or the Agency will issue an interest termination letter to the holder(s) establishing the termination date for interest accrual. The guarantee will not cover interest to any holder accruing after the greater of: 90 days from the date of the most recent delinquency effective date as reported by the lender or 30 days from the date of the interest termination letter. Once the holder makes demand upon the Agency, the request cannot be rescinded.
(4) When the guaranteed loan has been delinquent more than 60 days and no holder comes forward, the Agency may issue a letter to the holder(s) establishing the cutoff date for interest accrual. Accrued interest to be paid the holder will be calculated from the date interest was last paid on the loan with a cutoff date being no more than 90 days from the date of the most recent delinquency effective date as reported by the lender.
(5) When the lender has accelerated the account and holds all or a portion of the guaranteed loan, an estimated loss claim (loan in the liquidation process) must be filed by the lender with the Agency within 60 days. Accrued interest paid to the lender will be calculated from the date interest was last paid on the loan with a cutoff date being no more than 90 days from the most recent delinquency effective date as reported by the lender.
(6) The holder's demand to the Agency must include a copy of the written demand made upon the lender. The holder must also include evidence of its right to require payment from the Agency. Such evidence must consist of either the original of the Loan Note Guarantee properly endorsed to the Agency or the original of the Assignment Guarantee Agreement properly assigned to the Agency without recourse, including all rights, title, and interest in the loan. When the single-note system is utilized and the initial holder has sold its interest, the current holder must present the original Assignment Guarantee Agreement and an original of each Agency-approved reassignment document in the chain of ownership, with the latest reassignment being assigned to the Agency without recourse, including all rights, title, and interest in the guarantee. The holder must include in its demand the amount due, including unpaid principal, unpaid interest to date of demand, and interest subsequently accruing from date of demand to proposed payment date. The Agency will be subrogated to all rights of the holder.
(7) Upon request by the Agency, the lender must promptly furnish a current statement certified by an appropriate authorized officer of the lender of the unpaid principal and interest then owed by the borrower on the loan and the amount then owed to any holder, along with the information necessary for the Agency to determine the appropriate amount due the holder. Any discrepancy between the amount claimed by the holder and the information submitted by the lender must be resolved
between the lender and the holder before payment will be approved. Such conflict will suspend the running of the 30-day payment requirement.
(8) Purchase by the Agency neither changes, alters, nor modifies any of the lender's obligations to the Agency arising from the loan or guarantee nor does it waive any of the Agency's rights against the lender. The Agency will have the right to set-off against the lender all rights inuring to the Agency as the holder of the instrument against the Agency's obligation to the lender under the program.
§§ 4279.79-4279.83
[Reserved]
§ 4279.84
Replacement of document.
(a) The Agency may issue a replacement Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement that was lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced to the lender or holder upon receipt of an acceptable certificate of loss and an indemnity bond.
(b) When a Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement is lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced while in the custody of the lender or holder, the lender must coordinate the activities of the party who seeks the replacement documents and submit the required documents to the Agency for processing. The requirements for replacement are as follows:
(1) A certificate of loss, notarized and containing a jurat, which includes:
(i) Name and address of owner;
(ii) Name and address of the lender of record;
(iii) Capacity of person certifying;
(iv) Full identification of the Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement, including the name of the borrower, the Agency's case number, date of the Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement, face amount of the evidence of debt purchased, date of evidence of debt, present balance of the loan, percentage of guarantee, and, if an Assignment Guarantee Agreement, the original named holder and the percentage of the guaranteed portion of the loan assigned to that holder. Any existing parts of the document to be replaced must be attached to the certificate;
(v) A full statement of circumstances of the loss, theft, destruction, defacement, or mutilation of the Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement; and
(vi) For the holder, evidence demonstrating current ownership of the Loan Note Guarantee and promissory note or the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. If the present holder is not the same as the original holder, a copy of the endorsement of each successive holder in the chain of transfer from the initial holder to present holder must be included. If copies of the endorsement cannot be obtained, best available records of transfer must be submitted to the Agency (
e.g.,
order confirmation, canceled checks, etc.).
(2) An indemnity bond acceptable to the Agency must accompany the request for replacement except when the holder is the United States, a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal corporation, a State or territory, or the District of Columbia. The bond must be with surety except when the outstanding principal balance and accrued interest due the present holder is less than $1 million, verified by the lender in writing in a letter of certification of balance due. The surety must be a qualified surety company holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury and listed in Treasury Department Circular 570.
(3) All indemnity bonds must be issued and payable to the United States of America acting through the Agency. The bond must be in an amount not less than the unpaid principal and interest. The bond must hold the Agency harmless against any claim or demand that might arise or against any damage, loss, costs, or expenses that might be sustained or incurred by reasons of the loss or replacement of the instruments.
(4) The Agency will not attempt to obtain, or participate in the obtaining of, replacement notes from the borrower. The holder is responsible for bearing the costs of note replacement if the borrower agrees to issue a replacement instrument. Should such note be replaced, the terms of the note cannot be changed. If the evidence of debt has been lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced, such evidence of
debt must be replaced before the Agency will replace any instruments.
§§ 4279.85-4279.99
[Reserved]
§ 4279.100
OMB control number.
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, the information collection requirements contained in this subpart have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under OMB Control Number 0570-0069 for OMB approval.

# Subpart B—Business and Industry Loans

# Source:
81 FR 36005, June 3, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4279.101
Introduction.
(a)
Content.
As of October 1, 2020, this subpart is specifically applicable to and only contains loan processing regulations for Business and Industry loans under the authority of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (Pub. L. 116-136) to provide B
I guarantees for loans needed as a result of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic for working capital loan purposes to support business operations and facilities in rural areas (B
I CARES Act Program Loans). Some of the requirements of this subpart are waived or altered for B
I CARES Act Program Loans. The waivers and alterations are provided in § 4279.190 of this subpart. This subpart is supplemented by subpart A of this part, which contains general guaranteed loan regulations, and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter, which contains loan servicing regulations. Other than the B
I CARES Act Program Loans, this subpart is no longer used for loan processing requirements for Business and Industry (B
I) loans guaranteed by the Agency. Requirements for regular B
I loans (other than the B
I CARES Act Program Loans) may be found at 7 CFR part 5001.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of the B
I Guaranteed Loan Program is to improve, develop, or finance business, industry, and employment and improve the economic and environmental climate in rural communities. This purpose is achieved by bolstering the existing private credit structure through the guarantee of quality loans that will provide lasting community benefits. It is not intended that the guarantee authority will be used for marginal or substandard loans or for relief of lenders having such loans.
(c)
Documents.
Whether specifically stated or not, whenever Agency approval is required, it must be in writing. Copies of all forms and regulations referenced in this subpart may be obtained from any Agency office and from the USDA Rural Development Web site at
http://www.rd.usda.gov/publications.
Whenever a form is designated in this subpart, that designation includes predecessor and successor forms, if applicable, as specified by the Agency.
[81 FR 36005, June 3, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 31040, May 22, 2020; 85 FR 62196, Oct. 2, 2020]
§ 4279.102
Definitions and abbreviations.
The definitions and abbreviations in § 4279.2 are applicable to this subpart.
§ 4279.103
Exception authority.
Section 4279.15 applies to this subpart.
§ 4279.104
Appeals.
Section 4279.16 applies to this subpart.
§§ 4279.105-4279.107
[Reserved]
§ 4279.108
Eligible borrowers.
(a)
Type of entity.
A borrower may be a cooperative organization, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity organized and operated on a profit or nonprofit basis; an Indian tribe on a Federal or State reservation or other federally recognized tribal group; a public body; or an individual. A borrower must be engaged in or proposing to engage in a business. A business may include manufacturing, wholesaling, retailing, providing services, or other activities that will provide employment and improve the economic or environmental climate.
(b)
Citizenship.
Individual borrowers must be citizens of the United States or reside in the United States after
being legally admitted for permanent residence. For purposes of this subpart, citizens and residents of the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands are considered U.S. citizens. Individuals that reside in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence must provide a permanent green card as evidence of eligibility. Private entity borrowers must demonstrate, to the Agency's satisfaction, that loan funds will remain in the United States and the facility being financed will primarily create new or save existing jobs for rural U.S. residents.
(c)
Rural area.
The business financed with a guaranteed loan under this subpart must be located in a rural area, except for cooperative organizations financed in accordance with § 4279.113(j)(2) and local foods projects financed in accordance with § 4279.113(y)(2). Loans to borrowers with facilities located in both rural and non-rural areas will be limited to the amount necessary to finance the facility located in the eligible rural area, except for those cooperative organizations financed in accordance with § 4279.113(j)(2) and those local foods projects financed in accordance with § 4279.113(y)(2).
(1) Rural areas are any area of a State other than a city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants and any urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to such a city or town, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). In making this determination, the Agency will use the latest decennial census of the United States.
(2) For the purposes of this definition, cities and towns are incorporated population centers with definite boundaries, local self government, and legal powers set forth in a charter granted by the State.
(3) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered rural, except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. However, CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be eligible if they are determined to be “not urban in character.”
(4) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered rural, except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu.
(5) For the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency will determine what constitutes a rural area based on available population data.
(6) Notwithstanding any other provision of this definition, in determining which census blocks in an urbanized area are not in a rural area, the Agency will exclude any cluster of census blocks that would otherwise be considered not in a rural area only because the cluster is adjacent to not more than two census blocks that are otherwise considered not in a rural area under this definition.
(7) The Under Secretary, whose authority may not be redelegated, may determine that an area is “rural in character.” Any determination made by the Under Secretary under this provision will be to areas that are determined to be “rural in character” and are within: An urbanized area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urbanized area of such city or town; or an area within an urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants that is within
1/4
mile of a rural area.
(i) Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to both the appropriate Rural Development State Director and the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition must document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(7) of this section and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density; demographics; topography; and how the
local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor and Rural Development State Director and request comments within 10 business days, unless those comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Secretary will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of notice in a local newspaper and notice on the applicable Rural Development State Office Web site. The Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. The public notice will appear for at least 3 consecutive days if published in a daily newspaper or otherwise in two consecutive publications. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary for reconsideration, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration.
(ii) Rural Development State Directors may also initiate a request to the Under Secretary to determine if an area is “rural in character.” A written recommendation should be sent to the Administrator, on behalf of the Under Secretary, that documents how the area meets the statutory requirements of paragraph (c)(7) of this section and discusses why the State Director believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density; demographics; topography; and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receipt of such a request, the Administrator will review the request for compliance with the “rural in character” provisions and make a recommendation to the Under Secretary. Provided a favorable determination is made, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor and request comments within 10 business days, unless gubernatorial comments were submitted with the request. A public notice will be published by the State Office in accordance with paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section. There is no appeal process for requests made on the initiative of the State Director.
(d)
Other credit.
All applications for assistance will be accepted and processed without regard to the availability of credit from any other source.
(e)
Prohibition under Agency programs.
No loans guaranteed by the Agency will be conditioned on any requirement that the recipients of such assistance accept or receive electric or other services from any particular utility, supplier, or cooperative.
[81 FR 36005, June 3, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 38644, June 29, 2022]
§§ 4279.109-4279.112
[Reserved]
§ 4279.113
Eligible uses of funds.
Eligible uses of funds must be consistent with § 4279.101(b) and § 4279.108(a) and include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Purchase and development of land, buildings, and associated infrastructure for commercial or industrial properties, including expansion or modernization.
(b) Business acquisitions provided that jobs will be created or saved. A business acquisition is considered the acquisition of an entire business, not a partial stock acquisition in a business.
(c) Leasehold improvements when the lease contains no reverter clauses or restrictive clauses that would impair the use or value of the property as security for the loan. The term of the lease must be equal to or greater than the term of the loan.
(d) Constructing or equipping facilities for lease to private businesses engaged in commercial or industrial operations. Financing for mixed-use properties, involving both commercial business and residential space, is authorized provided that not less than 50 percent of the building's projected revenue will be generated from business use.
(e) Purchase of machinery and equipment.
(f) Startup costs, working capital, inventory, and supplies in the form of a permanent working capital term loan.
(g) Debt refinancing when it is determined that the project is viable and refinancing is necessary to improve cash flow and create new or save existing
jobs. Debt being refinanced must be debt of the borrower reflected on its balance sheet. The lender's analysis must document that, except for the refinancing of lines of credit, the debt being refinanced was for an eligible loan purpose under this subpart. Except as provided for in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, existing lender debt may be included provided that, at the time of application, the loan being refinanced has been closed and current for at least the past 12 months (current status cannot be achieved by the lender forgiving the borrower's debt or servicing actions that impact the borrower's repayment schedule), and the lender is providing better rates or terms. Unless the amount to be refinanced is owed directly to the Federal government or is federally guaranteed, existing lender debt may not exceed 50 percent of the overall loan.
(h) Takeout of interim financing. Guaranteeing a loan that provides for permanent, long-term financing after project completion to pay off a lender's interim loan will not be treated as debt refinancing provided that the lender submits a complete preapplication or application that proposes such interim financing prior to closing the interim loan. The borrower must take no action that would have an adverse impact on the environment or limit the range of alternatives to be considered by the Agency during the environmental review process. The Agency will not guarantee takeout of interim financing loans that prevent a meaningful environmental assessment prior to Agency loan approval. Even for projects with interim financing, the Agency cannot approve the loan and issue a Conditional Commitment until the environmental process is complete. The Agency assumes no responsibility or obligation for interim loans.
(i) Purchase of membership, stocks, bonds, or debentures necessary to obtain a loan from Farm Credit System institutions and other lenders provided the purchase is required for all of their borrowers and is the minimum amount required.
(j) Loans to cooperative organizations.
(1) Guaranteed loans to eligible cooperative organizations may be made in principal amounts up to $40 million if the project is located in a rural area, the cooperative facility being financed provides for the value-added processing of agricultural commodities, and the total amount of loans exceeding $25 million does not exceed 10 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year.
(2) Guaranteed loans to eligible cooperative organizations may also be made in non-rural areas provided:
(i) The primary purpose of the loan is for a facility to provide value-added processing for agricultural producers that are located within 80 miles of the facility;
(ii) The applicant satisfactorily demonstrates that the primary benefit of the loan will be to provide employment for rural residents;
(iii) The principal amount of the loan does not exceed $25 million; and
(iv) The total amount of loans guaranteed under this paragraph does not exceed 10 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year.
(3) An eligible cooperative organization may refinance an existing B
I loan provided the existing loan is current and performing; the existing loan is not and has not been in monetary default (more than 30 days late) or the collateral of which has not been converted; and there is adequate security or full collateral for the new guaranteed loan.
(k) The purchase of cooperative stock by individual farmers or ranchers in a farmer or rancher cooperative or the purchase of transferable cooperative stock in accordance with § 4279.115(a); or the purchase of stock in a business by employees forming an Employee Stock Ownership Plan or worker cooperative in accordance with § 4279.115(c).
(l) The purchase of preferred stock or similar equity issued by a cooperative organization or a fund that invests primarily in cooperative organizations in accordance with § 4279.115(b).
(m) Taxable corporate bonds when the bonds are fully amortizing and comply with all provisions of § 4279.126, and the bond holder (lender) retains 5 percent of the bond in accordance with § 4279.77. The bonds must be fully secured with collateral in accordance with § 4279.131(b). The bonds must only provide for a trustee when the trustee
is totally under the control of the lender. The bonds must provide no rights to bond holders other than the right to receive the payments due under the bond. For instance, the bonds must not provide for bond holders replacing the trustee or directing the trustee to take servicing actions, such as accelerating the bonds. Convertible bonds are not eligible under this paragraph due to the potential conflict of interest of a lender having an ownership interest in the borrower.
(1) The bond issuer (borrower) must not issue more than 11 bonds, with no more than 10 of those bonds being guaranteed under this program. The bond issuer must obtain the services and opinion of an experienced bond counsel who must present a legal opinion stating that the bonds are legal, valid, and binding obligations of the issuer and that the issuer has adhered to all applicable laws.
(2) The bond holder must purchase all of the bonds and comply with all Agency regulations. There must be a bond purchase agreement between the issuer and the bond holder. The bond purchase agreement must contain similar language to what is required to be in a loan agreement in accordance with § 4279.161(b)(11) and must not be in conflict with subparts A or B of part 4279 or subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter. The bond holder is responsible for all servicing of the loan (bond), although the bond holder may contract for servicing assistance, including contracting with a trustee who remains under the lender's total control.
(n) Interest (including interest on interim financing) during the period before the first principal payment becomes due or when the facility becomes income producing, whichever is earlier.
(o) Fees and charges outlined in § 4279.120(a), (c) and (d).
(p) Feasibility studies.
(q) Agricultural production, when not eligible for Farm Service Agency (FSA) farm loan programs assistance and when it is part of an integrated business also involved in the processing of agricultural products. Any agricultural production considered for guaranteed loan financing must be owned, operated, and maintained by the business receiving the loan for which a guarantee is provided. Except for cooperative stock purchase loans in accordance with § 4279.115(a), independent agricultural production operations are not eligible, even if not eligible for FSA farm loan programs assistance.
(1) The agricultural-production portion of any loan must not exceed 50 percent of the total loan or $5 million, whichever is less.
(2) This paragraph does not preclude financing the following types of businesses:
(i) Commercial nurseries engaged in the production of ornamental plants, trees, and other nursery products, such as bulbs, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of plants from seed to the transplant stage; and forestry, which includes businesses primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, and related activities, such as reforestation.
(ii) The growing of mushrooms or hydroponics.
(iii) The boarding and/or training of animals.
(iv) Commercial fishing.
(v) Aquaculture, including conservation, development, and utilization of water for aquaculture.
(r) Educational or training facilities.
(s) Industries undergoing adjustment from terminated Federal agricultural price and income support programs or increased competition from foreign trade.
(t) Community facility projects that are not listed as an ineligible loan purpose in § 4279.117.
(u) Nursing homes and assisted living facilities where constant medical care is provided and available onsite to the residents. Independent living facilities are considered residential in nature and are not eligible in accordance with § 4279.117(d).
(v) Tourist and recreation facilities, including hotels, motels, bed and breakfast establishments, and resort trailer parks and campgrounds, except as prohibited under ineligible purposes in § 4279.117.
(w) Pollution control and abatement.
(x) Energy projects that are not eligible for the Rural Energy for America
Program (REAP) (7 CFR part 4280, subpart B), unless sufficient funding is not available under REAP, and when the facility has been constructed according to plans and specifications and is producing at the quality and quantity projected in the application. This does not preclude the guarantee of joint REAP/B
I projects. Eligible energy projects must be commercially available. Eligible energy projects also include those that reduce reliance on nonrenewable energy resources by encouraging the development and construction of solar energy systems and other renewable energy systems (including wind energy systems and anaerobic digesters for the purpose of energy generation), including the modification of existing systems in rural areas.
(1) Projects that produce renewable biomass or biofuel as an output must utilize commercially available technologies and have completed two operating cycles at design performance levels prior to issuance of a Loan Note Guarantee.
(2) Projects that produce steam or electricity as an output must have met acceptance test performance criteria acceptable to the Agency and be successfully interconnected with the purchaser of the output. An executed power purchase agreement acceptable to the Agency will be required prior to issuance of a Loan Note Guarantee.
(3) Performance or acceptance test requirements for all other energy projects will be determined by the Agency on a case-by-case basis.
(y) Projects that process, distribute, aggregate, store, and/or market locally or regionally produced agricultural food products to support community development and farm and ranch income, subject to each of the following:
(1) The term “locally or regionally produced agricultural food product” means any agricultural food product that is raised, produced, and distributed in the locality or region in which the final product is marketed, so that the distance the product is transported is less than 400 miles from the origin of the product, or within the State in which the product is produced. Food products could be raw, cooked, or a processed edible substance, beverage, or ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human consumption.
(2) Projects may be located in urban areas, as well as rural areas.
(3) A significant amount of the food product sold by the borrower is locally or regionally produced, and a significant amount of the locally or regionally produced food product is sold locally or regionally. The Agency is choosing not to set a threshold for “significant” but reserves the right to do so in periodic notices in the
Federal Register
.
(4) The borrower must include in an appropriate agreement, with retail and institutional facilities to which the borrower sells locally or regionally produced agricultural food products, a requirement to inform consumers of the retail or institutional facilities that the consumers are purchasing or consuming locally or regionally produced agricultural food products.
(5) The Agency will give funding priority to projects that provide a benefit to underserved communities in accordance with § 4279.166(b)(4)(i)(G). An underserved community is a community (including an urban or rural community and an Indian tribal community) that has limited access to affordable, healthy foods, including fresh fruits and vegetables, in grocery retail stores or farmer to consumer direct markets and that has either a high rate of hunger or food insecurity or a high poverty rate as reflected in the most recent decennial census or other Agency-approved census.
(z) A borrower is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this subpart to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
[81 FR 36005, June 3, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 57084, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 4279.114
[Reserved]
§ 4279.115
Cooperative stock/cooperative equity.
(a)
Cooperative stock purchase program.
The Agency may guarantee loans for the purchase of cooperative stock by individual farmers or ranchers in a
farmer or rancher cooperative established for the purpose of processing an agricultural commodity. The cooperative may use the proceeds from the stock sale to recapitalize, to develop a new processing facility or product line, or to expand an existing production facility. The cooperative may contract for services to process agricultural commodities or otherwise process value-added agricultural products during the 5-year period beginning on the operation startup date of the cooperative in order to provide adequate time for the planning and construction of the processing facility of the cooperative. Loan proceeds must remain in the cooperative from which stock was purchased, and the cooperative must not reinvest those funds into another entity. The Agency may also guarantee loans for the purchase of transferable stock shares of any type of existing cooperative, which would primarily involve new or incoming members. Such stock may provide delivery or some form of participation rights and may only be traded among cooperative members. Paragraphs (5) through (7) of this section are not applicable for guaranteed loans for the purchase of transferable cooperative stock.
(1) The maximum loan amount is the threshold established in § 4279.161(c), and all applications will be processed in accordance with § 4279.161(c).
(2) The maximum term is 7 years.
(3) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a borrower default.
(4) The lender must complete a written credit analysis of each stock purchase loan and a complete credit analysis of the cooperative prior to making its first stock purchase loan.
(5) The borrower may provide financial information in the manner that is generally required by commercial agricultural lenders.
(6) A feasibility study of the cooperative is required for startup cooperatives and may be required by the Agency for existing cooperatives when the cooperative's operations will be significantly affected by the proceeds that were generated from the stock sale.
(7) The Agency will conduct an appropriate environmental assessment on the processing facility and will not process individual applications for the purchase of stock until the environmental assessment on the cooperative processing facility is completed. Typically, an individual loan for the purchase of cooperative stock is considered a categorical exclusion.
(b)
Cooperative equity security guarantees.
The Agency may guarantee loans for the purchase of preferred stock or similar equity issued by a cooperative organization or for a fund that invests primarily in cooperative organizations. In either case, the guarantee must significantly benefit one or more entities eligible for assistance under the B
I program.
(1) “Similar equity” is any special class of equity stock that is available for purchase by non-members and/or members and lacks voting and other governance rights.
(2) A fund that invests “primarily” in cooperative organizations is determined by its percentage share of investments in and loans to cooperatives. A fund portfolio must have at least 50 percent of its loans and investments in cooperatives to be considered eligible for loan guarantees for the purchase of preferred stock or similar equity.
(3) The principal amount of the loan will not exceed $10 million.
(4) The maximum term is 7 years or no longer than the specified holding period for redemption as stated by the stock offering, whichever is less.
(5) All borrowers purchasing preferred stock or similar equity must provide documentation of the terms of the offering that includes compliance with State and Federal securities laws and financial information about the issuer of the preferred stock to both the lender and the Agency.
(6) Issuer(s) of preferred stock must be a cooperative organization or a fund and must be able to issue preferred stock to the public that, if required, complies with State and Federal securities laws.
(7) A fund must use a loan guaranteed under this subpart to purchase
preferred stock that is issued by cooperatives.
(8) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the preferred stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a borrower default. For the purpose of recovering losses from loan defaults, lenders may take ownership of all equities purchased with such loans, including additional shares derived from reinvestment of dividends.
(9) Shares of preferred stock that are purchased with guaranteed loan proceeds cannot be converted to common or voting stock.
(10) In the absence of adequate provisions for investors' rights to early redemption of preferred stock or similar equity, a borrower must request from a cooperative or fund issuing such equities a contingent waiver of the holding or redemption period in advance of share purchases. This contingent waiver provides that in the event a borrower defaults on a loan financed under the guaranteed loan program, the borrower waives any ownership rights in the stock, and the lender and Agency will then have the right to redeem the stock.
(11) Guaranteed loans for the purchase of preferred stock must be prepaid in the event a cooperative or fund that issued the stock exercises an early redemption. If the cooperative enters into bankruptcy, to the extent the cooperative can redeem the preferred stock, the borrower is required to repay the loan from the redemption of the stock.
(c)
Employee ownership succession.
The Agency may guarantee loans for conversions of businesses to either cooperatives or Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOP) within 5 years from the date of initial transfer of stock.
(1) The maximum loan amount is the threshold established in § 4279.161(c), and all applications will be processed in accordance with § 4279.161(c).
(2) The maximum term is 7 years.
(3) The lender will, at a minimum, obtain a valid lien on the stock, an assignment of any patronage refund, and the ability to transfer the stock to another party, or otherwise liquidate and dispose of the collateral in the event of a borrower default.
(4) The lender must complete a written credit analysis of each stock purchase loan and a complete credit analysis of the cooperative or ESOP prior to making its first stock purchase loan.
(5) If a cooperative is organized, the selling owner(s) become members with special control rights to protect their stake in the business while a succession plan is implemented. At the completion of the stock transfer, selling owners may retain their membership in the cooperative provided that their control rights are the same as all other members. Any special covenants that selling owners may have held must be extinguished upon completion of the transfer.
(6) If an ESOP is organized for transferring ownership to employees, selling owner(s) may not retain ownership in the business after 5 years from the date of the initial transfer of stock.
§ 4279.116
New Markets Tax Credit program.
This section identifies the provisions specific to guaranteed loans involving projects that include new markets tax credits available under the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) program. Such applicants and applications must comply with the provisions in subparts A and B of this part, except as modified in this section.
(a)
Loan guarantees for Qualified Active Low Income Community Businesses (QALICB).
(1) To be an eligible lender for a loan guarantee that involves NMTCs, the organization must meet the applicable eligibility criteria in § 4279.29 as otherwise modified by paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Sub-entities under the control of a non-regulated lender approved as a lender for this program do not need to separately meet the requirements of § 4279.29(b). An eligible non-regulated lender may modify its list of eligible sub-entities under its control at any time by notifying the Agency in writing.
(ii) In order to take advantage of the requirement exemption in paragraph
(a)(1)(i) of this section, the non-regulated lender must include in its application to be a lender each sub-entity under its control and must clearly define the multiple-entity organizational and control structure. In addition, the lender must include each such sub-entity in the audited financial statements, commercial loan portfolio, and commercial loan performance statistics.
(2) The provisions of § 4279.117(q) notwithstanding, a lender that is a Department of Treasury certified Community Development Entity (CDE) or subsidiary of a CDE (sub-CDE) may have an ownership interest in the borrower provided that each of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section is met.
(i) The lender does not have an ownership interest in the borrower prior to the guaranteed loan application.
(ii) The lender does not take a controlling interest in the borrower.
(iii) The lender cannot provide equity or take an ownership interest in a borrower at a level that would result in the lender owning 20 percent or more interest in the borrower.
(iv) In its guaranteed loan application, the lender provides an Agency-approved exit strategy when the NMTCs expire after the seventh year. The CDE's (or sub-CDE's) exit strategy must include a general plan to address the lender's equity in the project, and, if the lender will divest its equity interest, how this will be accomplished and the impact on the borrower.
(3) Notwithstanding § 4279.117(p), a CDE's (or sub-CDE's) ownership interest in the borrower does not constitute a conflict of interest. The Agency will mitigate the potential for or appearance of a conflict of interest by requiring appropriate loan covenants regarding limitations on dividends and distributions of earnings be established, as well as other covenants in accordance with § 4279.161(b)(11). The Agency will also ensure that the lender limits waivers of loan covenants and future modifications of loan documents.
(4) For purposes of calculating tangible balance sheet equity, the CDE's or sub-CDE's loan that is subordinated to the guaranteed loan will be considered equity when calculating tangible balance sheet equity. The QALICB's financial statements must be prepared in accordance with GAAP.
(b)
Loan guarantees for the leveraged lender.
The provisions of § 4279.117(s) notwithstanding, an investor fund entity, such as an investor partnership or investor LLC, may be an eligible borrower as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Paragraphs (b)(2) through (13) of this section identify modifications to subpart B of this part that apply when the eligible borrower is an investor fund entity.
(1) To be an eligible borrower for a NMTC loan, each of the following conditions must be met:
(i) The investor fund entity must be established for a single specific NMTC investment;
(ii) The lender is not an affiliate of the investor fund entity;
(iii) One hundred percent of the guaranteed loan funds are or will be invested in one or more sub-CDEs that will then be loaned directly to a Qualified Active Low Income Community Business (QALICB), as defined by applicable regulations of the Internal Revenue Service and are or will be used by the QALICB in accordance with §§ 4279.113 and 4279.117. All of the B
I guaranteed loan funds must be “passed through” the sub-CDE to the QALICB through a direct tracing method. The QALICB's project must be the ultimate use of the B
I guaranteed loan funds; and
(iv) The QALICB meets the requirements of § 4279.108.
(2) The provisions of § 4279.119 apply except that the loan guarantee limits apply to the QALICB and not to the investor fund entity, who would otherwise be understood to be the “borrower.”
(3) Section 4279.126 applies to both the borrower (investor fund entity) and the QALICB. The terms and payment schedule of the lender's loan to the investor fund entity must be at least equal to the terms and payment schedule of the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB. An Agency approved unequal or escalating schedule of principal and interest payments may be used for a NMTC loan. The lender may require additional principal repayment by a co-borrower, such as an owner or principal of the QALICB. The lender or sub-CDE
may require a debt repayment reserve fund or sinking fund; however, such fund is not in lieu of a principal repayment schedule in accordance with § 4279.126 as amended by this paragraph.
(4) Except for § 4279.131(b), § 4279.131 applies to both the lender's loan to the investor fund entity and the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB. Section 4279.131(b) applies only to the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB. Section 4279.116(a)(4) also applies when calculating tangible balance sheet equity.
(5) The personal and corporate guarantee provisions of § 4279.132 and the insurance provisions of § 4279.136 apply only to the QALICB and the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB.
(6) Section 4279.137 applies to both the borrower (investor fund entity) and the QALICB.
(7) Sections 4279.144 and 4279.150 apply to both the QALICB and the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB.
(8) Section 4279.161 applies to both the borrower (investor fund entity) and the QALICB. As part of the application completed by the lender in accordance with § 4279.161, the application documentation must include comparable information for the loan (using the B
I guaranteed loan funds) between the sub-CDE and QALICB. The requirements of § 4279.161 apply to the loan application, application analysis and underwriting, and loan documents between the sub-CDE and QALICB. The lender must include these materials in its guaranteed loan application to the Agency.
(9) The environmental requirements specified in § 4279.165(b) apply to both the loan between the sub-CDE and QALICB and the QALICB's project.
(10) When assigning the priority score to a NMTC loan application under § 4279.166, the Agency will score the project based on the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB, the QALICB, and the QALICB's project as the ultimate use of B
I guaranteed loan funds.
(11) When complying with the planning and performing development provisions in § 4279.167, the lender is responsible for ensuring that both the sub-CDE's loan to the QALICB and the QALICB's project comply with the provisions in § 4279.167.
(12) Section 4279.180 applies to both the borrower (investor fund entity) and the QALICB.
(13) Section 4279.181 applies to both the borrower (investor fund entity) and the QALICB.
[81 FR 36005, June 3, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 26335, June 7, 2017]
§ 4279.117
Ineligible purposes and entity types.
(a) Distribution or payment to an individual or entity that will retain an ownership interest in the borrower or distribution or payment to a beneficiary of the borrower. Distribution or payment to a member of the immediate family of an owner, partner, or stockholder will not be permitted, except for a change in ownership of the business where the selling immediate family member does not retain an ownership interest and the Agency determines the price paid to be reasonable. As this type of transaction is not an arm's length transaction, reasonableness of the price paid will be based upon an appraisal. In situations where there is common ownership or an otherwise closely-related company is being paid to do construction or installation work for a borrower, only documented costs associated with construction or installation can be paid with loan proceeds. Documented construction or installation costs may not include any profit or wages to a related person, and all work must be done at cost with no profit built into the cost. This paragraph does not apply to transfers of ownership for ESOPs or worker cooperatives, to cooperatives where the cooperative pays the member for product or services, or where member stock is transferred among members of the cooperative in accordance with § 4279.115.
(b) Projects in excess of $1 million that would likely result in the transfer of jobs from one area to another and increase direct employment by more than 50 employees. However, this limitation is not to be construed to prohibit assistance for the expansion of an existing business entity through the establishment of a new branch, affiliate, or subsidiary of such entity if the establishment of such branch, affiliate,
or subsidiary will not result in an increase in unemployment in the area of original location or in any other area where such entity conducts business operations, unless there is reason to believe that such branch, affiliate, or subsidiary is being established with the intention of closing down the operations of the existing business entity in the area or its original location or in any other area where it conducts such operations.
(c) Projects in excess of $1 million that would increase direct employment by more than 50 employees, which is calculated to or likely to result in an increase in the production of goods, materials, or commodities, or the availability of services or facilities in the area, when there is not sufficient demand for such goods, materials, commodities, services, or facilities to employ the efficient capacity of existing competitive commercial or industrial enterprises, unless such financial or other assistance will not have an adverse effect upon existing competitive enterprises in the area.
(d) The financing of timeshares, residential trailer parks, housing development sites, apartments, duplexes, or other residential housing, except as authorized in § 4279.113(d).
(e) Owner-occupied housing, such as bed and breakfasts, hotels and motels, storage facilities, etc., are only allowed when the pro rata value of the owner's living quarters, based on square footage, is deducted from the use of loan proceeds.
(f) Guaranteeing lease payments or any lines of credit.
(g) Guaranteeing loans made by other Federal agencies.
(h) Loans made with the proceeds of any obligation the interest on which is excludable from income under 26 U.S.C. 103 or a successor statute. Funds generated through the issuance of tax-exempt obligations shall neither be used to purchase the guaranteed portion of any Agency guaranteed loan nor shall an Agency guaranteed loan serve as collateral for a tax-exempt issue. The Agency may guarantee a loan for a project that involves tax-exempt financing only when the guaranteed loan funds are used to finance a part of the project that is separate and distinct from the part that is financed by the tax-exempt obligation, and the guaranteed loan has at least a parity security position with the tax-exempt obligation.
(i) Guarantees supporting inherently religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, proselytization, or to pay costs associated with acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of structures for inherently religious activities, including the financing of multi-purpose facilities where religious activities will be among the activities conducted.
(j) Businesses that derive more than 10 percent of annual gross revenue (including any lease income from space or machines) from gambling activity, excluding State-authorized lottery proceeds.
(k) Businesses deriving income from activities of a prurient sexual nature or illegal activities.
(l) Racetracks or facilities for the conduct of races by animals, professional or amateur drivers, jockeys, etc.
(m) Golf courses and golf course infrastructure, including par 3 and executive golf courses.
(n) Cemeteries.
(o) Research and development projects and projects that involve technology that is not commercially available.
(p) Any project that the Agency determines creates a conflict of interest or an appearance thereof between any party related to the project.
(q) Guarantees where the lender or any of the lender's officers has an ownership interest in the borrower or is an officer or director of the borrower or where the borrower or any of its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners have more than a 5 percent ownership interest in the lender. Any of the lender's directors, stockholders, or other owners that are officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners of the borrower must be recused from the decisionmaking process.
(r) Other than cooperative stock purchase loans and cooperative equity security guarantees in accordance with § 4279.115, guarantees supporting investment or arbitrage or speculative real estate investment.
(s) Lending institutions, investment institutions, or insurance companies.
(t) Charitable or fraternal organizations. Businesses that derive more than 10 percent of annual gross revenue from tax deductible charitable donations, based on historical financial statements required by § 4279.161(b), are considered charitable organizations for the purpose of this paragraph. Fees for services rendered or that are otherwise ineligible for deduction under the Internal Revenue Code are not considered tax deductible charitable donations.
(u) Any business located within the Coastal Barriers Resource System that does not qualify for an exception as defined in section 6 of the Coastal Barriers Resource Act, 16 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
(v) Any business located in a special flood or mudslide hazard area as designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a community that is not participating in the National Flood Insurance Program unless the project is an integral part of a community's flood control plan.
(w) Any project that drains, dredges, fills, levels, or otherwise manipulates a wetland or engages in any activity that results in impairing or reducing the flow, circulation, or reach of water, except in the case of activity related to the maintenance of previously converted wetlands. This does not apply to loans for utility lines.
§ 4279.118
[Reserved]
§ 4279.119
Loan guarantee limits.
(a)
Loan amount.
The total amount of B
I loans to one borrower (including the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions, the outstanding principal and interest balance of any existing B
I guaranteed loans, and the new loan request) must not exceed $10 million, except as outlined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. In addition to the borrower loan limit, there is a guarantor loan limit of $50 million.
(1) The Administrator may, at the Administrator's discretion, grant an exception to the $10 million limit for loans of $25 million or less under the following circumstances:
(i) The project to be financed is a high-priority project as defined in § 4279.2. Priority points will be awarded in accordance with the criteria contained in § 4279.166;
(ii) The lender must document to the satisfaction of the Agency that the loan will not be made and the project will not be completed if the guaranteed loan is not approved; and
(iii) The percentage of guarantee will not exceed 60 percent. No exception to this requirement will be approved under paragraph (b) of this section for loans exceeding $10 million.
(2) The Secretary, whose authority may not be redelegated, may approve guaranteed loans in excess of $25 million, at the Secretary's discretion, for rural cooperative organizations that process value-added agricultural commodities in accordance with § 4279.113(j)(1).
(b)
Percentage of guarantee.
The percentage of guarantee, up to the maximum allowed by this section, is a matter of negotiation between the lender and the Agency. The maximum percentage of guarantee is 80 percent for loans of $5 million or less, 70 percent for loans between $5 and $10 million, and 60 percent for loans exceeding $10 million. For subsequent guaranteed loans, the maximum percentage of guarantee will be based on the cumulative amount of outstanding principal and interest of any existing B
I guaranteed loans and the new loan request. Notwithstanding the preceding, the Administrator may, at the Administrator's discretion, grant an exception allowing guarantees of up to 90 percent on loans of $5 million or less if the conditions of either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) are met. Each fiscal year, the Agency will establish a limit on the maximum portion of guarantee authority available for that fiscal year that may be used to guarantee loans with an increased percentage of guarantee. The Agency will publish a notice announcing this limit in the
Federal Register
.
(1) The project to be financed is a high-priority project as defined in § 4279.2. Priority points will be awarded in accordance with the criteria contained in § 4279.166; or
(2) The lender documents, to the satisfaction of the Agency, that the loan will not be made and the project will not be completed due to the bank's
legal or regulatory lending limit if the higher percentage of guarantee is not approved.
§ 4279.120
Fees and charges.
There are two types of non-refundable fees—the guarantee fee and the annual renewal fee. These fees are to be paid by the lender but may be passed on to the borrower.
(a)
Guarantee fee.
The guarantee fee is paid at the time the Loan Note Guarantee is issued and may be included as an eligible use of guaranteed loan proceeds. The amount of the guarantee fee is determined by multiplying the total loan amount by the guarantee fee rate by the percentage of guarantee. The rate of the guarantee fee is established by the Agency in an annual notice published in the
Federal Register.
Subject to annual limits set by the Agency in the published notice, the Agency may charge a reduced guarantee fee if requested by the lender for loans of $5 million or less when the borrower's business:
(1) Supports value-added agriculture and results in farmers benefiting financially,
(2) Promotes access to healthy foods, or
(3) Is a high impact business development investment as defined in § 4279.2 and applied in accordance with § 4279.166(b)(4) and is located in a rural community that:
(i) Is experiencing long-term population decline;
(ii) Has remained in poverty for the last 30 years;
(iii) Is experiencing trauma as a result of natural disaster;
(iv) Is located in a city or county with an unemployment rate 125 percent of the Statewide rate or greater; or
(v) Is located within the boundaries of a federally recognized Indian tribe's reservation or within tribal trust lands or within land owned by an Alaska Native Regional or Village Corporation as defined by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
(b)
Annual renewal fee.
The annual renewal fee is paid by the lender to the Agency once a year. Payment of the annual renewal fee is required in order to maintain the enforceability of the guarantee as to the lender.
(1) The Agency will establish the rate of the annual renewal fee in an annual notice published in the
Federal Register.
The amount of the annual renewal fee is determined by multiplying the outstanding principal loan balance as of December 31 of each year by the annual renewal fee rate by the percentage of guarantee. The rate that is in effect at the time the loan is obligated remains in effect for the life of the guarantee on the loan.
(2) Annual renewal fees are due on January 31. Payments not received by April 1 are considered delinquent and, at the Agency's discretion, may result in the Agency terminating the guarantee to the lender. The Agency will provide the lender 30 calendar days' notice that the annual renewal fee is delinquent before terminating the guarantee. Holders' rights will continue in effect as specified in Form RD 4279-5, “Loan Note Guarantee,” and Form RD 4279-6, “Assignment Guarantee Agreement,” unless the holder took possession of an interest in the Loan Note Guarantee knowing the annual renewal fee had not been paid. Until the Loan Note Guarantee is terminated by the Agency, any delinquent annual renewal fees will bear interest at the note rate, and any delinquent annual renewal fees, including any interest due thereon, will be deducted from any loss payment due the lender. For loans where the Loan Note Guarantee is issued between October 1 and December 31, the first annual renewal fee payment is due January 31 of the second year following the date the Loan Note Guarantee was issued.
(3) Lenders are prohibited from selling guaranteed loans on the secondary market if there are unpaid annual renewal fees.
(c)
Routine lender fees.
The lender may establish charges and fees for the loan provided they are similar to those normally charged other applicants for the same type of loan in the ordinary course of business, and these fees are an eligible use of loan proceeds. The lender must document such routine fees on Form RD 4279-1, “Application for Loan Guarantee.” The lender may charge prepayment penalties and late payment fees that are stipulated in the loan documents, as long as they are
reasonable and customary; however, the Loan Note Guarantee will not cover either prepayment penalties or late payment fees.
(d)
Professional services.
Professional services are those rendered by persons generally licensed or certified by States or accreditation associations, such as architects, engineers, accountants, attorneys, or appraisers, and those rendered by loan packagers. The borrower may pay fees for professional services needed for planning and developing a project. Such fees are an eligible use of loan proceeds provided that the Agency agrees that the amounts are reasonable and customary. The lender must document these fees on Form RD 4279-1.
§§ 4279.121-4279.124
[Reserved]
§ 4279.125
Interest rates.
The interest rate for the guaranteed loan will be negotiated between the lender and the borrower and may be either fixed or variable, or a combination thereof, as long as it is a legal rate. Interest rates will not be more than those rates customarily charged borrowers for loans without guarantees and are subject to Agency review and approval. Lenders are encouraged to utilize the secondary market and pass interest-rate savings on to the borrower.
(a) A variable interest rate must be a rate that is tied to a published base rate, published in a national or regional financial publication, agreed to by the lender and the Agency. The variable interest rate must be specified in the promissory note and may be adjusted at different intervals during the term of the loan, but the adjustments may not be more often than quarterly. The lender must incorporate, within the variable rate promissory note at loan closing, the provision for adjustment of payment installments. The lender must fully amortize the outstanding principal balance within the prescribed loan maturity in order to eliminate the possibility of a balloon payment at the end of the loan.
(b) It is permissible to have different interest rates on the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan provided that the rate of the guaranteed portion does not exceed the rate on the unguaranteed portion, except for situations where a fixed rate on the guaranteed portion becomes a higher rate than the variable rate on the unguaranteed portion due to the normal fluctuations in the approved variable interest rate.
(c) Any change in the base rate or fixed interest rate between issuance of Form RD 4279-3, “Conditional Commitment,” and Form RD 4279-5 must be approved in writing by the Agency. Approval of such change must be shown as an amendment to the Conditional Commitment in accordance with § 4279.173(b) and must be reflected on Form RD 1980-19, “Guaranteed Loan Closing Report.”
(d) The lender's promissory note must not contain provisions for default or penalty interest nor will default or penalty interest, interest on interest, or late payment fees or charges be paid under the Loan Note Guarantee.
§ 4279.126
Loan terms.
(a) The length of the loan term must be the same for both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan. The maximum repayment for loans for real estate will not exceed 30 years; machinery and equipment repayment will not exceed the useful life of the machinery and equipment or 15 years, whichever is less; and working capital repayment will not exceed 7 years. The term for a debt refinancing loan may be based on the collateral the lender will take to secure the loan.
(b) A loan's maturity will take into consideration the use of proceeds, the useful life of assets being financed and those used as collateral, and the borrower's ability to repay the loan.
(c) Only loans that require a periodic payment schedule that will retire the debt over the term of the loan without a balloon payment will be guaranteed.
(d) The first installment of principal and interest will, if possible, be scheduled for payment after the facility is operational and has begun to generate income. However, the first full installment must be due and payable within 3 years from the date of the promissory note and be paid at least annually thereafter. In cases where there is an interest-only period, interest will be
paid at least annually from the date of the note.
(e) There must be no “due-on-demand” clauses without cause. Regardless of any “due-on-demand” with cause provision in a lender's promissory note, the Agency must concur in any acceleration of the loan unless the basis for acceleration is monetary default.
§§ 4279.127-4279.130
[Reserved]
§ 4279.131
Credit quality.
The Agency will only guarantee loans that are sound and that have a reasonable assurance of repayment. The lender is responsible for conducting a financial analysis that involves the systematic examination and interpretation of information to assess a company's past performance, present condition, and future viability. The lender is primarily responsible for determining credit quality and must address all of the elements of credit quality in a comprehensive, written credit analysis, including capacity (sufficient cash flow to service the debt), collateral (assets to secure the loan), conditions (borrower, economy, and industry), capital (equity/net worth), and character (integrity of management), as further described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The lender's analysis is the central underwriting document and must be sufficiently detailed to describe the proposed loan and business situation and document that the proposed loan is sound. The lender's analysis must include a written discussion of repayment ability with a cash-flow analysis, history of debt repayment, borrower's management, necessity of any debt refinancing, and credit reports of the borrower, principals, and any parent, affiliate, or subsidiary. The lender's analysis must also include spreadsheets and discussion of the 3 years of historical balance sheets and income statements (for existing businesses) and 2 years of projected balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements, with appropriate ratios and comparisons with industrial standards (such as Dun
Bradstreet or the Risk Management Association). All data must be shown in total dollars and also in common size form, obtained by expressing all balance sheet items as a percentage of assets and all income and expense items as a percentage of sales.
(a)
Capacity/cash flow.
The lender must make all efforts to ensure the borrower has adequate working capital or operating capital and to structure or restructure debt so that the borrower has adequate debt coverage and the ability to accommodate expansion.
(b)
Collateral.
The lender must ensure that the collateral for the loan has a documented value sufficient to protect the interest of the lender and the Agency. The discounted collateral value must be at least equal to the loan amount.
(1) The lender must discount collateral consistent with the sound loan-to-discounted value policy outlined in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. The type, quality, and location of collateral are relevant factors used to assess collateral adequacy and appropriate levels of discounting. Other factors to be considered in the discounted value of collateral must include the marketability and alternative uses of the collateral. That is, specialized buildings or equipment will be discounted greater than multi-purpose facilities or equipment. When using discounts other than those outlined in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iv) and when in accordance with paragraph (b)(2), the lender must document why such discounts are appropriate.
(i) A maximum of 80 percent of current fair market value will be given to real estate. Special purpose real estate must be assigned less value.
(ii) A maximum of 70 percent of cost or current fair market value will be given to machinery, equipment, and furniture and fixtures and will be based on its marketability, mobility, useful life, specialization, and alternative uses, if any.
(iii) A maximum of 60 percent of book value will be assigned to acceptable inventory and accounts receivable; however, all accounts over 90 days past due, contra accounts, affiliated accounts, and other accounts deemed
not to be acceptable collateral, as determined by the Agency, will be omitted. Calculations to determine the percentage to be applied in the analysis are to be based on the realizable value of the accounts receivable taken from a current aging of accounts receivable from the borrower's most recent financial statement. At a minimum, reviewed annual financial statements will be required when there is a predominant reliance on inventory and/or receivable collateral that exceeds $250,000. Except for working capital loans, term debt must not be dependent upon accounts receivable and inventory to meet collateral requirements.
(iv) No value will be assigned to unsecured personal, partnership, or corporate guarantees.
(2) Some businesses are predominantly cash-flow oriented, and where cash flow and profitability are strong, loan-to-value discounts may be adjusted accordingly with satisfactory documentation. A loan primarily based on cash flow must be supported by a successful and documented financial history. Under no circumstances must the loan-to-value of the collateral (loan-to-fair market value) ever be equal to or greater than 100 percent.
(3) Intangible assets cannot serve as primary collateral. For purposes of determining compliance with this requirement, leasehold improvements are considered tangible assets and can serve as primary collateral.
(4) A parity or junior lien position may be considered provided the loan-to-discounted value is adequate to secure the guaranteed loan in accordance with this section.
(5) The entire loan must be secured by the same security with equal lien priority for the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan. The unguaranteed portion of the loan will neither be paid first nor given any preference or priority over the guaranteed portion.
(c)
Conditions.
The lender must consider the current status of the borrower, overall economy, and industry for which credit is being extended. The regulatory environment surrounding the particular business or industry must also be considered. Businesses in areas of decline will be required to provide strong business plans that outline how they differ from the current trends. Local, regional, and national condition of the industry must be addressed.
(d)
Capital/equity.
(1) A minimum of 10 percent tangible balance sheet equity (or a maximum debt to tangible net worth ratio of 9:1) will be required at loan closing for borrowers that are existing businesses. A minimum of 20 percent tangible balance sheet equity (or a maximum debt to tangible net worth ratio of 4:1) will be required at loan closing for borrowers that are new businesses. For energy projects, the minimum tangible balance sheet equity requirement range will be between 25 percent and 40 percent (or a maximum debt to tangible net worth ratio between 3:1 and 1.5:1) at loan closing, considering whether the business is an existing business with a successful financial and management history or a new business; the value of personal/corporate guarantees offered; contractual relationships with suppliers and buyers; credit rating; and strength of the business plan/feasibility study.
(2) Tangible balance sheet equity will be determined based upon financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP except that, for the purposes of this subpart, leasehold improvements are to be considered tangible assets when making the tangible balance sheet equity calculation. The capital/equity requirement must be met in the form of either cash or tangible earning assets contributed to the business and reflected on the borrower's balance sheet. Transfers of assets at fair market value between related parties, which are not arm's length transactions, must be in accordance with GAAP and require evidence that the transaction was entered into at market terms. Tangible equity cannot include appraisal surplus, bargain purchase gains, or intangible assets (except for leasehold improvements). Owner subordinated debt may be included when the subordinated debt is in exchange for cash injected into the business that remains in the business for the life of the guaranteed loan. The note or other form of evidence must be submitted to the Agency in order for subordinated debt to count towards
meeting the tangible balance sheet equity requirement.
(3) The lender must certify, in accordance with § 4279.181(a)(9)(i), that the capital/equity requirement was determined, based on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP, and met, as of the date the guaranteed loan was closed, giving effect to the entirety of the loan in the calculation, whether or not the loan itself is fully advanced. A copy of the loan closing balance sheet must be included with the lender's certification.
(4) In situations where a real estate holding company and an operating entity are dependent upon one another's operations and are effectively one business, they must be co-borrowers, unless waived by the Agency when the Agency determines that adequate justification exists to not require the entities to be co-borrowers. The capital/equity requirement will apply to all borrowing entities on a consolidated basis, and financial statements must be prepared both individually and on a consolidated basis.
(5) In situations where co-borrowers are independent operations, the capital/equity requirement will apply to all co-borrowers on an individual basis.
(6) For sole proprietorships and other situations where business assets are held personally, financial statements must be prepared using only the assets and liabilities directly attributable to the business. Assets, plus any improvements, must be valued at the lower of cost or fair market value.
(7) Increases in the equity requirement may be imposed by the Agency. A reduction in the capital/equity requirement for existing businesses may be permitted by the Administrator under the following conditions:
(i) Collateralized personal and/or corporate guarantees, in accordance with § 4279.132, when feasible and legally permissible, are obtained; and
(ii) All pro forma and historical financial statements indicate the business to be financed meets or exceeds the median quartile (as identified in the Risk Management Association's Annual Statement Studies or similar publication) for the current ratio, quick ratio, debt-to-worth ratio, and debt coverage ratio.
(e)
Character.
The lender must conduct a thorough review of key management personnel to ensure that the business has adequately trained and experienced managers. The borrower and all owners with a 20 percent or more ownership interest must have a good credit history, reflecting a record of meeting obligations in a timely manner. If there have been credit problems in the past, the lender must provide a satisfactory explanation to show that the problems are unlikely to recur.
[81 FR 36005, June 3, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 11634, Mar. 16, 2018]
§ 4279.132
Personal and corporate guarantees.
(a) Full, unconditional personal and/or corporate guarantees for the full term of the loan are required from those owning 20 percent or more interest in the borrower, where legally permissible, unless the Agency grants an exception. The Agency may grant an exception for existing businesses only when the lender requests it and documents to the Agency's satisfaction that collateral, equity, cash flow and profitability indicate an above-average ability to repay the loan. Partial guarantees for the full term of the loan at least equal to each owner's percentage of interest in the borrower times the loan amount may be required in lieu of full, unconditional guarantees when the guarantors' percentages equal 100 percent so that the loan is fully guaranteed.
(b) When warranted by an Agency assessment of potential financial risk, the Agency may require the following:
(1) Guarantees to be secured;
(2) Guarantees of parent, subsidiaries, or affiliated companies owning less than a 20 percent interest in the borrower; and
(3) Guarantees from persons whose ownership interest in the borrower is held indirectly through intermediate entities.
(c) All personal and corporate guarantors must execute Form RD 4279-14, “Unconditional Guarantee,” and any guarantee form required by the lender. The Agency will retain the original, executed Form RD 4279-14.
(1) Any amounts paid by the Agency on behalf of an Agency guaranteed loan
borrower will constitute a Federal debt owed to the Agency by the guaranteed loan borrower.
(2) Any amounts paid by the Agency pursuant to a claim by a guaranteed program lender will constitute a Federal debt owed to the Agency by a guarantor of the loan, to the extent of the amount of the guarantor's guarantee.
(3) In all instances under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, interest charges will be assessed in accordance with 7 CFR 1951.133.
§§ 4279.133-4279.135
[Reserved]
§ 4279.136
Insurance.
The lender is responsible for ensuring that required insurance is maintained by the borrower.
(a)
Hazard.
Hazard insurance with a standard clause naming the lender as mortgagee or loss payee, as applicable, is required for the life of the guaranteed loan. The amount must be at least equal to the replacement value of the collateral or the outstanding balance of the loan, whichever is the greater amount.
(b)
Life.
The lender may require a collateral assignment of life insurance to insure against the risk of death of persons critical to the success of the business. When required, coverage must be in amounts necessary to provide for management succession or to protect the business. The Agency may require life insurance on key individuals for loans where the lender has not otherwise proposed such coverage. The cost of insurance and its effect on the applicant's working capital must be considered, as well as the amount of existing insurance that could be assigned without requiring additional expense.
(c)
Worker compensation.
Worker compensation insurance is required in accordance with State law.
(d)
Flood.
National flood insurance is required in accordance with applicable law.
(e)
Other.
The lender must consider whether public liability, business interruption, malpractice, and other insurance is appropriate to the borrower's particular business and circumstances and must require the borrower to obtain such insurance as is necessary to protect the interests of the borrower, the lender, or the Agency.
§ 4279.137
Financial statements.
Except for audited financial statements required by § 4279.71, the lender will determine the type and frequency of submission of financial statements by the borrower and any guarantors. At a minimum, annual financial statements prepared by an accountant in accordance with GAAP are required, except for personal financial statements and cooperative stock purchase loans in accordance with § 4279.115(a) that do not have to be prepared in accordance with GAAP. However, if the loan amount exceeds $10 million or if circumstances warrant, the Agency may require annual audited financial statements.
§§ 4279.138-4279.143
[Reserved]
§ 4279.144
Appraisals.
Lenders must obtain appraisals for real estate and chattel collateral when the value of the collateral exceeds $250,000, unless the chattel is newly-acquired equipment and the value is supported by a bill of sale. For collateral values under this threshold, lenders must follow their primary regulator's policies relating to appraisals and evaluations or, if the lender is not regulated, normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. Lenders must use the fair market value as established by the appraisal and discounting policies outlined in § 4279.131(b) to meet the discounted collateral coverage requirements of this subpart. Lenders are responsible for ensuring that appraisal values adequately reflect the actual value of the collateral. The Agency will require documentation that the appraiser has the necessary experience and competency to appraise the property in question. Appraisals must not be more than 1 year old, and a more recent appraisal may be requested by the Agency in order to reflect more current market conditions. For loan servicing purposes, an appraisal may be updated in lieu of a complete new appraisal when the original appraisal is more than 1 year old but less than 2 years old. Failure by the lender to follow
these requirements will be considered not acting in a reasonably prudent manner.
(a) All real property appraisals associated with Agency guaranteed loanmaking and servicing transactions must meet the requirements contained in the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) of 1989, and the appropriate guidelines contained in Standards 1 and 2 of the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices (USPAP) and be performed by a State Certified General Appraiser. Notwithstanding any exemption that may exist for transactions guaranteed by a Federal government agency, all appraisals obtained by the lender for loanmaking and servicing must conform to the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluations Guidelines established by the lender's primary Federal or State regulator. All appraisals must include consideration of the potential effects from a release of hazardous substances or petroleum products or other environmental hazards on the fair market value of the collateral, if applicable. The lender must complete and submit its technical review of the appraisal. For construction projects, the lender must use the “as-completed” market value of the real estate to determine value of the real estate property.
(b) Values of both tangible and intangible assets, including values attributed to business valuation or as a going concern, must be reported individually/separately in the appraisal as values attributed to business valuation or as a going concern will be deducted from the reconciled fair market value of the hard assets for purposes of calculating collateral coverage.
(c) Chattels with values under the $250,000 threshold must be evaluated in accordance with the lender's primary regulator's policies relating to appraisals and evaluations or, if the lender is not regulated, normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. Chattel appraisals must reflect the age, condition, and remaining useful life of the equipment. If the appraisal is completed by a State licensed/certified appraiser, the appraisal report must comply with USPAP Standards 7 and 8.
[81 FR 36005, June 3, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 54477, Aug. 16, 2016]
§§ 4279.145-4279.149
[Reserved]
§ 4279.150
Feasibility studies.
A feasibility study, by a qualified independent consultant acceptable to the Agency, is required for new businesses. The Agency may require a feasibility study for existing businesses when the project will significantly affect the borrower's operations, and cash flow from the existing facility is not sufficient to service the new debt. At a minimum, a feasibility study must include an evaluation of the economic, market, technical, financial, and management feasibility and an executive summary that reaches an overall conclusion as to the business' chance of success. The income approach of an appraisal is not an acceptable feasibility study.
§§ 4279.151-4279.160
[Reserved]
§ 4279.161
Filing preapplications and applications.
Borrowers and lenders are encouraged to file preapplications and obtain Agency comments before completing an application. However, if they prefer, borrowers and lenders may file a complete application without filing a preapplication. The Agency will neither accept nor process preapplications and applications unless a lender has agreed to finance the proposal. For borrowers other than individuals, a Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) is required. Instructions for obtaining the UEI are available at
https://sam.gov/.
Guaranteed loans exceeding $600,000 must be submitted under the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section. However, guaranteed loans of $600,000 and less may be submitted under the requirements of either paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(a)
Preapplications.
Lenders may file preapplications by submitting the following to the Agency:
(1) A letter or preliminary lender credit analysis, signed by the lender, containing the following:
(i) Name of the proposed borrower, organization type, address, contact person, Federal tax identification number, email address, and telephone number;
(ii) Name of the proposed lender, address, telephone number, contact person, email address, and lender's Internal Revenue Service (IRS) identification number;
(iii) Amount of the loan request, percent of guarantee requested, and the proposed rates and terms;
(iv) Description of collateral to be offered with estimated value(s) and the amount and source of equity to be contributed to the project;
(v) A brief description of the project, products or services provided, and availability of raw materials and supplies; and
(vi) The number of current full-time equivalent jobs, the number of jobs to be created as a result of the proposed loan, and the overall average wage rate.
(2) The borrower's current (not more than 90 days old) balance sheet and year-to-date income statement. For existing businesses, also include balance sheets and income statements for the last 3 years; and
(3) A completed Form RD 4279-2, “Certification of Non-Relocation and Market Capacity Information Report,” if the proposed loan is in excess of $1 million and will increase direct employment by more than 50 employees.
(b)
Applications.
Lenders must submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (19) of this section when filing an application with the Agency.
(1) A completed Form RD 4279-1.
(2) A completed Form RD 4279-2, if the proposed loan is in excess of $1 million and will increase direct employment by more than 50 employees, unless already submitted in accordance with § 4279.161(a)(3).
(3) Environmental review documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures,” or successor regulation.
(4) A personal or commercial credit report from an acceptable credit reporting company for each individual or entity owning 20 percent or more interest in the borrower, except for those corporations listed on a major stock exchange. Credit reports are not required for elected and appointed officials when the applicant is a public body or non-profit corporation.
(5) Commercial credit reports for the borrower(s) and any parent, affiliate, and subsidiary companies.
(6) Current (not more than 90 days old) financial statements for any parent, affiliate, and subsidiary companies.
(7) Current (not more than 90 days old) personal and corporate financial statements of any guarantors.
(8) For all borrowers, a current (not more than 90 days old) balance sheet and year-to-date income statement, a pro forma balance sheet projected for loan closing, and projected balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements for the next 2 years. Projections must be prepared in line with GAAP standards and supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. In the event processing of the loan is not complete within 90 days, a current set of financial statements will be required every 90 days.
(9) For borrowers that are existing businesses, balance sheets and income statements for the last 3 years. If the business has been in operation for less than 3 years, balance sheets and income statements for all years for which financial information is available.
(10) The lender's comprehensive, written credit analysis of the proposal, as described in § 4279.131.
(11) A draft loan agreement. A final loan agreement must be executed by the lender and borrower before the Agency issues a Loan Note Guarantee and must contain any additional requirements imposed by the Agency in its Conditional Commitment. The loan agreement must establish prudent, adequate controls to protect the interests of the lender and Agency. At a minimum, the following requirements must be included in the loan agreement:
(i) Type and frequency of borrower and guarantor financial statements to be required for the duration of the loan;
(ii) Prohibition against assuming liabilities or obligations of others;
(iii) Limitations on dividend payments and compensation of officers and owners;
(iv) Limitation on the purchase and sale of equipment and other fixed assets;
(v) Restrictions concerning consolidations, mergers, or other circumstances and a limitation on selling the business without the concurrence of the lender;
(vi) Maximum debt-to-net worth ratio; and
(vii) Minimum debt service coverage ratio.
(12) Intergovernmental consultation comments in accordance with 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, or successor regulation, unless exemptions have been granted by the State single point of contact.
(13) Appraisals, accompanied by a copy of the appropriate environmental site assessment, if available, and the technical review of the appraisals required by § 4279.144(a).
(14) A business plan or similar document that must include a description of the business and project; management experience; sources of capital; products, services, and pricing; marketing plan; proposed use of funds; availability of labor, raw materials, and supplies; contracts in place; distribution channels; and the names of any corporate parent, affiliates, and subsidiaries with a description of the relationship. A business plan may be omitted if the information is included in a feasibility study. A business plan may also be omitted when loan proceeds are used exclusively for debt refinancing and fees.
(15) Independent feasibility study, if required.
(16) For companies listed on a major stock exchange or subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, a copy of SEC Form 10-K, “Annual Report Pursuant to sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.”
(17) For health care facilities, a certificate of need, if required by statute or State law.
(18) For guaranteed loan applications for five or more residential units, including nursing homes and assisted-living facilities, an Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan that is in conformance with 7 CFR 1901.203(c)(3).
(19) Any additional information required by the Agency to make a decision, including any information needed to score the project in accordance with § 4279.166.
(c)
Applications of $600,000 and less.
Guaranteed loan applications may be processed under this paragraph if the request does not exceed $600,000, provided the Agency determines that there is not a significant increased risk of a default on the loan. A lender may need to resubmit an application under paragraph (b) of this section if the application under this paragraph does not contain sufficient information for the Agency to make a decision to guarantee the loan. Applications submitted under this paragraph must include the information contained in paragraphs (b)(1) (with the short application box marked at the top of Form RD 4279-1), (b)(3), (b)(8) through (10), (b)(12), and (b)(13) of this section. The lender must have the documentation identified in paragraph (b) of this section, with the exception of paragraph (b)(2), available in its file for review.
[81 FR 36005, June 3, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]
§ 4279.162
Strategic economic and community development.
Applicants with projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans are encouraged to review and consider 7 CFR part 1980, subpart K, which contains provisions for providing priority to projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans on a multi-jurisdictional and multi-sectoral basis.
[85 FR 59395, Sept. 22, 2020]
§§ 4279.163-4279.164
[Reserved]
§ 4279.165
Evaluation of application.
(a)
General review.
The Agency will evaluate the application and make a determination whether the borrower is eligible, the proposed loan is for an eligible purpose, there is reasonable assurance of repayment ability, there is sufficient collateral and equity, and the proposed loan complies with all applicable statutes and regulations. If the
Agency determines it is unable to guarantee the loan, it will inform the lender in writing.
(b)
Environmental requirements.
The environmental review process must be completed, in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures,” or successor regulation, prior to loan approval.
§ 4279.166
Loan priority scoring.
The Agency will consider applications and preapplications in the order they are received by the Agency; however, for the purpose of assigning priority points as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Agency will compare an application to other pending applications that are competing for funding. The Agency may establish a minimum loan priority score to fund projects from the National Office reserve and will publish any minimum loan priority score in a notice published in the
Federal Register
.
(a) When applications on hand otherwise have equal priority, the Agency will give preference to applications for loans from qualified veterans.
(b) The Agency will assign priority points on the basis of the point system contained in this section. The Agency will use the application and supporting information to determine an eligible proposed project's priority for available guarantee authority. To the extent possible, all lenders must consider Agency priorities when choosing projects for guarantee. The lender must provide necessary information related to determining the score, if requested.
(1)
Population priority.
Projects located in an unincorporated area or in a city with a population under 25,000 (10 points).
(2)
Demographics priority.
The priority score for demographics priority will be the total score for the following categories:
(i) Located in an eligible area of long-term population decline according to the last three decennial censuses (5 points);
(ii) Located in a rural county that has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty based on the last three decennial censuses (10 points);
(iii) Located in a rural community that is experiencing trauma as a result of natural disaster (5 points);
(iv) Located in a city or county with an unemployment rate 125 percent of the Statewide rate or greater (5 points);
(v) Located within the boundaries of a Federally recognized Indian tribe's reservation, within tribal trust lands, or within land owned by an Alaska Native Regional or Village Corporation as defined by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (5 points); and
(vi) Business is owned by a qualified veteran as defined by § 4279.2 (5 points).
(3)
Loan features.
The priority score for loan features will be the total score for each of the following categories:
(i) Lender will price the guaranteed loan at an interest rate equal to or less than the equivalent of the Wall Street Journal published Prime Rate plus 1.5 percent (5 points);
(ii) Lender will price the guaranteed loan at an interest rate equal to or less than the equivalent of the Wall Street Journal published Prime Rate plus 1 percent (5 points);
(iii) The Agency guaranteed loan is less than 60 percent of project cost (5 points);
(iv) The Agency guaranteed loan is less than 50 percent of project cost (5 points);
(v) The Agency guaranteed loan is less than 40 percent of project cost (5 points); and
(vi) For loans not requesting an exception under § 4279.119(b), the percentage of guarantee is 10 or more percentage points less than the maximum allowable for a loan of its size (5 points).
(4)
High impact business investment priorities.
The priority score for high impact business investment will be the total score for the following categories:
(i)
Business/industry.
The priority score for business/industry will be the total score for the following:
(A) Industry that is not already present in the community (5 points);
(B) Business that has 20 percent or more of its sales in international markets (5 points);
(C) Business that offers high value, specialized products and/or services that command high prices (5 points);
(D) Business that provides an additional market for existing local businesses (5 points);
(E) Business that is locally owned and managed (5 points);
(F) Business that will produce a natural resource value-added product (5 points); and
(G) Business that processes, distributes, aggregates, stores, and/or markets locally or regionally produced agricultural food products to underserved communities in accordance with § 4279.113(y)(5) (10 points).
(ii)
Occupations.
The priority score for occupations will be the total score for the following:
(A) Business that creates or saves jobs with an average wage exceeding 125 percent of the Federal minimum wage (5 points);
(B) Business that creates or saves jobs with an average wage exceeding 150 percent of the Federal minimum wage (5 points); and
(C) Business that offers a healthcare benefits package to all employees, with at least 50 percent of the premium paid by the employer (5 points).
(5)
Administrative points.
The State Director may assign up to 10 additional points to an application to account for Statewide distribution of funds, natural disasters or economic emergency conditions, community economic development strategies, State strategic plans, fundamental structural changes in a community's economic base, or projects that will fulfill an Agency initiative. In addition to the State Director assigned points, if an application is considered in the National Office, the Administrator may assign up to an additional 10 points to account for geographic distribution of funds, emergency conditions caused by economic problems or natural disasters, or projects that will fulfill an Agency initiative.
§ 4279.167
Planning and performing development.
(a)
Design policy.
The lender must ensure that all facilities constructed with program funds are designed, and costs estimated, by an independent professional, utilizing accepted architectural, engineering, and design practices. The Agency may require an independent professional architect on complex projects. The lender must ensure the design conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local codes and requirements. The lender must also ensure that the project will be completed with available funds and, once completed, will be used for its intended purpose and produce in the quality and quantity proposed in the completed application approved by the Agency. Once construction is completed, the lender must provide the Agency with a copy of the Notice of Completion or similar document issued by the relevant building jurisdiction.
(b)
Issuing the Loan Note Guarantee prior to project completion.
If the lender requests that the Loan Note Guarantee be issued prior to construction or completion of a project, the lender must have a construction monitoring plan acceptable to the Agency and undertake the added responsibilities set forth in this paragraph. The lender must monitor the progress of construction and undertake the reviews and inspections necessary to ensure that construction conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local code requirements; proceeds are used in accordance with the approved plans, specifications, and contract documents; and that funds are used for eligible project costs. The lender must expeditiously report any problems in project development to the Agency.
(1) In cases of takeout of interim financing where the Loan Note Guarantee is issued prior to construction or completion of a project, the promissory note must contain the terms and conditions of the interim financing and the permanent financing and convert the interim financing to the permanent note as the Loan Note Guarantee can only be placed on one note.
(2) Prior to disbursement of construction funds, the lender must have:
(i) A complete set of plans and specifications for the project on file;
(ii) A detailed timetable for the project with a corresponding budget of costs setting forth the parties responsible for payment. The timetable and budget must be agreed to by the borrower;
(iii) A person, who may be the project architect or engineer, with demonstrated experience relating to the project's industry, confirm that the budget is adequate for the planned development;
(iv) A firm, fixed-price construction contract with an independent general contractor with costs and provisions for change order approvals, a retainage percentage, and a disbursement schedule; a 100 percent performance/payment bond on the borrower's contractor; or a contract with an independent disbursement and monitoring firm where project construction and completion are guaranteed. A bonding agent must be listed on Treasury Circular 570; and
(v) Contingencies in place to handle unforeseen cost overruns without seeking additional guaranteed assistance. These are to be agreed to by the borrower.
(3) Once construction begins, the lender is to:
(i) Use any borrower funds in the project first;
(ii) Ensure that the project is built to support the functions at the level and quality contemplated by the borrower through the use of accepted architectural and engineering practices. There is no absolute requirement that the goal be achieved by the use of a professional inspection. However, if after careful review, it appears that the use of a professional inspector is the only method that ensures the project is built to support the functions at the level and quality contemplated by the borrower through the use of accepted architectural and engineering practices, one may be required by the Agency. If one is required, inspections must be made by a qualified, independent inspector prior to any progress payment. If other less expensive or rigorous methods will achieve the same result, they may be utilized. The decision will be made on a case-by-case basis and must be reasonable under the specific circumstances of the case;
(iii) Obtain lien waivers from all contractors and materialmen prior to any disbursement; and
(iv) Provide at least monthly, written reports to the Agency on fund disbursement and project status.
(4) Once construction is completed, the lender is to provide the Agency with a copy of the Notice of Completion or similar document issued by the relevant building jurisdiction.
(c)
Compliance with other Federal laws.
Lenders must comply with other applicable Federal laws, including Equal Employment Opportunities, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Guaranteed loans that involve the construction of or addition to facilities that accommodate the public must comply with the Architectural Barriers Act Accessibility Standard. The borrower and lender are responsible for ensuring compliance with these requirements.
(d)
Environmental responsibilities.
The lender must ensure that the borrower has:
(1) Provided the necessary environmental information to enable the Agency to undertake its environmental review process in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures,” or successor regulation, including the provision of all required Federal, State, and local permits;
(2) Complied with any mitigation measures required by the Agency; and
(3) Not taken any actions or incurred any obligations with respect to the proposed project that would either limit the range of alternatives to be considered during the Agency's environmental review process or that would have an adverse effect on the environment.
§ 4279.168
Timeframe for processing applications.
All complete guaranteed loan applications will be approved or disapproved within 60 days, unless approval is prevented by a lack of guarantee authority or there are delays resulting from public comment requirements of the environmental assessment or outstanding DOL clearance issues.
§§ 4279.169-4279.172
[Reserved]
§ 4279.173
Loan approval and obligating funds.
(a) Upon approval of a loan guarantee, the Agency will issue a Conditional Commitment to the lender, containing conditions under which a Loan Note Guarantee will be issued. No Conditional Commitment can be issued until the loan is obligated. If a Loan Note Guarantee is not issued by the Conditional Commitment expiration date, the Conditional Commitment may be extended at the request of the lender and only if there has been no material adverse change in the borrower or the borrower's financial condition since issuance of the Conditional Commitment. If the Conditional Commitment is not accepted, the Conditional Commitment may be withdrawn and funds may be deobligated. Likewise, if the Conditional Commitment expires, funds may be deobligated.
(b) If certain conditions of the Conditional Commitment cannot be met, the lender and borrower may request changes to the Conditional Commitment. Within the requirements of the applicable regulations and prudent lending practices, the Agency may negotiate with the lender and the borrower regarding any proposed changes to the Conditional Commitment. Any changes to the Conditional Commitment must be documented by written amendment to the Conditional Commitment.
(c) The borrower must comply with all Federal requirements then in effect for receiving Federal assistance.
§ 4279.174
Transfer of lenders.
(a) The Agency may approve the substitution of a new eligible lender in place of a former lender who has been issued and has accepted an outstanding Conditional Commitment when the Loan Note Guarantee has not yet been issued, provided that there are no changes in the borrower's ownership or control, loan purposes, or scope of project, and the loan terms and conditions in the Conditional Commitment and the loan agreement remain the same. Any request for a transfer of lender must be submitted in writing by the current lender, the proposed lender, and the borrower. The original lender must state the reason(s) it no longer desires to be the lender for the project.
(b) Unless the new lender is already an approved lender, the Agency will analyze the new lender's servicing capability, eligibility, and experience prior to approving the substitution. The substituted lender must execute a new part B of Form 4279-1, “Application for Loan Guarantee;” Form RD 4279-4, “Lender's Agreement” (unless a valid Lender's Agreement with the Agency already exists); and complete a new lender's analysis in accordance with § 4279.131. The new lender may also be required to provide other updated application items outlined in § 4279.161(b).
§§ 4279.175-4279.179
[Reserved]
§ 4279.180
Changes in borrower.
Any changes in borrower ownership or organization prior to the issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee must meet the eligibility requirements of the program and be approved by the Agency.
§ 4279.181
Conditions precedent to issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee.
(a) The lender must not close the loan until all conditions of the Conditional Commitment are met. When loan closing plans are established, the lender must notify the Agency. Coincident with, or immediately after loan closing, the lender must provide the following to the Agency:
(1) An executed Form RD 4279-4, unless a valid Lender's Agreement exists that was issued after August 2, 2016;
(2) Form RD 1980-19 and appropriate guarantee fee;
(3) Copy of the executed promissory note(s);
(4) Copy of the executed loan agreement;
(5) Copy of the executed settlement statement;
(6) Original, executed Forms RD 4279-14, as required;
(7) Any other documents required to comply with applicable law or required by the Conditional Commitment.
(8) Borrower's loan closing balance sheet, supporting paragraph (a)(9)(i) of the lender certification, demonstrating
required tangible balance sheet equity; and
(9) The lender's certification to each of the following certifications:
(i) The capital/equity requirement was determined, based on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP, and met, as of the date the guaranteed loan was closed, giving effect to the entirety of the loan in the calculation, whether or not the loan itself is fully advanced.
(ii) All requirements of the Conditional Commitment have been met.
(iii) No major changes have been made in the lender's loan conditions and requirements since the issuance of the Conditional Commitment, unless such changes have been approved by the Agency in writing.
(iv) There is a reasonable prospect that the guaranteed loan and other project debt will be repaid on time and in full (including interest) from project cash flow according to the terms proposed in the application for loan guarantee.
(v) All planned property acquisition has been or will be completed, all development has been or will be substantially completed in accordance with plans and specifications, conforms with applicable Federal, State, and local codes, and costs have not exceeded the amount approved by the lender and the Agency.
(vi) The borrower has marketable title to the collateral then owned by the borrower, subject to the instrument securing the loan to be guaranteed and to any other exceptions approved in writing by the Agency.
(vii) The loan has been properly closed, and the required security instruments have been properly executed or will be obtained on any acquired property that cannot be covered initially under State law.
(viii) Lien priorities are consistent with the requirements of the Conditional Commitment. No claims or liens of laborers, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment, materialmen, or other parties have been filed against the collateral, and no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the collateral.
(ix) When required, personal and/or corporate guarantees have been obtained in accordance with § 4279.132.
(x) The loan proceeds have been or will be disbursed for purposes and in amounts consistent with the Conditional Commitment (or Agency-approved amendment thereof) and the application submitted to the Agency. When applicable, the entire amount of the loan for working capital has been disbursed to the borrower, except in cases where the Agency has approved disbursement over an extended period of time and funds are escrowed so that the settlement statement reflects the full amount to be disbursed.
(xi) All truth-in-lending and equal credit opportunity requirements have been met.
(xii) There has been neither any material adverse change in the borrower's financial condition nor any other material adverse change in the borrower, for any reason, during the period of time from the Agency's issuance of the Conditional Commitment to the issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee regardless of the cause or causes of the change and whether or not the change or causes of the change were within the lender's or borrower's control. The lender must address any assumptions or reservations in the requirement and must address all adverse changes of the borrower, any parent, affiliate, or subsidiary of the borrower, and guarantors.
(xiii) Neither the lender nor any of the lender's officers has an ownership interest in the borrower or is an officer or director of the borrower, and neither the borrower nor its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners have more than a 5 percent ownership interest in the lender.
(xiv) The loan agreement includes all measures identified in the Agency's environmental impact analysis for this proposal with which the borrower must comply for the purpose of avoiding or reducing adverse environmental impacts of the project's construction or operation.
(xv) If required, hazard, flood, liability, workers compensation, and life insurance are in effect.
(b) The Agency may, at its discretion, request copies of additional loan documents for its file.
(c) When the Agency is satisfied that all conditions for the guarantee have been met, the Agency will issue the Loan Note Guarantee and the following documents, as appropriate.
(1)
Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
In the event the lender uses the single note option and assigns the guaranteed portion of the loan to a holder, the lender, holder, and the Agency will execute Form RD 4279-6 in accordance with § 4279.75(a); and
(2)
Certificate of Incumbency.
If requested by the lender, the Agency will provide the lender with a certification on Form RD 4279-7, “Certificate of Incumbency and Signature,” of the signature and title of the Agency official who signs the Loan Note Guarantee, Lender's Agreement, and Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
§§ 4279.182-4279.186
[Reserved]
§ 4279.187
Refusal to execute Loan Note Guarantee.
If the Agency determines that it cannot execute the Loan Note Guarantee, the Agency will promptly inform the lender of the reasons and give the lender a reasonable period within which to satisfy the objections. If the lender satisfies the objections within the time allowed, the Agency will issue the Loan Note Guarantee. If the lender requests additional time in writing and within the period allowed, the Agency may grant the request.
§§ 4279.188-4279.189
[Reserved]
§ 4279.190
Business and Industry national COVID-19 Public Health Emergency Loans.
(a)
Introduction.
This section contains regulations for the Business and Industry National COVID-19 Public Health Emergency loan program (B
I CARES Act Program Loans). The purpose of the program is to provide loan guarantees under the authority of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) (Pub. L. 116-136). These B
I CARES Act Program Loans cover costs to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the coronavirus limited to the amount necessary to address the borrower's financial needs related to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency. Consistent with the purposes of the CARES Act, the Agency has determined that the most effective use of these program funds is to support the cost of guaranteed loans to rural businesses to respond to the coronavirus. No B
I CARES Act Program Loan guarantee will be approved after September 30, 2021. All provisions of subparts A and B of this part and subpart B of part 4287 of this chapter apply to B
I CARES Act Program Loans, except as provided in this section. All forms used in connection with a B
I CARES Act Program Loan will be those used with other Business and Industry (B
I) loans, except as provided in this section.
(b)
Eligible borrowers.
Section 4279.108 of this subpart applies to B
I CARES Act Program Loans. In addition, borrowers must have been in operation on February 15, 2020.
(c)
Eligible use of funds.
(1)
Purpose.
The purpose of any B
I CARES Act Program Loan must be to cover costs to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the coronavirus pandemic, limited to the amount necessary to address the borrower's financial needs related to the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. B
I CARES Act Program Loans should not exceed the amount needed to overcome the financial distress or related challenges caused by the COVID-19 Public Health Emergency.
(2)
Use of loan proceeds.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.113, B
I CARES Act Program guaranteed loans will be limited to loans for working capital loan purposes in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Loan proceeds may be used only to support facilities and business operations in rural areas and the Borrower must have been in operation on February 15, 2020. Loan proceeds must be disbursed through multiple draws on an as-needed monthly basis. Loan proceeds issued in full at loan closing must be evidenced by documented need provided by the lender and with concurrence of the Agency.
(3)
Eligible working capital uses.
Eligible working capital uses of B
I CARES
Act Program Loan funds are limited to:
(i) Wages, salaries, sales commissions to employees, group healthcare benefits, and other employee benefits; owner's wages and salaries may be considered if these costs are verifiable and constitute historical working capital costs;
(ii) Administrative expenses and administrative service contracts;
(iii) Property insurance, hazard insurance, and other business insurance;
(iv) Principal and interest payments on outstanding debt excluding owner/stockholder debt and related-party debts; payments may include existing Business
Industry loan payments to bring loans current as loan payments to a creditor are a working capital expense;
(v) Rent, payments on leases, and routine maintenance;
(vi) Utilities;
(vii) Inventory, feed, seed, fertilizer and chemicals, livestock (excluding livestock for breeding) and supplies;
(viii) Marketing, shipping, and other expenses incurred through normal business operations or such additional expenses due to challenges directly related to the national COVID-19 Public Health Emergency;
(ix) Taxes; and
(x) Loan costs and essential loan-related expenses.
(4)
Ineligible purposes.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.113, the following purposes are ineligible for B
I CARES Act Program guaranteed loans:
(i) Purchase and development of land, buildings, and associated infrastructure for commercial or industrial properties, including expansion or modernization;
(ii) Business acquisitions;
(iii) Leasehold improvements;
(iv) Constructing or equipping facilities;
(v) Purchase of machinery and equipment; and
(vi) Debt refinancing unless such debt refinancing is for debts incurred subsequent to February 15, 2020 for eligible purposes listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(5)
Agricultural production.
The provisions of § 4279.113(q) do not apply to B
I CARES Act Program Loans. Loans for working capital to support agricultural production, including independent agricultural production, is an eligible use of funds when the applicant's loan request exceeds the maximum loan available through FSA guaranteed loan programs or the applicant's request is otherwise ineligible for FSA loans. The Agency should verify ineligibility for FSA loan programs. Agricultural producers must be located in a rural area as defined in 7 CFR 4279.108(c) unless they meet the requirements provided for under 7 CFR 4279.113(y).
(d)
Loan amount limits.
(1) The provisions of § 4279.119(a) do not apply to B
I CARES Act Program Loans. The total amount of B
I and B
I CARES Act Program Loans to one borrower (including the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions, the outstanding principal and interest balance of any existing B
I guaranteed loans, and the new loan request) cannot exceed $25 million. There is no minimum threshold for B
I CARES Act Program loans.
(2) The amount of the B
I CARES Act Program Loan shall be based on a cash flow analysis and must not be greater than the amount needed to address challenges caused by the COVID-19 emergency, including those related to inventory and production costs, so that the business is reestablished on a successful basis. Losses and business operating expenses that were adequately paid by insurance or by loans or grants from other sources will not be covered by B
I CARES Act Program Loans. The B
I CARES Act Program Loans may be used to supplement insurance payments or assistance from other sources when the insurance coverage or other assistance is insufficient. The amount of the B
I CARES Act Program loan will be reduced by any SBA Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans received by the borrower.
(3) The maximum loan amount of the B
I CARES Act Program Loan for working capital purposes may not exceed 12 times the borrower's total average monthly costs of eligible working capital loan purposes less the total amount of covered loans received under the provisions of sections 1102 and
1110(a)(2) of the CARES Act and other Federal emergency assistance received. Annual tax returns may be utilized to calculate the maximum loan amount under the B
I CARES Act Program. It is the Agency's preference to review the last three full years of operations to calculate average working capital expenses for the borrower. If three years of financial information is not available, then actual working capital expenses for the business duration may be evaluated. Borrowers, who have not been in operation for a full year may estimate an average monthly cost of eligible working capital based on available historical months as long as they were in operation as of February 15, 2020.
(4) Borrowers receiving B
I CARES Act Program Loans in an amount less than the maximum loan amount in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section, may apply for subsequent loans under this section up to an accumulative amount of B
I CARES Act Program loans not to exceed the maximum loan amount.
(e)
Percentage of guarantee.
The provisions of § 4279.119(b) do not apply to B
I CARES Act Program Loans. The percentage of guarantee is 90 percent.
(f)
Guarantee fee.
The provisions of § 4279.120(a) do not apply to B
I CARES Act Program Loans. The guarantee fee for the B
I CARES Act Program Loans shall be two (2) percent. The guarantee fee is paid at the time the Loan Note Guarantee is issued and may be included as an eligible use of guaranteed loan proceeds. The amount of the guarantee fee is determined by multiplying the total loan amount by the guarantee fee rate by the percentage of guarantee.
(g)
Annual renewal fee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.120(b), the annual renewal fee for B
I CARES Act Program Loans shall be one half of one (0.5) percent (50 basis points.)
(h)
Loan terms.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.126, the maximum allowable repayment term of loans for working capital purposes is 10 years. Loan repayment may defer principal payments or principal and interest payments for a period up to 12 months from loan closing and may extend deferral of principal payments up to a total of three years with a maximum repayment term of 10 years from the date of loan closing. B
I CARES Act Program Loans must be paid in full since the B
I CARES Act Program provides no loan forgiveness.
(i)
Credit quality.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.131(a), the lender's evaluation of the borrower's repayment ability shall include an emphasis on the borrower's successful financial history and on the borrower's 2019 financial performance, present condition, and future viability.
(j)
Collateral.
B
I CARES Act Program loans must be adequately secured. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.131(b), loan-to-value discounting by the lender is not required for B
I CARES Act Program Loans for working capital purposes. The value of the collateral (fair market value) must be equal to or greater than the loan amount.
(k)
Capital/equity.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.131(d), the business must meet one of the following requirements at loan closing:
(1) A minimum of 10 percent balance sheet equity or tangible balance sheet equity (including subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement); or a maximum debt-to-balance sheet equity ratio of 9 to 1.
(2) A Borrower investment of equity or other funds into the project equal to 10 percent or more of total eligible project costs, (such investment may include grants or subordinated debt when subject to a standstill agreement). Additional sources of matching funds may be derived from other loan funds; however, such funds must be in the form of cash. In-kind contributions are not eligible to meet equity requirements; or
(3) The balance sheet equity or tangible balance sheet equity includes owner-contributed capital of 10 percent or more of total fixed assets (net total fixed assets plus depreciation).
(l)
Appraisals.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.144, appraisals of real estate and chattel collateral are required when the amount of the loan exceeds $1,000,000, unless the chattel is newly acquired equipment and the value is supported by a bill of sale. The Agency will accept appraisals older than 1 year but completed within 2
years of the application date. Lenders may provide an updated appraisal in lieu of a new complete appraisal when the original appraisal is more than 2 years old. All appraisals of real estate must be compliant with Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices (USPAP) requirements and reflect the current market value of the collateral as required by § 4279.144(a). To protect lenders, appraisers and Agency staff during the COVID-19 pandemic, an interior or on-site inspection of the collateral is not required if an assumption can be made by the appraiser on a reasonable basis or is based on previous inspections and condition reports completed by the lender or third party for the collateral.
(m)
Filing preapplications and applications.
Applications are to be received and processed in the State Office in the State where the business is located. Funds will be maintained in a National Office Reserve account. The Agency will consider applications in the order they are received by the Agency on a first come, first served basis. Priority scoring will not be needed initially, however towards the end of the funding period the Agency will need to assign priority points for the limited remaining funds and for this purpose the Agency will score and compare an application to other pending applications that are competing for funding in accordance with 7 CFR 4279.166.
(1) B
I CARES Act Program Loan borrowers with existing B
I loans do not need to resubmit their historical financial statements that have been previously submitted through routine loan servicing actions.
(2) Loans for working capital are classified as categorical exclusions for purposes of the Agency's environmental review policies and procedures in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. These actions normally do not require an applicant to submit environmental documentation with the application. However, based on the review of the project description, the Agency may request additional environmental documentation from the applicant at any time, specifically if the Agency determines that extraordinary circumstances may exist.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 4279.161(b), a draft loan agreement is not required, a business plan or feasibility study is not required, and lenders may substitute and rely on the borrower's tax returns when financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP are not available from the borrower. Agricultural producers' financial records must meet the industry's standard accounting practices.
(4) A lender or borrower may combine applications for a B
I CARES Act Program loan for working capital with an application for B
I appropriated fiscal year funds. State Offices are allowed to use the same lender's analysis for each request. The existing Conditional Commitment template can be used for B
I CARES Act Program loans and deletion of certain provisions that do not impact the borrower or credit quality can be removed. Business Program Directors are encouraged to contact the National Office Program Processing Division with any questions regarding borrower eligibility, use of B
I loan proceeds, calculations of the loan amount or borrower equity, and any other questions related to a specific project. The provisions of this section do not apply to applications for B
I appropriated fiscal year funds.
[85 FR 31040, May 22, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 82228, Nov. 24, 2023; 88 FR 86566, Dec. 14, 2023]
§§ 4279.191-4279.199
[Reserved]
§ 4279.200
OMB control number.
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, the information collection requirements contained in this rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under OMB Control Number 0570-0069 for OMB approval.

# Subpart C—Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans

# Source:
80 FR 36425, June 24, 2015, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 4279.201
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of the Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Program is to assist in the development of new and emerging technologies for the development of Advanced Biofuels, Renewable Chemicals, and Biobased Product Manufacturing. This is achieved through guarantees for loans made to fund the development, construction, and Retrofitting of Commercial-Scale Biorefineries using Eligible Technology and of Biobased Product Manufacturing facilities that use Technologically New Commercial-Scale processing and manufacturing equipment and required facilities to convert Renewable Chemicals and other biobased outputs of Biorefineries into end-user products on a Commercial Scale.
(a) This subpart and subpart D of part 4287 of this chapter contain the regulations for this Program.
(b) The Lender is responsible for ascertaining that all requirements for making, securing, servicing, and collecting the loan are complied with.
(c) Whether specifically stated or not, whenever Agency approval is required, it must be in writing.
(d) Copies of all forms, regulations, and instructions referenced in this subpart are available in any Agency office and from the USDA Rural Development Web site at
http://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/biorefinery-assistance-program
. Whenever a form is designated in this subpart, it is initially capitalized and its reference includes predecessor and successor forms, if applicable.
§ 4279.202
Definitions and abbreviations.
Terms used in this subpart are defined in this section. Terms used in this subpart that have the same meaning as the terms defined in this section have been capitalized in this subpart.
Administrator.
The Administrator of Rural Business-Cooperative Service within the Rural Development mission area of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Advanced biofuel.
Fuel derived from Renewable Biomass, other than corn kernel starch, to include:
(1) Biofuel derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin;
(2) Biofuel derived from sugar and starch (other than ethanol derived from corn kernel starch);
(3) Biofuel derived from waste material, including crop residue, other vegetative waste material, animal waste, food waste, and yard waste;
(4) Diesel-equivalent fuel derived from Renewable Biomass, including vegetable oil and animal fat;
(5) Biogas (including landfill gas and sewage waste treatment gas) produced through the conversion of organic matter from Renewable Biomass;
(6) Butanol or other alcohols produced through the conversion of organic matter from Renewable Biomass; and
(7) Other fuel derived from cellulosic biomass.
Affiliate.
An entity that is related to another entity by owning shares or having an interest in the entity, by common ownership, or by any means of control.
Agency.
The Rural Business-Cooperative Service or successor Agency assigned by the Secretary of Agriculture to administer the Program. References to the National or State Office should be read as prefaced by “Agency” or “Rural Development” as applicable.
Agricultural producer.
An individual or entity directly engaged in the production of agricultural products, including crops (including farming); livestock (including ranching); forestry products; hydroponics; nursery stock; or aquaculture, whereby 50 percent or greater of their gross income is derived from the operations.
Annual renewal fee.
A fee that is paid once a year by the Lender and is required to maintain the enforceability of the Loan Note Guarantee.
Arm's length transaction.
A transaction between ready, willing, and able disinterested parties that are not affiliated with or related to each other and have no security, monetary, or stockholder interest in each other.
Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
Form RD 4279-6, “Assignment Guarantee Agreement,” is the signed agreement between the Agency, the Lender, and the Holder containing the terms and conditions of an assignment of a
guaranteed portion of a loan, using the single Promissory Note system.
Association of Agricultural Producers.
An organization that represents Agricultural Producers and whose mission includes working on behalf of such producers and the majority of whose membership and board of directors is comprised of Agricultural Producers.
BAP.
Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Program.
Biobased product.
A product determined by the Secretary to be a commercial or industrial product (other than food or feed) that is either:
(1) Composed, in whole or in significant part, of biological products, including renewable domestic agricultural materials and forestry materials; or
(2) An intermediate ingredient or feedstock.
Biobased product manufacturing.
The use of Technologically New Commercial-Scale processing and manufacturing equipment and required facilities to convert Renewable Chemicals and other biobased outputs of Biorefineries into end-user products on a Commercial Scale.
Biofuel.
A fuel derived from Renewable Biomass.
Biogas.
Renewable Biomass converted to gaseous fuel.
Biorefinery.
A facility (including equipment and processes) that converts Renewable biomass or an intermediate ingredient or feedstock of Renewable biomass into any one or more, or a combination, of Biofuels, Renewable chemicals or Biobased products, and may produce electricity.
Bond.
A form of debt security in which the authorized issuer (Borrower) owes the Bond holder (Lender) a debt and is obligated to repay the principal and Interest (coupon) at a later date(s) (maturity). An explanation of the type of Bond and other Bond stipulations must be attached to the Bond issuance.
Borrower.
The Person that borrows, or seeks to borrow, money from the Lender, including any party liable for the loan except for guarantors.
Byproduct.
An incidental or secondary product generated under normal operations of the proposed Project that can be reasonably measured and monitored other than: Advanced Biofuel, Program-eligible Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals, and Program-eligible end-user products produced by Biobased Product Manufacturing facilities. Byproducts may or may not have a readily identifiable commercial use or value.
Calendar quarter.
Four three-month periods in each calendar year as follows:
(1) Quarter 1 begins on January 1 and ends on March 31;
(2) Quarter 2 begins on April 1 and ends on June 30;
(3) Quarter 3 begins on July 1 and ends on September 30; and
(4) Quarter 4 begins on October 1 and ends on December 31.
Collateral.
The asset(s) pledged by the Borrower to secure the loan.
Commercial-scale (commercial scale).
An operation is considered to be a Commercial-Scale operation if it demonstrates that its sole or chief emphasis is on salability and profit and:
(1) Its revenue will be sufficient to recover the full cost of the Project over its expected life and result in an anticipated annual rate of return sufficient to encourage investors or Lenders to provide funding for the Project;
(2) It will be able to operate profitably without public and private sector subsidies upon completion of construction (volumetric excise tax is not included as a subsidy);
(3) Contracts for feedstock are adequate to address proposed off-take; and
(4) It has the ability to achieve market entry, suitable infrastructure to transport product to its market is available, and the technology and related products are generally competitive in the market.
Conditional Commitment.
Form RD 4279-3, “Conditional Commitment,” is the Agency's notice to the Lender that the loan guarantee it has requested is approved subject to the completion of all conditions and requirements set forth by the Agency and outlined in the attachment to the Conditional Commitment.
Conflict of interest.
A situation in which a Person has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that prevents the Person from acting impartially.
Default.
The condition that exists when a Borrower is not in compliance with the Promissory Note, the Loan Agreement, security documents, or other documents evidencing the loan. Default could be a monetary or non-monetary Default.
Deficiency judgment.
A monetary judgment rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction after foreclosure and liquidation of all Collateral securing the loan.
Delinquency.
A loan for which a scheduled loan payment is more than 30 days past due and cannot be cured within 30 days.
Eligible project costs.
Those expenses approved by the Agency for the Project as set forth in § 4279.210(d) and do not include the costs set forth in § 4279.210(e).
Eligible technology.
The term “Eligible technology” means, as determined by the Secretary:
(1) A technology that is being adopted in a viable Commercial-scale operation of a Biorefinery that produces any one or more, or a combination, of an Advanced biofuel; a Renewable chemical; or a Biobased product; and
(2) A technology not described in paragraph (1) of this definition that has been demonstrated to have technical and economic potential for commercial application in a Biorefinery that produces any one or more, or a combination, of an Advanced biofuel, a Renewable chemical or a Biobased product.
Fair market value.
The price that could reasonably be expected for an asset in an Arm's-Length Transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller under ordinary economic and business conditions.
Farm cooperative.
A business owned and controlled by Agricultural Producers that is incorporated, or otherwise recognized by the State in which it operates, as a cooperatively-operated business.
Farmer Cooperative Organization.
An organization whose membership is composed of Farm Cooperatives.
Feasibility study.
An analysis by an independent qualified consultant or consultants of the economic, market, technical, financial, and management feasibility of a proposed Project or business in terms of its expectation for success.
Federal debt.
Debt owed to the Federal government that is subject to collection under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, 31 U.S.C. 3701
et seq.
Once the Agency determines a debt is Federal Debt and provides notice to the Lender, that Federal Debt is excluded from Future Recovery.
Future recovery.
Funds anticipated to be collected by the Lender after a final loss claim is processed.
Good cause.
A justification representing a reasonable approach given:
(1) The reasonably available alternatives;
(2) All known relevant factors;
(3) Program requirements; and
(4) The best interests of the government. Good cause must be approved by the Agency. Without prior approval by the Agency, alternatives that require the Agency to increase its guarantee, in either the Conditional Commitment or Loan Note Guarantee (including an increase of its subsidy costs under the Credit Reform Act of 1990), or provide additional assistance, will not be considered reasonable available alternatives under paragraph (1) of this definition or in the best interests of the government under paragraph (4) of this definition.
Grossly negligent loan origination.
A serious carelessness in originating the loan which is so great as to appear to be conscious. The term includes not only the concept of a failure to act, but also not acting in a timely manner.
Grossly negligent loan servicing.
A serious carelessness in servicing the loan which is so great as to appear to be conscious. The term includes not only the concept of a failure to act, but also not acting in a timely manner.
Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss.
Form RD 449-30, “Guaranteed Loan Report of Loss,” used by Lenders when reporting a financial loss under an Agency guarantee.
Holder.
A Person, other than the Lender, who owns all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan with no servicing responsibilities.
Immediate family(ies).
Individuals who live in the same household or who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, such as a spouse, domestic
partner, parent, child, sibling, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, nephew, or cousin.
Indian tribe.
This term has the meaning as defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b.
In-house expenses.
Expenses associated with activities that are routinely the responsibility of a Lender's internal staff or its agents. In-house expenses include, but are not limited to, employees' salaries, staff lawyers, travel, and overhead.
Institution of higher education.
This term has the meaning as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1002(a).
Interest.
A fee paid by a Borrower to a Lender as a form of compensation for the use of money. When money is borrowed, Interest is typically paid as a fee over a certain period of time (typically months or years) to the Lender as percentage of the principal amount owed. The term Interest does not include Default or penalty Interest or late payment fees or charges.
Interest Termination Date.
The date on which no further interest will be payable under the Loan Note Guarantee.
(1) If the Lender owns all or a portion of the guaranteed interest in the guaranteed loan or makes a Protective Advance, then the Loan Note Guarantee will not cover Interest to the Lender accruing after 90 days from the most recent Delinquency effective date as reported by the Lender.
(2) If the guaranteed loan has a Holder(s), the Lender, or the Agency, at its sole discretion, will issue an interest termination letter to the Holder(s) establishing the termination date for Interest accrual. The Loan Note Guarantee will not cover Interest to the Holder(s) accruing after the greater of:
(i) 90 days from the date of the most recent Delinquency effective date as reported by the Lender or
(ii) 30 days from the date of the interest termination letter.
Lender.
The entity approved, or seeking to be approved, by the Agency to make, service, and collect the Agency guaranteed loan that is subject to this subpart.
Lender's Agreement.
Form RD 4279-4, “Lender's Agreement,” or predecessor form, between the Agency and the Lender setting forth the Lender's loan responsibilities.
Liquidation expenses.
Costs directly associated with the liquidation of Collateral, including preparing Collateral for sale (
e.g.,
repairs and transport) and conducting the sale (
e.g.,
advertising, public notices, auctioneer expenses, and foreclosure fees). Liquidation Expenses do not include In-House Expenses. Legal/attorney fees are considered Liquidation Expenses provided that the fees are reasonable, as determined by the Agency, and cover legal issues pertaining to the liquidation that could not be properly handled by the Lender and its in-house counsel.
Loan agreement.
The agreement between the Borrower and Lender containing the terms and conditions of the loan and the responsibilities of the Borrower and Lender.
Loan classification.
The process by which loans are examined and categorized by degree of potential loss in the event of Default.
Loan Note Guarantee.
Form RD 4279-5, “Loan Note Guarantee,” or predecessor form, issued and executed by the Agency containing the terms and conditions of the guarantee.
Loan packager.
A Person, other than the applicant Borrower or Lender, that prepares a loan application package.
Loan service provider.
A Person, other than the Lender of record, that provides loan servicing activities to the Lender.
Local government.
A county, municipality, town, township, village, or other unit of general government below the State level, or Indian Tribe governments.
Local owner.
An individual who owns any portion of an eligible Biorefinery and whose primary residence is located within a certain distance from the Biorefinery as specified by the Agency in a Notice published in the
Federal Register
.
Market value.
The amount for which a property will sell for its highest and best use at a voluntary sale in an Arm's Length Transaction.
Material adverse change.
Any change in circumstance associated with a guaranteed loan, including the Borrower's financial condition or Collateral that could be reasonably expected to jeopardize loan performance.
NAD.
National Appeals Division, or successor agency, in the United States Department of Agriculture.
Negligent Loan Origination.
The failure to perform those actions which a reasonably prudent lender would perform in originating its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The term includes not only the concept of a failure to act but also acting in a manner contrary to the manner in which a reasonably prudent lender would act.
Negligent Loan Servicing.
The failure to perform those services which a reasonably prudent lender would perform in servicing (including liquidation of) its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The term includes not only the concept of a failure to act, but also not acting in a timely manner, or acting in a manner contrary to the manner in which a reasonably prudent lender would act.
Off-take agreement.
The terms and conditions governing the sale and transportation of Biofuels, Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals, Biobased Product Manufacturing end-user products, and electricity produced by the Borrower to another party.
Parity.
A lien position whereby two or more Lenders share a security interest of equal priority in Collateral.
Participate.
Sale of an interest in a loan by the lead Lender to one or more Lenders wherein the lead Lender retains the Promissory Note, Collateral securing the Promissory Note, and all responsibility for managing and servicing the loan. Participants are dependent upon the lead Lender for protection of their interests in the loan.
Person.
An individual or entity.
Program.
Biorefinery Renewable Chemical, and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Program often abbreviated as BAP.
Project.
The facility or portion of a facility receiving funding under this subpart.
Pro rata.
On a proportional basis.
Promissory note.
Evidence of debt with stipulated repayment terms. “Note” or “Promissory Note” shall also be construed to include “Bond” or other evidence of debt, where appropriate.
Protective advance.
An advance made by the Lender for the purpose of preserving and protecting the Collateral where the Borrower has failed to, and will not or cannot, meet its obligations to protect or preserve Collateral. Protective advances include, but are not limited to, advances affecting the Collateral made for property taxes, rent, hazard and flood insurance premiums, and annual assessments. Legal/attorney fees are not a Protective Advance. Holders do not have an interest in Protective Advances.
Public body.
A municipality, county, or other political subdivision of a State; a special purpose district; or an Indian Tribe on a Federal or State reservation or other Federally-recognized Indian Tribe; or an organization controlled by any of the above. A Local Government would also be a Public Body.
Renewable biomass.
(1) Materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from National Forest System land or public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)) that:
(i) Are byproducts of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels; to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; or to restore ecosystem health;
(ii) Would not otherwise be used for higher-value products; and
(iii) Are harvested in accordance with applicable law and land management plans and the requirements for old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction of paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (e) of section 102 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6512) and large-tree retention of subsection (f) of section 102; or
(2) Any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian Tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including:
(i) Renewable plant material, including feed grains; other agricultural commodities; other plants and trees; and algae; and
(ii) Waste material, including crop residue; other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues); animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure); and food waste and yard waste.
Renewable chemical.
A monomer, polymer, plastic, formulated product, or chemical substance produced from Renewable Biomass.
Retrofitting.
The modification of a building or equipment to incorporate functions not included in the original design.
Rural Development.
The mission area of USDA that is comprised of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service and is under the policy direction and operational oversight of the Under Secretary for Rural Development.
Rural or rural area.
As described in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(A), (D), (H) and (I).
Secretary.
The Secretary of the Department of the Agriculture.
Semi-work scale.
A facility operating on a limited scale to provide final tests of a product or process.
Spreadsheet.
A table containing data from a series of financial statements of a business over a period of time. Financial statement analysis normally contains Spreadsheets for balance sheet and income statement items and includes a cash flow analysis and commonly used ratios. The Spreadsheets enable a reviewer to easily scan the data, spot trends, and make comparisons.
State.
Any of the 50 States of the U.S., the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Subordination.
The reduction of the Lender's lien priority on certain assets pledged to secure payment of the guaranteed loan to a position junior to, or on Parity with, the lien position of another loan in order for the Borrower to obtain additional financing, not guaranteed by the Agency, from the Lender or a third party.
Technologically New.
New or significantly improved equipment, process or production method to deliver a product, or adoption of equipment, process or production method to deliver a new or significantly improved product, of which the first Commercial-Scale use in the United States is within the last five years and is used in not more than three Commercial-Scale facilities in the United States.
Total project costs.
The sum of all costs associated with a completed Project.
Transfer and assumption.
The conveyance by a Borrower to an assuming Borrower of the assets, Collateral, and liabilities of the loan in return for the assuming Borrower's binding promise to pay the outstanding loan debt approved by the Agency.
USDA Lender Interactive Network Connection (LINC).
The portal Web site currently at
https://usdalinc.sc.egov.usda.gov/
used by Lenders to update loan data in the Agency's Guaranteed Loan System. Current capabilities include loan closing and status reporting.
Well capitalized.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) requirements used to determine if a lending institution has enough capital on hand to withstand negative effects in the market, and which the Agency uses to determine Lender eligibility. The criteria are specified in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and are currently at 12 CFR 325.103, or subsequent regulation.
Working capital.
Current assets available to support a business's operations. Working Capital is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
[80 FR 36425, June 24, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 29595, May 18, 2020; 87 FR 38644, June 29, 2022]
§ 4279.203
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Agriculture, make an exception, on a case-by-case basis, to any requirement or provision of this subpart that is not inconsistent with any authorizing statute or applicable law, if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Federal government's interest.
§ 4279.204
Appeals.
Borrowers, Lenders, and Holders have appeal or review rights for adverse Agency decisions made under this subpart. Adverse programmatic decisions based on clear and objective statutory or regulatory requirements are not appealable; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD). The Borrower, Lender, and Holder can appeal any Agency decision that directly and adversely impacts them. For an adverse decision that impacts the Borrower, the Lender and Borrower must jointly execute a written request for appeal for an alleged adverse decision made by the Agency. An adverse decision that only impacts the Lender may be appealed by the Lender only. An adverse decision that only impacts the Holder may be appealed by the Holder only. A decision by a Lender adverse to the interest of the Borrower is not a decision by the Agency, whether or not concurred in by the Agency. Appeals will be conducted by NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§ 4279.205
Prohibition under Agency programs.
(a) No loan guaranteed by the Agency under this subpart will be conditioned on any requirement that the recipient(s) of such assistance accept or receive electric service from any particular utility, supplier, or cooperative.
(b) No loan guaranteed by the Agency may be made with the proceeds of any obligation the Interest on which is excludable from income under 26 U.S.C. 103 or a successor statute. Funds generated through the issuance of tax-exempt obligations may neither be used to purchase the guaranteed portion of any Agency guaranteed loan nor may an Agency guaranteed loan serve as Collateral for a tax-exempt issue. The Agency may guarantee a loan for a Project which involves tax-exempt financing only when the guaranteed loan funds are used to finance a part of the Project that is separate and distinct from the part which is financed by the tax-exempt obligation, and the guaranteed loan has at least a Parity security position with the tax-exempt obligation.
(c) The Agency may not issue a guarantee for a loan where there may be, directly or indirectly, a Conflict of Interest or an appearance of a Conflict of Interest involving any action by the Agency.
(d) The Agency may not guarantee lease payments.
(e) The Agency may not guarantee loans made by other Federal agencies.
§ 4279.206
Agency representation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart and 7 CFR part 4287, subpart D, the Agency reserves the right to be represented by the U.S. Department of Justice in any litigation where the Agency is named as a party.
§ 4279.207
[Reserved]

# Eligibility Requirements
§ 4279.208
Lender eligibility requirements.
(a) An eligible Lender is any Federal or State chartered bank, Farm Credit Bank, other Farm Credit System institution with direct lending authority, and Bank for Cooperatives. These entities must be subject to credit examination and supervision by either an agency of the United States or a State. Credit unions subject to credit examination and supervision by either the National Credit Union Administration or a State agency are eligible Lenders. The National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance Corporation is also an eligible Lender. Savings and loan associations, mortgage companies, insurance companies, and other lenders not meeting the above criteria are not eligible.
(b) The Lender must demonstrate that it meets the FDIC definition of Well Capitalized at the time of application and at time of issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee. This information may be identified in FDIC Call Reports and Thrift Financial Reports. If the information is not identified in the Call Reports or Thrift Financial Reports, the Lender will be required to calculate its levels and provide them to the Agency.
(c) The Lender must not be debarred or suspended by the Federal government.
(d) If the Lender is under a cease-and-desist order, or similar constraint, from a Federal or State agency, the Lender must inform the Agency. The Agency will evaluate the Lender's eligibility on a case-by-case basis given the risk of loss posed by the cease-and-desist order or similar constraint, as applicable.
(e) The Agency will only approve loan guarantees for Lenders with adequate experience and expertise, from similar projects, to make, secure, service, and collect loans approved under this subpart.
§ 4279.209
Borrower eligibility requirements.
(a)
Eligible entities.
To be eligible, a Borrower must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Type of Borrower.
A Borrower must be an individual; an entity; an Indian Tribe; or a unit of State or Local Government, including a corporation; a Farm Cooperative; a Farmer Cooperative Organization; an Association of Agricultural Producers; a National Laboratory; an Institution of Higher Education; a rural electric cooperative; a public power entity; or a consortium of any of the above entities.
(2)
Legal authority and responsibility.
Each Borrower must have, or obtain before loan closing, the legal authority necessary to construct, operate, and maintain the proposed Project and services and to obtain, give security for, and repay the proposed loan.
(b)
Ineligible entities.
A Borrower will be considered ineligible for a guarantee if the Borrower, any owner with more than 20 percent ownership interest in the Borrower, or any owner with more than 3 percent ownership interest in the Borrower if there is no owner with more than 20 percent ownership interest in the Borrower:
(1) Has an outstanding judgment obtained by the U.S. in a Federal Court (other than U.S. Tax Court);
(2) Is delinquent on the payment of Federal income taxes;
(3) Is delinquent on a Federal Debt; or
(4) Is debarred or suspended from receiving Federal assistance.
§ 4279.210
Project eligibility requirements.
(a) The Project must be located in a State.
(b) The Project must be for either:
(1) The development, construction, and Retrofitting of Technologically New Commercial-Scale processing and manufacturing equipment and required facilities that will be used to convert Renewable Chemicals and other biobased outputs of Biorefineries into end-user products on a Commercial Scale; or
(2) The development, construction, or Retrofitting of a Commercial-Scale Biorefinery using Eligible Technology.
(c) The Borrower and other principals involved in the Project must make a significant equity investment in the Project in the form of cash contribution. Equity does not include loans to the Project. The Agency will evaluate the adequacy of equity in its credit evaluation in accordance with § 4279.215(b).
(d) Eligible Project Costs are only those costs associated with the items listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section, as long as the items are assets owned by the Borrower or expenses incurred by the Borrower and the items are an integral and necessary part of the Project, as determined by the Agency. A Project may consist of multiple facilities or components located at multiple locations.
(1) Purchase and installation of equipment (new, refurbished, or remanufactured), including an integrated demonstration unit if the integrated demonstration unit will be used by the Borrower in the Project after the Project is developed and in operation.
(2) New construction or Retrofitting of existing facilities including reasonable contingency reserves, land acquisition, site improvements and development, and associated costs such as surveys, title insurance, title fees, and recording or transfer fees.
(3) Permit and license fees and fees and charges for professional services. Professional services are those rendered by entities generally licensed or certified by States or accreditation associations, such as architects, engineers, accountants, attorneys, or appraisers, and those rendered by Loan
Packagers (excluding finders fees). The Borrower may pay fees for professional services needed for planning and developing a Project provided that the amounts are reasonable and customary in the area. Professional fees may be included as an eligible use of loan proceeds.
(4) Working Capital.
(5) Cost of necessary insurance and bonds.
(6) Cost of financing, including capitalized Interest during construction period, legal fees, transaction costs, and customary fees charged by the lender, excluding the guaranteed loan fee and annual renewal fees.
(7) Cash reserve accounts required by the Lender or Agency, such as a debt service reserve account.
(8) Any other item identified by the Agency in a notice published in the
Federal Register
.
(9) The Agency will consider refinancing only under either of the two conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Permanent financing used to refinance interim construction financing of the proposed Project only if the application for the guaranteed loan under this subpart was approved prior to closing the interim loan for the construction of the Project.
(ii) Refinancing that is no more than 20 percent of the loan for which the Agency is guaranteeing and the purpose of the refinance is to enable the Agency to establish a first lien position with respect to pre-existing Collateral subject to a pre-existing lien and the refinancing would be in the best financial interests of the Federal Government.
(10) A borrower is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this subpart to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
(e) Ineligible Project costs include:
(1) Distribution or payment to an individual owner, partner, stockholder, or beneficiary of the Borrower or a close relative of such an individual when such individual will retain any portion of the ownership of the Borrower;
(2) Any line of credit;
(3) Any equipment, processes, and related costs of such equipment used for processing corn kernel starch into biofuel, including as an incidental or secondary product; and
(4) Payment in excess of actual costs (such as profit, overhead, and indirect costs) incurred by the contractor or other service provider on a contract or agreement that has been entered into at less than an Arm's Length Transaction or with an appearance of or a potential for Conflict of Interest.
[80 FR 36425, June 24, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 57085, Sept. 15, 2020]
§§ 4279.211-4279.213
[Reserved]

# Lender Functions and Responsibilities
§ 4279.214
General functions and responsibilities.
(a) The Lender has the primary responsibility for loan origination and servicing. Any action or inaction on the part of the Agency does not relieve the Lender of its responsibilities to originate and service the loan guaranteed under this subpart. The Lender may contract for services and may rely on certain written materials (including, but not limited to, certifications, evaluations, appraisals, financial statements and other reports) to be provided by the Borrower or other qualified third parties (including, among others, one or more independent engineers, appraisers, accountants, consultants or other experts.) The Lender is ultimately responsible for underwriting, loan origination, loan servicing, and compliance with all Agency regulations.
(b) Agents and Persons are prohibited from acting as both Loan Packager and Loan Service Provider on the same guaranteed loan.
(c) All Lenders obtaining or requesting a Program loan guarantee are responsible for:
(1) Processing applications for guaranteed loans. The Lender is responsible for submitting a complete application for each guaranteed loan requested;
(2) Developing and maintaining adequately documented loan files, which
must be maintained for at least 3 years after the final loss has been paid;
(3) Recommending only loan proposals that are eligible and financially feasible;
(4) Properly closing the loan and obtaining valid evidence of debt and Collateral in accordance with sound lending practices prior to disbursing loan proceeds;
(5) Keeping an inventory accounting of all Collateral items and reconciling the inventory of all Collateral sold during loan servicing, including liquidation;
(6) Supervising construction;
(7) Distributing loan funds;
(8) Servicing guaranteed loans in a reasonable manner, including liquidation if necessary;
(9) Following Agency regulations and agreements;
(10) Obtaining Agency approvals or concurrence as required; and
(11) Reporting all Conflicts of Interest, or appearances thereof, to the Agency.
§ 4279.215
Credit evaluation.
(a) Lenders must analyze all credit factors associated with each proposed loan and apply its professional judgment to determine that the credit factors, considered in combination, to ensure loan repayment. The Lender must have an adequate underwriting process to ensure that loans are reviewed by someone other than the originating officer. The Agency will only guarantee loans that are financially sound and feasible with reasonable assurance of repayment.
(b) In its credit evaluation, the Agency will consider the following factors:
(1) The feasibility of the Project and Borrower and likelihood that the Project and Borrower will produce sufficient revenues to service the Project's debt obligations over the life of the loan guarantee and result in sufficient returns to investors;
(2) Project and Borrower debt structure and characteristics and debt repayment ability;
(3) Revenues of the Project and Borrower, strength and duration of off-take contracts and counterparty agreements, market demand and competitive position;
(4) Technical feasibility, demonstrated performance of the technology and readiness to commercialize the technology;
(5) Ownership structure of the Project and Borrower, strength of ownership and sponsors, commitment and amount of equity investment from ownership, sponsors and other equity investors;
(6) Operational management and experience;
(7) Complexity of construction/completion, terms of construction contracts, experience and financial strength of the construction contractor or engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) contractor;
(8) Availability and depth of resource/feedstock market, strength and duration of purchase agreements, and availability of substitutes;
(9) Contracts and intellectual property rights, and state and local regulations;
(10) Energy, infrastructure and environmental considerations;
(11) The extent to which Project Costs are funded by the guaranteed loan or other Federal and non-Federal governmental assistance such as grants, tax credits, or other loan guarantees;
(12) Economic safeguards of the Project including contingency reserve funds and protections and safeguards provided to the Agency and Lender in the event of default through loan collateral and ownership and sponsorship guarantors, and;
(13) Other criteria that the Agency deems relevant.
§ 4279.216
Environmental responsibilities.
Lenders are responsible for becoming familiar with Federal environmental requirements; considering, in consultation with the prospective Borrower, the potential environmental impacts of their proposals at the earliest planning stages; and developing proposals that minimize the potential to adversely impact the environment.
(a) Lenders must alert the Agency to any environmental issues related to a proposed Project or items that may require extensive environmental review.
(b) Lenders must ensure that the Borrower has:
(1) Provided the necessary environmental documentation to enable the Agency to undertake its environmental review process in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, including the provision of all required Federal, State, and local permits.
(2) Complied with any mitigation measures required by the Agency; and
(3) Not taken any actions or incurred any obligations with respect to the proposed Project that will either limit the range of alternatives to be considered during the Agency's environmental review process or which will have an adverse effect on the environment.
(c) Lenders must assist in the collection of additional data when the Agency needs such data to complete its environmental review of the proposal and assist in the resolution of environmental issues.
[61 FR 67633, Dec. 23, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 11051, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 4279.217
Oversight and monitoring.
The Lender must permit representatives of the Agency (or other agencies of the United States) to inspect and make copies of any records of the Lender pertaining to Program guaranteed loans during regular office hours of the Lender or at any other time upon agreement between the Lender and the Agency. In addition, the Lender must cooperate fully with Agency oversight and monitoring of all Lenders involved in any manner with any loan guarantee under this Program to ensure compliance with this subpart. Such oversight and monitoring will include, but is not limited to, reviewing Lender records and meeting with Lenders (in accordance with § 4287.307(d) of this chapter).
§§ 4279.218-4279.219
[Reserved]

# Conditions of Guarantee
§ 4279.220
General conditions of guarantee.
A loan guarantee under this part will be evidenced by a Loan Note Guarantee issued by the Agency. Each Lender will execute a Lender's Agreement. If a valid Lender's Agreement already exists, it is not necessary to execute a new Lender's Agreement with each loan guarantee. The provisions of this part and 7 CFR part 4287, subpart D will apply to all outstanding guarantees. In the event of a conflict between the guaranteed loan documents and these regulations as they exist at the time the documents are executed, the regulations will control.
(a)
Full faith and credit.
(1) A guarantee under this subpart constitutes an obligation supported by the full faith and credit of the United States and is incontestable except for fraud or misrepresentation of which a Lender or Holder has actual knowledge at the time it becomes such Lender or Holder or which a Lender or Holder participates in or condones.
(2) The guarantee will be unenforceable to the extent that any loss is occasioned by:
(i) A provision for Interest on Interest, Default or penalty Interest, or late payment fees;
(ii) The violation of usury laws;
(iii) Use of loan proceeds for unauthorized purposes or to the extent that loan funds are used for purposes other than those specifically approved by the Agency in its Conditional Commitment;
(iv) Failure to obtain or maintain the required security regardless of the time at which the Agency acquires knowledge thereof; and
(v) Negligent Loan Origination or Negligent Loan Servicing unless otherwise determined under paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) The Agency will guarantee payment as follows:
(i) To any Holder, 100 percent of any loss sustained by the Holder on the guaranteed portion of the loan it owns and Interest through the Interest Termination Date due on such portion.
(ii) To the Lender, subject to the provisions of this part and subpart D of part 4287 of this chapter, the lesser of:
(A) Any loss sustained by the Lender on the guaranteed portion, including principal and Interest, through the Interest Termination Date, evidenced by the notes or assumption agreements and secured advances for protection
and preservation of Collateral made with the Agency's authorization; or
(B) The guaranteed principal advanced to or assumed by the Borrower and any Interest due thereon through the Interest Termination Date.
(b)
Credit quality of Borrower.
The Agency will provide guarantees only after consideration is given to the Borrower's overall credit quality and to the terms and conditions of any applicable subsidies, tax credits, and other such incentives.
(c)
Quality of loan.
All loans guaranteed under this subpart must be financially sound and feasible, with reasonable assurance of repayment.
(d)
Gross negligence.
Upon written request of the Lender, the Agency will consider changing the negligence standard to Grossly Negligent Loan Origination and Grossly Negligent Loan Servicing on a case-by-case basis. The Lender must establish to the Agency's satisfaction that changing to the gross negligence standard does not materially impair the Agency's interests, solely at the Agency's discretion, subject to:
(1) The lender has demonstrated capacity and experience in making and servicing loans of similar amounts and for transactions of comparable complexity;
(2) The Agency's review of the Lender's underwriting, loan approval and loan servicing policies and procedures, and;
(3) The Agency's review of the Lender's loan servicing plan.
§ 4279.221
Rights and liabilities.
When a guaranteed portion of a loan is sold to a Holder, the Holder will succeed to all rights of the Lender under the Loan Note Guarantee to the extent of the portion purchased.
(a) The Lender will remain bound to all obligations under the Loan Note Guarantee, Lender's Agreement, and the Agency Program regulations.
(b) A guarantee and right to require purchase will be directly enforceable by a Holder notwithstanding any fraud or misrepresentation by the Lender or any unenforceability of the guarantee by the Lender, except for fraud or misrepresentation of which the Holder had actual knowledge at the time it became the Holder or in which the Holder participates or condones.
(c) The Lender must reimburse the Agency for any payments the Agency makes to a Holder of Lender's guaranteed loan that, under the Loan Note Guarantee, would not have been paid to the Lender had the Lender retained the entire interest in the guaranteed loan and not conveyed an interest to a Holder.
§ 4279.222
Payments.
A Lender will receive all payments of principal and Interest on account of the entire loan and must promptly remit to the Holder its Pro Rata share of any payment within 30 days of the Lender's receipt thereof from the Borrower, determined according to its respective interest in the loan, less only the Lender's servicing fee.
§ 4279.223
Sale or assignment of guaranteed loan.
The Lender may Participate or sell all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan or retain the entire loan. The Lender must fully disburse and properly close a loan prior to sale of any portion of the Promissory Note(s). The Lender cannot Participate or sell any amount of the guaranteed or unguaranteed portion of the loan to the Borrower or its parent, subsidiary or Affiliate or to officers, directors, stockholders, other owners, or members of their Immediate Families. The Lender cannot share any premium received from the sale of a guaranteed loan in the secondary market with a Loan Packager or other Loan Service Provider. The participating Lenders and Holders and the Borrower can have no rights or obligations to one another. If the Lender desires to market all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan at or subsequent to loan closing, such loan must not be in Default. Lenders may use either the single Promissory Note or multi-note system as outlined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a)
Single note system.
The entire loan is evidenced by one Promissory Note, and one Loan Note Guarantee is issued. When the loan is evidenced by one Promissory Note, the Lender may not
at a later date cause any additional notes to be issued.
(1) The Lender may assign all or part of the guaranteed portion of the loan to one or more Holders by using the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. The Lender must retain title to the Promissory Note. The Lender must complete and execute the Assignment Guarantee Agreement and return it to the Agency for execution prior to Holder execution.
(2) A Holder, upon written notice to the Lender and the Agency, may reassign the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan, in full, sold under the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. Holders may only reassign the guaranteed portion in the complete block they have received and cannot subdivide or further split the guaranteed portion of a loan or retain an Interest strip.
(3) Upon notification and completion of the assignment through the use of the Assignment Guarantee Agreement, the assignee shall succeed to all rights and obligations of the Holder thereunder. Subsequent assignments require notice to the Lender and Agency using any format, including that used by the Bond Market Association, together with the transfer of the original Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
(4) The Agency will neither execute a new Assignment Guarantee Agreement to effect a subsequent reassignment nor reissue a duplicate Assignment Guarantee Agreement unless:
(i) The original was lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced; and
(ii) The reissue is in accordance with § 4279.226.
(5) The Assignment Guarantee Agreement clearly states the percentage and corresponding amount of the guaranteed portion it represents and the Lender's servicing fee. A servicing fee may be charged by the Lender to a Holder and is calculated as a percentage per annum of the unpaid balance of the guaranteed portion of the loan assigned by the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. The Agency is not and will not be a party to any contract between the Lender and another party where the Lender sells its servicing fee in an Arm's Length Transaction. The Agency will not acknowledge, approve, or have any liability to any of the parties of such contract.
(b)
Multi-note system.
Under this option, the Lender may provide multiple Promissory Notes for the unguaranteed and the guaranteed portions of the loan. All Promissory Notes must reflect the same payment terms. When the Lender selects this option, the Holder will receive one of the Borrower's executed notes and a Loan Note Guarantee. The Agency will issue a Loan Note Guarantee for each Promissory Note, including the unguaranteed Promissory Note(s), to be attached to the Promissory Note(s). An Assignment Guarantee Agreement will not be used when the multi-note option is utilized.
§ 4279.224
Minimum retention.
The Lender is required to hold a minimum of 7.5 percent of the total loan amount. The amount required to be held must be of the unguaranteed portion of the loan and cannot be Participated to another Person. The Agency may reduce the minimum retention below 7.5 percent on a case by case basis when the Lender establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that reduction of the minimum retention percentage is to meet compliance with the Lender's regulatory authority. The Lender must retain interest in the Collateral, and retain the servicing responsibilities for the guaranteed loan.
§ 4279.225
Repurchase from Holder.
(a)
Repurchase by Lender.
A Lender has the option to repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan from a Holder within 30 days of written demand by the Holder when the Borrower is in Default not less than 60 days on principal or Interest due on the loan; or when the Lender has failed to remit to the Holder its Pro Rata share of any payment within 30 days of the Lender's receipt thereof from the Borrower. The repurchase by the Lender will be for an amount equal to the unpaid guaranteed portion of principal and accrued Interest less the Lender's servicing fee. The Holder must concurrently send a copy of the demand letter to the Agency. The Lender must accept an assignment without recourse from
the Holder upon repurchase. The Lender is encouraged to repurchase the loan, upon written demand from the Holder, to facilitate the accounting of funds, resolve any loan problem, and resolve the Default, where and when reasonable. The benefit to the Lender is that it may re-sell the guaranteed portion of the loan in order to continue collection of its servicing fee if the Default is cured. The Lender must notify, in writing, the Holder and the Agency of its decision.
(b)
Agency repurchase.
(1) The Lender's servicing fee will stop on the date that Interest was last paid by the Borrower when the Agency purchases the guaranteed portion of the loan from a Holder. The Lender cannot charge such servicing fee to the Agency and must apply all loan payments and Collateral proceeds received to the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan on a Pro Rata basis.
(2) If the Agency repurchases 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan, the Agency will not continue collection of the Annual Renewal Fee from the Lender.
(3) If the Lender does not repurchase the unpaid guaranteed portion of the loan as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will purchase from the Holder the unpaid principal balance of the guaranteed portion together with accrued Interest to date of repurchase or the Interest Termination Date, whichever is sooner, less the Lender's servicing fee, within 30 days after written demand to the Agency from the Holder.
(4) When Lender has accelerated the account, and subject to the expiration of any forbearance or workout agreement, the Lender, or the Agency at its sole discretion, must issue a letter to the Holder(s) establishing the Interest Termination Date. Accrued Interest to be paid to the Holder(s) will be calculated from the date Interest was last paid on the loan with a termination date not to exceed the Interest Termination Date.
(5) When the Lender has accelerated the account and the Lender holds all or a portion of the guaranteed loan, an estimated loss claim (loan in the liquidation process) must be filed by the Lender with the Agency within 60 days. Accrued Interest paid to the Lender will be calculated from the date Interest was last paid on the loan to the Interest Termination Date.
(6) The Holder's demand to the Agency must include a copy of the written demand made upon the Lender. The Holder must also include evidence of its right to require payment from the Agency. Such evidence must consist of either the original of the Loan Note Guarantee properly endorsed to the Agency or the original of the Assignment Guarantee Agreement properly assigned to the Agency without recourse including all rights, title, and interest in the loan. When the single-note system is utilized and the initial Holder has sold its interest, the current Holder must present the original Assignment Guarantee Agreement and an original of each Agency approved reassignment document in the chain of ownership, with the latest reassignment being assigned to the Agency without recourse, including all rights, title, and interest in the guarantee. The Holder must include in its demand the amount due including unpaid principal, unpaid Interest to date of demand, and Interest subsequently accruing from date of demand to proposed payment date. The Agency will be subrogated to all rights of the Holder.
(7) Upon request by the Agency, the Lender must furnish within 30 days of such request a current statement certified by an appropriate authorized officer of the Lender of the unpaid principal and Interest then owed by the Borrower on the loan and the amount then owed to any Holder, along with the information necessary for the Agency to determine the appropriate amount due the Holder. Any discrepancy between the amount claimed by the Holder and the information submitted by the Lender must be resolved between the Lender and the Holder before payment will be approved. Such conflict will suspend the running of the 30 day payment requirement.
(8) Purchase by the Agency neither changes, alters, nor modifies any of the Lender's obligations to the Agency arising from the loan or guarantee nor does it waive any of Agency's rights against the Lender. The Agency will have the right to set-off against the
Lender all rights inuring to the Agency as the Holder of the instrument against the Agency's obligation to the Lender under the guarantee.
(c)
Repurchase for servicing.
If the Lender, Borrower, and Holder are unable to agree to restructuring of loan repayment, Interest rate, or loan terms to resolve any loan problem or resolve the Default and repurchase of the guaranteed portion of the loan is necessary to adequately service the loan, the Holder must sell the guaranteed portion of the loan to the Lender for an amount equal to the unpaid principal and Interest on such portion less the Lender's servicing fee. The Lender must not repurchase from the Holder for arbitrage or other purposes to further its own financial gain. Any repurchase must only be made after the Lender obtains the Agency's written approval. If the Lender does not repurchase the guaranteed portion from the Holder, the Agency may, at its option, purchase such guaranteed portion for servicing purposes.
§ 4279.226
Replacement of document.
(a) The Agency may issue a replacement Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement which was lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced to the Lender or Holder upon receipt of an acceptable certificate of loss and an indemnity bond.
(b) When a Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement is lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced while in the custody of the Lender or Holder, the Lender must coordinate the activities of the party who seeks the replacement documents and must submit the required documents to the Agency for processing. The requirements for replacement are as follows:
(1) A certificate of loss, notarized and containing a jurat, which includes:
(i) Name and address of owner;
(ii) Name and address of the Lender of record;
(iii) Capacity of Person certifying;
(iv) Full identification of the Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement including the name of the Borrower, the Agency's case number, date of the Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement, face amount of the evidence of debt purchased, date of evidence of debt, present balance of the loan, percentage of guarantee, and, if an Assignment Guarantee Agreement, the original named Holder and the percentage of the guaranteed portion of the loan assigned to that Holder. Any existing parts of the document to be replaced must be attached to the certificate;
(v) A full statement of circumstances of the loss, theft, destruction, defacement, or mutilation of the Loan Note Guarantee or Assignment Guarantee Agreement; and
(vi) For the Holder, evidence demonstrating current ownership of the Loan Note Guarantee and Promissory Note or the Assignment Guarantee Agreement. If the present Holder is not the same as the original Holder, a copy of the endorsement of each successive Holder in the chain of transfer from the initial Holder to present Holder must be included. If copies of the endorsement cannot be obtained, best available records of transfer must be submitted to the Agency (
e.g.,
order confirmation, canceled checks, etc.).
(2) An indemnity bond acceptable to the Agency must accompany the request for replacement except when the Holder is the United States, a Federal Reserve Bank, a Federal corporation, a State or territory, or the District of Columbia. The indemnity bond must be with surety except when the outstanding principal balance and accrued Interest due the present Holder is less than $1 million verified by the Lender in writing in a letter of certification of balance due. The surety must be a qualified surety company holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury and listed in Treasury Department Circular 570.
(3) All indemnity bonds must be issued and payable to the United States of America acting through the Agency. The bond must be in an amount not less than the unpaid principal and Interest. The bond must hold the Agency harmless against any claim or demand that might arise or against any damage, loss, costs, or expenses that might be sustained or incurred by reasons of the loss or replacement of the instruments.
(4) In those cases where the guaranteed loan was closed under the provision of the multi-note system, the Agency will not attempt to obtain, or participate in the obtaining of, replacement Promissory Notes from the Borrower. The Holder is responsible for bearing the costs of Promissory Note replacement if the Borrower agrees to issue a replacement instrument. Should such Promissory Note be replaced, the terms of the Promissory Note cannot be changed. If the evidence of debt has been lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced, such evidence of debt must be replaced before the Agency will replace any instruments.
§ 4279.227
Equal Credit Opportunity Act.
In accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691,
et seq.
), with respect to any aspect of a credit transaction, neither the Lender nor the Agency will discriminate against any applicant on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status or age (providing the applicant has the capacity to contract), or because all or part of the applicant's income derives from a public assistance program, or because the applicant has, in good faith, exercised any right under the Consumer Protection Act. The Lender must comply with the requirements of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act as contained in the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation implementing that Act (see 12 CFR part 202) prior to loan closing.
§§ 4279.228-4279.230
[Reserved]

# Loan Processing
§ 4279.231
Fees.
(a)
Guarantee fee.
The guarantee fee is paid to the Agency by the Lender and is nonrefundable. The fee may be passed on to the Borrower. Issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee is conditioned on payment of the guarantee fee by closing. The guarantee fee will be the percentage specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, unless otherwise specified by the Agency in a notice published in the
Federal Register,
multiplied by the principal loan amount multiplied by the percent of guarantee and will be paid one time only at the time the Loan Note Guarantee is issued.
(1) For loans receiving a 90 percent guarantee, the guarantee fee is three percent.
(2) For loans receiving less than a 90 percent guarantee, the guarantee fee is:
(i) Two percent for guarantees on loans greater than 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.
(ii) One and one-half percent for guarantees on loans of greater than 65 percent but less than or equal to 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.
(iii) One percent for guarantees on loans of 65 percent or less of total Eligible Project Costs.
(b)
Annual Renewal Fee.
The Annual Renewal Fee, which may be passed on to the Borrower, is paid by the Lender to the Agency for as long as the guarantee is outstanding and is payable during the construction period.
(1) The amount of the annual renewal fee is calculated by the outstanding principal loan balance as of December 31 of each year multiplied by the Annual Renewal Fee rate, multiplied by the percent of guarantee. The rate is the rate in effect at the time the loan is obligated, and will remain in effect for the life of the loan.
(2) The Annual Renewal Fee is paid once a year and is required to maintain the enforceability of the guarantee as to the lender. Annual Renewal Rees are due on January 31. Payments not received by April 1 are considered delinquent and, at the Agency's discretion, may result in cancellation of the guarantee to the lender. Holders' rights will continue in effect as specified in the Loan Note Guarantee and Assignment Guarantee Agreement. Any delinquent Annual Renewal Fees will bear interest at the note rate and will be deducted from any loss payment due the lender. For loans where the Loan Note Guarantee is issued between October 1 and December 31, the first Annual Renewal Fee payment will be due January 31 of the second year following the date the Loan Note Guarantee was issued.
(3) When the Agency repurchases 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan, the Agency will not continue collection of the Annual Renewal Fee.
(4) Unless otherwise specified by the Agency in a notice published in the
Federal Register,
the Annual Renewal Fee rate will be as follows:
(i) One hundred basis points (1 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally greater than 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.
(ii) Seventy five basis points (0.75 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally greater than 65 percent but less than or equal to 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.
(iii) Fifty basis points (0.50 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally for 65 percent or less of Total Eligible Project Costs.
(c)
Routine Lender fees.
The Lender may establish charges and fees for the loan provided they are similar to those normally charged other applicants for the same type of loan in the ordinary course of business, and these fees are an eligible use of loan proceeds. The Lender must document such routine fees on Form RD 4279-1, “Application for Loan Guarantee.” The Lender may charge prepayment penalties and late payment fees that are stipulated in the loan documents, as long as they are reasonable and customary; however, the Loan Note Guarantee will not cover either prepayment penalties or late payment fees.
§ 4279.232
Guaranteed loan funding.
(a) The amount of a loan guaranteed for a Project under this subpart will not exceed 80 percent of total Eligible Project Costs. Total Federal participation will not exceed 80 percent of total Eligible Project Costs. The Borrower needs to provide the remaining 20 percent from non-Federal sources to complete the Project. Eligible Project Costs are specified in § 4279.210(d). If an eligible Borrower receives other direct Federal funding (
i.e.,
direct loans or grants) for a Project, the maximum amount of the loan that the Agency will guarantee under this subpart must be reduced by the same amount of the other direct Federal funding that the eligible Borrower received for the Project. For example, an eligible Borrower is applying for a loan guarantee on a $100,000,000 Project. If the Borrower receives no other direct Federal funding for this Project and requests an $80,000,000 guaranteed loan, the Agency will consider a guarantee on the $80,000,000. However, if this Borrower receives $10,000,000 in other direct Federal funding for this Project, the Agency will only consider a guarantee on $70,000,000.
(b) The maximum principal amount of a loan guaranteed under this subpart is $250 million to one Borrower; there is no minimum amount.
(c) The maximum guarantee on the principal and Interest due on a loan guaranteed under this subpart will be determined as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) If the loan amount is equal to or less than $125 million, 80 percent for the entire loan amount unless all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section are met, in which case 90 percent for the entire loan amount.
(i) Total Federal participation, sum of the amount of the loan requested and other direct Federal funding, must not be greater than 60 percent of total Eligible Project Costs;
(ii) Feedstock and Off-Take Agreements of at least 1 year in duration; and
(iii) Total of revenues from tax credits, carbon credits, or other Federal or State subsidies cannot be greater than 10 percent of the Project's total revenues on an annual basis, in the Borrower's base case of financial projections.
(2) If the loan amount is more than $125 million and less than $150 million, 80 percent for the entire loan amount.
(3) If the loan amount is equal to or more than $150 million but less than $200 million, 70 percent on the entire loan amount.
(4) If the loan amount is $200 million up to and including $250 million, 60 percent on the entire loan amount.
§ 4279.233
Interest rates.
The Interest rate for the guaranteed loan will be negotiated between the Lender and the Borrower and may be either fixed or variable, or a combination thereof, as long as it is a legal rate. Interest rates will not be more than those rates the Lender customarily charges Borrowers for non-guaranteed loans in similar circumstances
in the ordinary course of business and are subject to Agency review and approval. Lenders are encouraged to utilize the secondary market and pass Interest-rate savings on to the Borrower.
(a) A variable Interest rate must be a rate that is tied to a published base rate. The variable Interest rate must be specified in the Promissory Note and may be adjusted at specified intervals during the term of the loan, but the adjustments may not be more often than once each Calendar Quarter. The Lender must incorporate, within the variable rate Promissory Note at loan closing, the provision for adjustment of payment installments. The Lender must properly amortize the outstanding principal balance within the prescribed loan maturity in order to eliminate the possibility of a balloon payment at the end of the loan.
(b) Any change in the base rate or fixed Interest rate between issuance of the Conditional Commitment and the issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee must be approved by the Agency. Approval of such a change must be shown as an amendment to the Conditional Commitment and must be reflected on the Guaranteed Loan Closing Report.
(c) It is permissible to have different Interest rates on the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan.
§ 4279.234
Terms of loan.
The loan terms, other than Interest, must be the same for both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan.
(a) The repayment term for a loan under this subpart will be no greater than the lesser of 20 years from the date of loan closing or the useful life of the Project, as determined by the Lender and confirmed by the Agency. Both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan must be amortized over the same term.
(b) A loan's maturity will take into consideration the use of proceeds, the useful life of assets being financed, and the Borrower's ability to repay the loan.
(c) The first installment of principal and Interest will, if possible, be scheduled for payment after the Project is operational and has begun to generate income. However, the first full installment must be due and payable within three years from the date of the Promissory Note and be paid at least annually thereafter. In cases where there is an Interest-only period, Interest will be paid at least annually from the date of the Promissory Note.
(d) Only loans that require a periodic payment schedule that will retire the debt over the term of the loan without a balloon payment will be guaranteed except the final payment may be the funds held in the debt service reserve account.
§ 4279.235
Collateral.
The Lender is responsible for obtaining and maintaining proper and adequate Collateral to protect the interest of the Lender, the Holder, and the Agency. Collateral must be of such a nature that repayment of the loan is reasonably ensured when considered with the integrity and ability of Project management, soundness of the Project, and the Borrower's prospective earnings. The Collateral may include, but is not limited to, the following: Revenue, land, easements, rights-of-way, buildings, machinery, equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, contracts, cash, or other accounts, licenses and assignments of leases or leasehold interest.
(a) The entire loan, the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions, must be secured by a first lien on all assets of the Project including all assets in the Project budget. The Agency may consider a subordinate lien position on inventory and accounts receivable to Working Capital loans including revolving lines of credit provided the Agency determines the Working Capital is necessary for the operation and with the Subordination, the loan remains adequately secured.
(b) The entire loan must be secured by the same security with equal lien priority for the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions of the loan. The unguaranteed portion of the loan will neither be paid first nor given any preference or priority over the guaranteed portion.
§§ 4279.236-4279.242
[Reserved]
§ 4279.243
Insurance.
The Lender is responsible for ensuring that required insurance is maintained by the Borrower. The Lender must be shown as an additional insured on insurance policies (or other risk sharing instruments) that benefit the Project and must be able to assume any contracts that are material to the Project, including any feedstock or Off-Take Agreements, as may be applicable.
(a)
Hazard.
Hazard insurance with a standard clause naming the Lender as mortgagee or loss payee, as applicable, is required for the life of the guaranteed loan. The amount must be at least equal to the replacement value of the Collateral or the outstanding balance of the loan, whichever is the greater amount.
(b)
Life.
The Lender may require as Collateral an assignment of life insurance to insure against the risk of death of persons critical to the success of the business. When required, coverage must be in amounts necessary to provide for management succession or to protect the business. The Agency may require life insurance on key individuals for loans where the Lender has not otherwise proposed such coverage. The cost of insurance and its effect on the applicant's Working Capital must be considered as well as the amount of existing insurance that could be assigned without requiring additional expense.
(c)
Worker compensation.
Worker compensation insurance is required in accordance with State law.
(d)
Flood.
National flood insurance is required in accordance with applicable law.
(e)
Other.
The Lender must consider whether public liability, business interruption, malpractice, and other insurance is appropriate to the Borrower's particular business and must require the Borrower to obtain such insurance as is necessary to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Lender, or the Agency.
§ 4279.244
Appraisals.
(a) Lenders must obtain appraisals for real estate when the value of the Collateral exceeds $250,000. Each appraisal must be reported in a manner that summarizes all of the information necessary for the intended users to understand the report and contain all information pertinent to the appraiser's opinions and conclusions.
(1) Appraisals must not be more than one year old, and a more recent appraisal may be requested by the Agency in order to reflect more current market conditions. For loan servicing purposes, an appraisal may be updated in lieu of a complete new appraisal when the original appraisal is more than one year old, but less than two years old.
(2) Specialized appraisers will be required to complete appraisals under this section. The Agency may approve a waiver of this requirement only if a specialized appraiser does not exist in a specific industry. The Agency will require documentation that the appraiser has the necessary experience and competency to appraise the property in question.
(3) All real property appraisals associated with Agency guaranteed loan origination and servicing transactions must meet the requirements contained in the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) of 1989 and the appropriate guidelines contained in Standards 1 and 2 of the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices (USPAP) and be performed by a State Certified General Appraiser. Notwithstanding any exemption that may exist for transactions guaranteed by a Federal Government agency, all appraisals obtained by the Lender for origination and servicing must conform to the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluations Guidelines established by the Lender's primary Federal or State regulator.
(4) All appraisals must include consideration of the potential effects from a release of hazardous substances or petroleum products or other environmental hazards on the Market Value of the Collateral. The Lender must complete and submit its technical review of the appraisal. For construction Projects, the Lender must use the “as-completed” Market Value of the real estate to determine value of the real estate property. For all proposals,
Lenders must obtain a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment in accordance with ASTM International Standards, which should be provided to the appraiser for completion of the appraisal. For additional guidance and information refer to “Phase I Environmental Site Assessment,” published by the American Society of Testing and Materials.
(b) Chattels must be evaluated in accordance with normal banking practices and generally accepted methods of determining value. Chattel appraisals must reflect the age, condition, and remaining useful life of the equipment. If the appraisal is completed by a State licensed/certified appraiser, the appraisal report must comply with USPAP Standards 7 and 8.
§ 4279.245
Personal and corporate guarantees.
(a) Unconditional personal and corporate guarantees are required for the full term of the loan from Persons owning 20 percent or greater interest in the borrower.
(b) When warranted by an Agency assessment and its credit evaluation, guarantees may also be required of parent, subsidiaries, affiliated companies, Persons owning less than a 20 percent interest in the borrower, or Persons whose ownership interest in the Borrower is held indirectly through intermediate entities.
(c) The Agency may require the guarantees to be secured.
(d) Partial guarantees and exemptions to the requirement for guarantees may be requested by the Lender and are subject to concurrence by the Agency approval official on a case-by-case basis when warranted by an Agency assessment and its credit evaluation in accordance with § 4279.215(b). If partial guarantees are required, the partial guarantee will be at least equal to each owner's percentage of interest in the Borrower multiplied by the loan amount.
(e) All personal and corporate guarantors must execute Form RD 4279-14, “Unconditional Guarantee,” and any guarantee form required by the Lender. The Agency will retain the original, executed Form RD 4279-14.
(1) Any amounts paid by the Agency on behalf of an Agency Borrower will constitute a Federal Debt owed to the Agency by the Borrower.
(2) Any amounts paid by the Agency pursuant to a claim by a Lender will constitute a Federal Debt owed to the Agency by a guarantor of the loan, to the extent of the amount of the guarantor's guarantee.
(3) In all instances under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, Interest charges will be assessed at the Promissory Note Interest rate on the date a loss claim is paid.
§§ 4279.246-4279.255
[Reserved]
§ 4279.256
Construction planning and performing development.
The Lender and Borrower must comply with paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section. The Lender may contract for services and may rely on certain written materials and other reports to be provided by an independent engineer and other qualified third parties.
(a)
Design policy.
The Lender must monitor and require the Borrower ensure that all facilities constructed with Program funds are designed, and costs estimated, by an independent professional utilizing accepted architectural, engineering, and design practices and conform to applicable Federal, State, and local codes and requirements.
(b)
Project control.
(1) The Lender must monitor the progress of construction and confirm the reviews and inspections necessary to ensure that construction conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local code requirements have been performed; proceeds are used in accordance with the approved plans, specifications, and contract documents; and that loan funds are used for Eligible Project Costs in accordance with the purposes approved by the Agency in its Conditional Commitment. The Lender must expeditiously report any problems in Project development to the Agency.
(2) The Lender must ensure an onsite Project inspector or independent engineer monitors the Project.
(3) The Lender must monitor the Project to confirm that the Project will be completed with available funds and, once completed, will be used for
its intended purpose and produce products in the quality and quantity proposed in the completed application approved by the Agency. Once construction is completed, the Lender must provide the Agency with a copy of the notice of completion.
(4) Prior to the disbursement of construction funds, the Lender shall:
(i) Have on file the major drawings issued for construction and major equipment specifications issued for procurement;
(ii) Have a detailed timetable for the Project with a corresponding budget of costs, setting forth the parties responsible for payment;
(iii) Ensure that the independent engineer confirms that the budget is adequate for the Project;
(iv) Require the Borrower to have a firm fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contract in place which includes performance guarantees customary and reasonable for a project of this nature or engineering, construction, and procurement contracts in place with vendors and construction contractors for the construction of the Project, each on customary terms and conditions;
(v) Require provisions for change order approvals, a retainage percentage, and a disbursement schedule;
(vi) Require the Borrower to have contingencies in place to handle unforeseeable cost overruns without seeking additional Agency assistance. These contingencies must be agreed to by the Agency.
(c)
Changes and cost overruns.
The Borrower is responsible for any changes or cost overruns. If any such change or cost overrun occurs, then any change order must be expressly approved by the Agency, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and neither the Lender nor Borrower will divert funds from purposes identified in the guaranteed loan application approved by the Agency to pay for any such change or cost overrun without the express written approval of the Agency. In no event will the current loan be modified or a subsequent guaranteed loan be approved to cover any such changes or costs. In the event of any of the aforementioned increases in cost or expenses, the Borrower must provide for such increases in a manner that does not diminish the Borrower's operating capital. Failure to comply with the terms of this paragraph (c) will be considered a Material Adverse Change in the Borrower's financial condition, and the Lender must address this matter, in writing, to the Agency's satisfaction.
(d)
New draw certifications.
The following three certifications are required for each new draw:
(1) Certification by the Project engineer to the Lender that the work referred to in the draw has been successfully completed;
(2) Certification that all debts have been paid and all mechanics' liens have been waived; and
(3) Certification that the Borrower is complying with the Davis-Bacon Act (see paragraph (h) of this section).
(e)
Surety.
Surety, as the term is commonly used in the industry, will be required. The Borrower must have either 100 percent performance/payment bonds on the contractors or a guarantee from a creditworthy parent entity or an alternative acceptable to the Lender and the Agency and must be secured. The bonding agent must be listed on Treasury Circular 570.
(f)
Equal opportunity.
For all construction contracts in excess of $10,000, the contractor must comply with Executive Order 11246, entitled “Equal Employment Opportunity,” as amended by Executive Order 11375, and as supplemented by applicable Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR part 60). The Borrower and Lender are responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with these requirements.
(g)
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
Construction of or addition to facilities that accommodate the public or commercial facilities, as defined by the ADA, must comply with the ADA.
(h)
Wage rates.
As a condition of receiving a loan guaranteed under this subpart, each Borrower shall ensure that all laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of construction work financed in whole or in part with guaranteed loan funds under this subpart shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar
construction in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with sections 3141 through 3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40, U.S.C. Awards under this subpart are further subject to the relevant regulations contained in 29 CFR part 5.
(i)
Reporting during construction.
Lenders must submit monthly construction and quarterly progress reports to the Agency, as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2), respectively, of this section and the Borrower information specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.
(1) Monthly construction reports documenting the use of the Project funding until construction is completed. The reports must include the following:
(i) Certifications for each draw request:
(A) Certification by the independent engineer to the Lender that the work referred to in the draw has been successfully completed;
(B) Certification from the Borrower and independent engineer or that the proceeds of the prior draw have been applied to Eligible Project Costs in accordance with the draw request and that the contractors have delivered mechanics' lien waivers in connection with such draw; and
(C) Certification from the Borrower as to its compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act confirmed by the independent engineer;
(ii) List of invoices;
(iii) Detail of equity and Guaranteed Loan funds paid to date;
(iv) Status of construction and inspection reports; and
(v) Concerns, potential problems, cost overruns, etc.
(2) Quarterly progress reports by the end of each Calendar Quarter, unless more frequent ones are needed as determined by the Agency, through the time when the facility is producing at its designed capacity at a steady state. These reports must contain, at a minimum, planned and completed construction milestones, loan advances, and personnel hiring, training, and retention and commissioning and ramp-up milestones and performance reports. This requirement applies to both the development and construction of Commercial-Scale Biorefineries and to the Retrofitting of existing facilities using Eligible Technology for the development of Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals. The Lender must expeditiously report any problems in Project development to the Agency.
(3) Once construction is completed, the Lender must provide the Agency with:
(i) A copy of all required material building permits, with sign-offs;
(ii) Notice of Completion or an Agency approved equivalent; and
(iii) Final accounting of sources and uses of all Project funds.
§§ 4279.257-4279.258
[Reserved]
§ 4279.259
Borrower responsibilities.
(a)
Federal, State, and local regulations.
Borrowers must comply with all Federal, State, and local laws and rules that are in existence and that affect the Project including, but not limited to:
(1) Land use zoning;
(2) Health, safety, and sanitation standards as well as design and installation standards; and
(3) Protection of the environment and consumer affairs.
(b)
Permits, agreements, and licenses.
Borrowers must obtain all permits, agreements, and licenses that are applicable to the Project.
(c)
Insurance.
The Borrower is responsible for maintaining all hazard, flood, liability, worker compensation, and personal life insurance, when required, for the Project.
(d)
Access to Borrower's records.
Except as provided by law, upon request by the Agency, the Borrower will permit representatives of the Agency (or other Federal agencies as authorized by the Agency) to inspect and make copies of any of the records of the Borrower's Project. Such inspection and copying may be made during regular office hours of the Borrower or at any other time agreed upon between the Borrower and the Agency.
(e)
Access to the Project.
The Borrower must allow the Agency access to the Project and its performance information until the loan is repaid in full and permit periodic inspections of the
Project by a representative of the Agency.

# Applications
§ 4279.260
Guarantee applications—general.
(a)
Application submittal.
(1) For each guarantee request, the Lender or the Borrower must submit to the Agency a non-binding letter of intent to apply for loan guarantee not less than 30 calendar days prior to the application deadline as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The letter must identify the Borrower, the Lender and Project sponsors; describe the Project and Project location; describe the proposed feedstock, primary technologies of the facility and primary products produced; estimate the Total Project Cost and amount of loan requested; and any additional information specified in the annual
Federal Register
notice, if any. Applications that do not submit a letter of intent may be accepted by the Agency at the Agency's discretion.
(2) For each guarantee request, the Lender must submit to the Agency an application that is in conformance with § 4279.261. The methods of application submittal will be specified in the annual
Federal Register
notice.
(b)
Application deadline.
Unless otherwise specified by the Agency in a notice published in the
Federal Register,
application deadlines are October 1 and April 1 of each year. Complete applications must be received by the Agency on or before April 1 of each year to be considered for funding for that fiscal year. If the application deadline falls on a weekend or an observed holiday, the deadline will be the next Federal business day. The deadlines in this paragraph (b) relate to Phase 1 applications in accordance with § 4279.261.
(c)
Incomplete applications.
Incomplete applications will be rejected. Lenders will be informed of the elements that made the application incomplete. If a resubmitted application is received by the applicable application deadline, the Agency will reconsider the application.
(d)
Application withdrawal.
During the period between the submission of an application and closing, the Lender must notify the Agency, in writing, if the Project is no longer viable or the Borrower is no longer requesting financial assistance for the Project. When the Lender so notifies the Agency, the Agency will rescind the selection or withdraw the application.
(e)
Application revisions and updates.
During the period between the submission of an application and closing, the Lender must notify the Agency, in writing, of revisions to the Project including but not limited to revisions to technology utilized in the Project, feedstock, Off-Take Agreements, ownership structure, and Project financing. The Agency may require submittal of updated application and supporting materials. The Agency will complete the application priority scoring in accordance with § 4279.266 based on the application materials received by the Agency prior to the application deadline. Subsequent changes to an application that result in a lower priority score could result in the Agency discontinuing processing of the application.
§ 4279.261
Application for loan guarantee content.
Lenders must submit a complete application for each loan guarantee sought under this subpart. Components of an application are submitted in two phases. Phase I applications, which are the initial application submissions, must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section, organized pursuant to a table of contents in a chapter format. Phase 2 application components may be submitted after the Agency invites the Lender and Borrower to make the phase 2 submittal and must contain the information specified in paragraph (k) of this section.
(a)
Project Summary.
Provide a concise summary of the proposed Project and application information, Project purpose and need, and Project goals, including the following:
(1)
Title.
Provide a descriptive title of the Project.
(2)
Borrower eligibility.
Describe how the Borrower meets the eligibility criteria identified in § 4279.209.
(3)
Project eligibility.
Describe how the Project meets the eligibility criteria
identified in § 4279.210. Clearly state whether the application is for the construction and development of a Biorefinery or for the Retrofitting of an existing facility. Additional Project description information will be needed later in the application process.
(4)
Project funds.
Submit a Spreadsheet identifying sources, amounts, and availability of funds. The Spreadsheet must also include a directory of funds source contact information. Attach any applications, correspondence, or other written communication between Borrower and fund source.
(5)
Project timeline.
A projected timeline detailing the timeline commencing with the loan application phase 1, including the loan application phase 2, final Project planning and engineering, obtaining required permits, loan closing, plant construction, commissioning and ramp up through stabilized state of operation.
(b)
Application form.
Form RD 4279-1 or other Agency-approved application form if specified in a
Federal Register
notice.
(c)
Financial statements.
(1) The most recent audited financial statements of the Borrower, unless alternative financial statements are authorized by the Agency; and
(2) A current (not more than 90 days old) balance sheet and a pro forma balance sheet at startup.
(d)
Financial model.
Submit a financial model for the Project in the form of a financial modeling software program in an active electronic format which includes, but is not limited to, a projected Project budget and projected balance sheets, income and expense statements, cash flow statements, and Working Capital and capital expense projections for not less than the term of the loan. The projections must be displayed in a monthly format for a period of three years after stabilized operation and annually thereafter. Projections should be supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections. Depending on the complexity of the Project and the financial condition of the Borrower, the Agency may require additional financial statements and additional related information.
(e)
Feasibility Study.
The Feasibility Study should be prepared by a qualified, independent third party using information gathered from other qualified parties and documents such as: independent engineer reports, marketing studies, feedstock studies, business plans and financial statements prepared by a certified public accountant. Any information used to prepare the Feasibility Study should be submitted as attachments. Elements in an acceptable Feasibility Study include, but are not limited to, the elements outlined in Table 1 of this section.
Table 1—Feasibility Study Components
(A) Executive summary
Introduction/Project Overview (Brief general overview of Project location, size, etc.).
Economic feasibility determination.
Market feasibility determination.
Technical feasibility determination.
Financial feasibility determination.
Management feasibility determination.
Recommendations for implementation.
(B) Economic Feasibility
Description of feedstock and confirmation that the feedstock is not used elsewhere in the production of Advanced Biofuels or Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals.
Feedstock:
Feedstock source management,
Estimates of feedstock volumes and costs,
Collection, pre-treatment, transportation, and storage, and
Feedstock risks.
Documentation that woody biomass feedstock from National Forest system lands or public lands cannot be used for a higher-value product.
Impacts on any other similar Biorefineries in the area in which the Borrower proposes to place the Project, defined as the area that will supply the feedstock to the proposed Project, if any.
Impacts on existing manufacturing plants or other facilities that use similar feedstock if the Borrower's proposed production technology is adopted.
Projected impact on resource conservation, public health, and the environment.
Information regarding Project site.
Availability of trained or trainable labor.
Availability of infrastructure, including utilities, and rail, air and road service to the site.
Overall economic impact of the Project, including direct jobs, indirect jobs, additional markets created for agricultural and forestry products and agricultural waste material and the potential for Rural economic development.
Feasibility/plans of Project to work with producer associations or cooperatives and the estimated amount of annual feedstock purchased from or sold to producer associations and cooperatives.
(C) Market Feasibility
Information on the sales organization and management.
Nature and extent of market and market area.
Marketing plans for sale of projected output—principal products and Byproducts.
Extent of competition, including other similar facilities in the market area.
Commitments from purchasers of off-take—principal products and secondary products, degree of commitment, duration or terms of Off-Take Agreements, and financial strength of counterparties.
Risks related to the industry, including:
Industry status;
Specific market risks; and
Competitive threats and advantages.
(D) Technical Feasibility
Suitability of the selected site for the intended use.
Scale of development for which the process technology has been proven (
i.e.,
pilot, demonstration, or Semi-Work Scale Facility). Provide results from pilot, demonstration, or Semi-Work Scale Facilities that prove that the technology proposed to be used is feasible and stands a good chance of being successful. The proposed technology must meet the definition of Eligible technology.
The degree of integration of all processes should be detailed and a summary of any integrated demonstration unit test results should be submitted.
Specific volume produced from the technology of the process (expressed either as volume of feedstock processed [tons per unit of time] or as product [gallons per unit of time]).
Identification and estimation of Project operation and development costs. Specify the level of accuracy of these estimates and the assumptions on which these estimates have been based. Detailed analysis of Project costs including: Project management and professional services; resource assessment; Project design and permitting; land agreements and site preparation; equipment requirements and system installation; startup and shakedown; and warranties, insurance, financing and operation and maintenance costs.
A projected timeline detailing Borrower plans from the time of loan application through plant construction, commissioning and ramp up should be included.
Ability of the proposed system to be commercially replicated.
Risks related to:
Construction of the Biorefinery;
Production of the Advanced Biofuel and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemical;
Regulation and governmental action;
Design-related factors that may affect Project success; and
Technology scale up risk.
(E) Financial Feasibility
Reliability of the financial projections and the assumptions on which the financial statements are based, including all sources and uses of Project capital, private or public Federal and non-Federal funds. Provide detailed analysis and description of projected balance sheets, income and expense statements, and cash flow statements over the useful life of the Project.
A detailed description of and the degree financial feasibility is dependent on:
Investment incentives;
Productivity incentives;
Loans and grants; and
Other Project authorities RINs value, tax credits, other credits, and subsidies that affect the Project.
Any constraints or limitations in the financial projections.
Ability of the business to achieve the projected income and cash flow.
Assessment of the cost accounting system.
Availability of short-term credit or other means to meet seasonal business costs.
Adequacy of raw materials and supplies.
Sensitivity analysis, including feedstock and energy costs and product and Byproduct prices.
Risks related to:
The Project;
Borrower financing plan;
The operational units; and
Tax issues.
(F) Management Feasibility
Borrower and/or management's previous experience concerning:
Production of Advanced Biofuel, and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemicals, as applicable;
Acquisition of feedstock;
Marketing and sale of off-take; and
The receipt of Federal financial assistance, including amount of funding, date received, purpose, and outcome.
Management plan for procurement of feedstock and labor, marketing of the off-take, and management succession.
Risks related to:
Borrower as a company (
e.g.,
development-stage);
Conflicts of Interest; and
Management strengths and weaknesses.
(G) Qualifications
A resume or statement of qualifications of the author and contributors of the Feasibility Study, including prior experience, must be submitted.
(f)
Business Plan.
The Lender must submit the Borrower's business plan that includes the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (10) of this section. Any or all of this information may be omitted if it is included in the Feasibility Study specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) Describe or provide an organizational chart of the Borrower's ownership structure and affiliation with other entities, if any. The names and a description of the relationship of the Borrower's parent, Affiliates, and subsidiaries. Identify local ownership.
(2) The Borrower's succession planning, addressing both ownership and management.
(3) The Borrower's experience and management experience.
(4) The products and services to be provided and the Borrower's business strategy.
(5) Possible vendors and models of major system components.
(6) The availability of the resources (
e.g.,
labor, raw materials, supplies) necessary to provide the planned products and services.
(7) Site location and its relation to product distribution (
e.g.,
rail lines or highways) and any land use or other permits necessary to operate the facility.
(8) The market for the product and its competition, including any and all competitive threats and advantages.
(9) Projected balance sheets, income and expense statements, and cash flow statements for a period of not less than three years of stabilized operation.
(10) A description of the proposed use of funds.
(g)
Scoring information.
The application must contain information in a format that is responsive to the scoring criteria specified in § 4279.266.
(h)
Intergovernmental consultation.
Intergovernmental consultation comments in accordance with 2 CFR part 415, subpart C or successor regulation.
(i)
Unique Entity Identifier (UEI).
For Borrowers other than individuals, a UEI, which can be obtained online at
https://sam.gov/.
(j)
Other information.
Any other information determined by the Agency to be necessary to evaluate the application.
(k)
Phase 2 application contents.
(1) Updates, as appropriate, to contents of application materials submitted in application phase 1.
(2) An appraisal conducted as specified under § 4279.244.
(3) A proposed Loan Agreement or a sample Loan Agreement with an attached list of the proposed Loan Agreement provisions as specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section.
(i) Prohibition against assuming liabilities or obligations of others.
(ii) Restriction on dividend payments.
(iii) Limitation on the purchase or sale of equipment and fixed assets.
(iv) Limitation on compensation of officers and owners.
(v) Minimum Working Capital or current ratio requirement.
(vi) Maximum debt-to-net worth ratio.
(vii) Restrictions concerning consolidations, mergers, or other circumstances.
(viii) Limitations on selling the business without the concurrence of the Lender.
(ix) Repayment and amortization of the loan.
(4) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(5) Under the direction of the Agency, an evaluation and rating of the total Project's indebtedness, without consideration for a government guarantee, from a nationally-recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO), as defined by the U.S. Security and Exchange Commission, for all Projects with total Eligible Project Costs of $25 million or more unless as otherwise specified by the Agency in a notice published in the
Federal Register.
The evaluation and rating must be in the form of an indicative private rating, private credit analysis, or comparable analysis report and include a rating in accordance with the NRSRO's credit rating scales and include a recovery analysis. An updated rating may be required at the Agency's discretion if changes are subsequently made to the Project including changes to any contracts and agreements or changes to loan terms and conditions.
(6) Lender's analysis and credit evaluation that conforms to § 4279.215 and must include the information specified in paragraphs (k)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) The credit reports of the Borrower, its principals, and any parent, Affiliate, or subsidiary as follows:
(A) Unless otherwise determined by the Agency, a personal credit report from an Agency-approved credit reporting company for individuals who are key employees of the Borrower, as determined by the Agency, and for individuals owning 20 percent or more interest in the Borrower or any owner with more than 10 percent ownership interest in the Borrower if there is no owner with more than 20 percent ownership interest in the Borrower, except
for when the Borrower is a corporation listed on a major stock exchange; and
(B) Commercial credit reports on the Borrower and any parent, Affiliate, and subsidiary firms.
(ii) Financial and sensitivity review using a financial modeling software program or a banking industry software analysis program with industry standards, when appropriate.
(7) Whether the Loan Note Guarantee is requested prior to construction or after completion of construction of the Project.
(8) The technical assessment must be completed by a qualified independent engineer and must demonstrate that the design, procurement, installation, startup, operation and maintenance of the Project will permit it to operate or perform as specified over its useful life in a reliable and a cost effective manner, and must identify what the useful life of the Project is. The technical assessment must also identify all necessary Project agreements, demonstrate that those agreements will be in place at or before the time of loan closing, and demonstrate that necessary Project equipment and services will be available over the useful life of the Project. The technical assessment must be based upon verifiable data and contain sufficient information and analysis so that a determination can be made on the technical feasibility of achieving the levels of income or production that are projected in the financial statements. All technical information provided must follow the format specified in paragraphs (k)(8)(i) through (ix) of this section. Supporting information may be submitted in other formats. Design drawings and process flow charts are required as exhibits. A discussion of a topic identified in paragraphs (k)(8)(i) through (ix) of this section is not necessary if the topic is not applicable to the specific Project. Questions identified in the Agency's technical review of the Project must be answered to the Agency's satisfaction before the application will be approved. All Projects require the services of an independent, third-party professional engineer.
(i)
Qualifications of Project team.
The Project team will vary according to the complexity and scale of the Project. The Project team must have demonstrated expertise in similar Advanced Biofuel and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemical, as applicable, technology development, engineering, installation, and maintenance. Identify Borrower's, including its principals', prior experience in bioenergy projects and the receipt of Federal financial assistance, including the amount of funding, date received, purpose, and outcome, for such projects. Authoritative evidence that Project team service providers have the necessary professional credentials or relevant experience to perform the required services for the development, construction, and Retrofitting, as applicable, of technology for producing Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals, if applicable, must be provided. In addition, authoritative evidence that vendors of proprietary components can provide necessary equipment and spare parts for the facility to operate over its useful life must be provided. The application must:
(A) Discuss the proposed Project delivery method. Such methods include a design-bid-build method, where a separate engineering firm may design the Project and prepare a request for bids and the successful bidder constructs the Project at the Borrower's risk, and a design -build method, often referred to as “turnkey,” where the Borrower establishes the specifications for the Project and secures the services of a developer who will design and build the Project at the developer's risk;
(B) Discuss the manufacturers of major components of Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemical technology equipment being considered in terms of the length of time in business and the number of units installed at the capacity and scale being considered;
(C) Discuss the Project team members' qualifications for engineering, designing, and installing similar projects, including any relevant certifications by recognized organizations or bodies. Provide a list of the same or similar projects designed, installed, or supplied and currently operating, with references if available; and
(D) Describe the facility operator's qualifications and experience for servicing, operating, and maintaining such equipment or projects. Provide a list of the same or similar projects designed, installed, or supplied and currently operating, with references if available.
(ii)
Agreements and permits.
The application must identify all necessary agreements and permits required for the Project and the status and schedule for securing those agreements and permits, including the items specified in paragraphs (k)(8)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.
(A) All facilities funded under this subpart must be installed in accordance with applicable local, State, and national codes and applicable local, State, and Federal regulations. Identify zoning and code requirements and necessary permits and the schedule for meeting those requirements and securing those permits.
(B) Identify licenses where required and the schedule for obtaining those licenses.
(C) Identify land use agreements required for the Project, the schedule for securing those agreements, and the term of those agreements.
(D) Identify any permits or agreements required for solid, liquid, and gaseous emissions or effluents and the schedule for securing those permits and agreements.
(E) Identify available component warranties for the specific Project location and size.
(F) Identify all environmental issues, including environmental compliance issues, associated with the Project.
(iii)
Resource assessment.
The application must provide adequate and appropriate evidence of the availability of the feedstocks required for the facility to operate as designed. Indicate the type and quantity of the feedstock, and discuss storage of the feedstock, where applicable, and competing uses for the feedstock. Indicate shipping or receiving methods and required infrastructure for shipping, and other appropriate transportation mechanisms including methods and systems to prevent the spread of invasive species. For proposed Projects with an established resource, provide a summary of the resource.
(iv)
Design and engineering.
The application must provide authoritative evidence that the facility will be designed and engineered so as to meet its intended purposes, will ensure public safety, and will comply with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards. Projects shall be engineered by a qualified entity. Each facility must be engineered as a complete, integrated facility. The engineering must be comprehensive, including site selection, systems and component selection, and systems monitoring equipment. All Projects funded under this subpart must be constructed by a qualified entity.
(A) The application must include a concise but complete description of the Project, including location of the Project; resource characteristics, including the kind and amount of feedstocks; facility specifications; kind, amount, and quality of the output; and monitoring equipment. Address performance on a monthly and annual basis. Describe the uses of or the market for the Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemical produced by the facility. Discuss the impact of reduced or interrupted feedstock availability on the facility's operations.
(B) The application must include:
(
1
) A description of the Project site that addresses issues such as site access, foundations, and backup equipment when applicable;
(
2
) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(
3
) Identification of any unique construction and installation issues.
(C) Sites must be controlled by the eligible Borrower for at least the financing term of the Loan Note Guarantee.
(v)
Project development schedule.
The application must describe each significant task, its beginning and end, and its relationship to the time needed to initiate and carry the Project through startup and shakedown. Provide a detailed description of the Project timeline including resource assessment, Project and site design, permits and agreements, equipment procurement, and Project construction from excavation through startup and shakedown.
(vi)
Equipment procurement.
The application must demonstrate that equipment required by the facility is available and can be procured and delivered within the proposed Project development schedule. Projects funded under this subpart may be constructed of components manufactured in more than one location. Provide a description of any unique equipment procurement issues such as scheduling and timing of component manufacture and delivery, ordering, warranties, shipping, receiving, and on-site storage or inventory.
(vii)
Equipment installation.
The application must provide a full description of the management of and plan for site development and systems installation, details regarding the scheduling of major installation equipment needed for Project construction, and a description of the startup and shakedown specification and process and the conditions required for startup and shakedown for each equipment item individually and for the facility as a whole.
(viii)
Operations and maintenance.
The application must provide the operations and maintenance requirements of the facility necessary for the facility to operate as designed over its useful life. The application must also include:
(A) Information regarding available facility and component warranties and availability of spare parts;
(B) A description of the routine operations and maintenance requirements of the proposed facility, including maintenance schedules for the mechanical, piping, and electrical systems and system monitoring and control requirements, as well as provision of information that supports expected useful life of the facility and timing of major component replacement or rebuilds;
(C) A discussion of the costs and labor associated with operating and maintaining the facility and plans for in-sourcing or outsourcing. A description of the opportunities for technology transfer for long-term Project operations and maintenance by a local entity or owner/operator; and
(D) Provision and discussion of the risk management plan for handling large, unanticipated failures of major components.
(ix)
Decommissioning.
A description of the decommissioning process, when the Project must be uninstalled or removed. A description of any issues, requirements, and costs for removal and disposal of the facility.
[80 FR 36425, June 24, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 11051, Mar. 2, 2016; 89 FR 34959, May 1, 2024]
§§ 4279.262-4279.264
[Reserved]
§ 4279.265
Guarantee application processing.
(a)
Eligibility determination.
Upon receipt of a complete Phase 1 application, the Agency will determine if the Borrower, Lender, and Project are eligible and if the Project is technically and economically feasible, as provided under paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) If the Borrower, Lender, or the Project is determined to be ineligible for any reason, the Agency will inform the Lender, in writing, of the reasons. No further evaluation of the application will occur.
(2) If the Agency determines it is unable to guarantee the loan, the Agency will inform the Lender in writing. Such notification will include the reasons for denial of the guarantee.
(b)
Technical and economic feasibility.
(1) The Agency's determination of a Project's technical and economic feasibility will be based on:
(i) The Agency's analysis of the technical report and Feasibility Study submitted in the application conducted by qualified independent third parties;
(ii) The Lenders credit evaluation; and
(iii) Other application materials.
(2) The Agency's determination of a Project's technical feasibility will be based on the technical report. In addition, prior to the issuance of the Conditional Commitment for a Project utilizing technology that does not have a history of successful utilization in a Commercial-scale operation of a Biorefinery that produces an Advanced biofuel, Renewable chemical, or Biobased product, evidence demonstrating 120 days of continuous, steady state production from an integrated demonstration unit must be provided by the Borrower to the Lender
and the Agency for review and determination of technical feasibility. Authoritative demonstration campaign results must be provided in 30-day intervals. The integrated demonstration unit must prove out the Project's ability to utilize Project-relevant biomass and produce Advanced biofuel at a yield and quality consistent with the design basis of the Project. The Borrower must provide to the Agency, for review and approval, sufficient information on the integrated campaign design so as to ensure operation duration, quality, and quantity specifications are met and incorporated into the final design criteria for the commercial facility.
(3) Projects determined by the Agency to be without technical or economic feasibility will not be selected for funding.
[80 FR 36425, June 24, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 29596, May 18, 2020]
§ 4279.266
Guarantee application scoring.
Using the evaluation criteria identified in this section, the Agency will score each eligible Biorefinery application that meets the minimum requirements for technical and economic feasibility. A maximum of 125 points is possible. The Agency will award points based on its review and analysis of all application materials. Clarifications for the scoring on Biobased Product Manufacturing applications will be made available by a notice published in the
Federal Register
.
(a) Whether the Borrower has established a market for the Advanced Biofuel and the Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals, as applicable. A maximum of 20 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1)
Degree of commitment of Off-Take Agreements.
A maximum of 6 points will be awarded.
(i) If the Borrower has signed Off-Take Agreements for purchase for greater than 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take, 6 points will be awarded.
(ii) If the Borrower has signed letters of intent to enter into Off-Take Agreements, or comparable documentation, for the purchase for greater than 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take, or combination of signed contracts or agreements and letters of intent or comparable documentation, 4 points will be awarded.
(iii) If the Borrower has signed letters of interest to enter into Off-Take Agreements, or comparable documentation, for the purchase for greater than 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take, or combination of signed Off-Take Agreements, letters of intent, letters of intent or comparable documentation, 2 points will be awarded.
(2)
Duration of Off-Take Agreements.
A maximum of 6 points will be awarded.
(i) If the Borrower commits to enter into Off-Take Agreements prior to loan closing for purchase for greater than or equal to 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take for the period not less than the loan term, 6 points will be awarded.
(ii) If the Borrower commits to enter into Off-Take Agreements prior to loan closing for purchase for greater than or equal to 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take for the period not less than five years but less than the term of the loan, 4 points will be awarded.
(iii) If the Borrower commits to enter into Off-Take Agreements prior to loan closing for purchase for greater than or equal to 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take for the period not less than one year but less than five years, 2 points will be awarded.
(3)
Financial strength of the off-take counterparty.
A maximum of 4 points will be awarded.
(i) If the Borrower commits to enter into Off-Take Agreements prior to loan closing for purchase for greater than or equal to 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take with an off-take counterparty with a corporate credit rating not less than AA, Aa2, or equivalent, 4 points will be awarded.
(ii) If the Borrower commits to enter into Off-Take Agreements prior to loan closing for purchase for greater than or equal to 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take with an off-take counterparty with a corporate credit rating less than AA, Aa2, or equivalent, but not less than A-, or A3, or equivalent, 2 points will be awarded.
(iii) If the Borrower commits to enter into Off-Take Agreements prior to loan closing for purchase for greater than or
equal to 50 percent of the dollar value of off-take with an off-take counterparty with a corporate credit rating less than A-, or A3, or equivalent, but not less than BBB-, or Baa3, or equivalent, 1 point will be awarded.
(4)
Revenue dependency on tax credits, carbon credits, or other Federal or State subsidies.
A maximum of 4 points will be awarded.
(i) If total of revenues from tax credits, carbon credits, or other Federal or State subsidies is less than or equal to 10 percent of the Project's total revenues on an annual basis, in the Borrower's base case of financial projections, 4 points will be awarded.
(ii) If total of revenues from tax credits, carbon credits, or other Federal or State subsidies is greater than 10 percent but less than or equal to 20 percent of the Project's total revenues on an annual basis, in the Borrower's base case of financial projections, 2 points will be awarded.
(iii) If total of revenues from tax credits, carbon credits, or other Federal or State subsidies is greater than 20 percent but less than or equal to 30 percent of the Project's total revenues on an annual basis, in the Borrower's base case of financial projections, 1 point will be awarded.
(b) Whether the area in which the Borrower proposes to place the Project, defined as the area that will supply the feedstock to the proposed Project, has any other similar facilities. A maximum of 5 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If the area that will supply the feedstock to the proposed Project does not have any other similar facilities, 5 points will be awarded.
(2) If there are other similar facilities located within the area that will supply the feedstock to the proposed Project, 0 points will be awarded.
(c) Whether the Borrower is proposing to use a feedstock or biobased output of Biorefineries not previously used in the production of Advanced Biofuels or Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals. A maximum of 10 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If the Borrower proposes to use a feedstock previously used in the production of Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemicals in a commercial facility, 0 points will be awarded.
(2) If the Borrower proposes to use a feedstock not previously used in production of Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Product including Renewable Chemicals in a commercial facility, 10 points will be awarded.
(d) Whether the Borrower is proposing to work with producer associations or cooperatives. A maximum of 5 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If at least 50 percent of the dollar value of feedstock to be used by the proposed Project will be supplied by producer associations and cooperatives, 5 points will be awarded.
(2) If at least 30 percent of the dollar value of feedstock to be used by the proposed Project will be supplied by producer associations and cooperatives, 3 points will be awarded.
(e) The level of financial participation by the Borrower, including support from non-Federal government sources and private sources. A maximum of 20 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If the sum of the loan amount requested and other direct Federal funding is less than or equal to 50 percent of total Eligible Project Cost, 20 points will be awarded.
(2) If the sum of the loan amount requested and other direct Federal funding is greater than 50 percent but less than or equal to 55 percent of total Eligible Project Cost, 16 points will be awarded.
(3) If the sum of the loan amount requested and other direct Federal funding is greater than 55 percent but less than or equal to 60 percent of total Eligible Project Cost, 12 points will be awarded.
(4) If the sum of the loan amount and other direct Federal funding is greater than 60 percent but less than or equal to 65 percent of total Eligible Project Cost, 8 points will be awarded.
(5) If the sum of the loan amount and other direct Federal funding is greater than 65 percent but less than or equal
to 70 percent of total Eligible Project Cost, 4 points will be awarded.
(f) Whether the Borrower has established that the adoption of the process proposed in the application will have a positive effect on three impact areas: resource conservation (
e.g.,
water, soil, forest), public health (
e.g.,
potable water, air quality), and the environment (
e.g.,
compliance with an applicable renewable fuel standard, greenhouse gases, emissions, particulate matter). A maximum of 10 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If process adoption will have a positive impact on any one of the three impact areas (resource conservation, public health, or the environment), 3 points will be awarded.
(2) If process adoption will have a positive impact on two of the three impact areas, 6 points will be awarded.
(3) If process adoption will have a positive impact on all three impact areas, 10 points will be awarded.
(4) If the Project proposes to use a feedstock that can be used for human or animal consumption, 5 points will be deducted from the score.
(g) Whether the Borrower can establish that, if adopted, the technology proposed in the application will not have any economically significant negative impacts on existing manufacturing plants or other facilities that use similar feedstocks or biobased outputs of Biorefineries. A maximum of 5 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If the Borrower has failed to establish, through an independent third-party Feasibility Study, that the production technology proposed in the application, if adopted, will not have any economically significant negative impacts on existing manufacturing plants or other facilities that use similar feedstocks, 0 points will be awarded.
(2) If the Borrower has established, through an independent third-party Feasibility Study, that the production technology proposed in the application, if adopted, will not have any economically significant negative impacts on existing manufacturing plants or other facilities that use similar feedstocks, 5 points will be awarded.
(3) If the feedstock is wood pellets, no points will be awarded under this criterion.
(h) The potential for Rural economic development. A maximum of 20 points will be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If the Project is located in a Rural Area, 5 points will be awarded.
(2) If the Project creates jobs through direct employment with an average wage that exceeds the County median household wages where the Project will be located, 5 points will be awarded.
(3) If the majority of feedstock to be utilized by the Project, on an annual basis, is harvested from the land, 10 points will be awarded.
(i) The level of local ownership of the facility proposed in the application. A maximum of 5 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If Local Owners have an ownership interest in the facility of more than 20 percent but less than or equal to 50 percent, 3 points will be awarded.
(2) If Local Owners have an ownership interest in the facility of more than 50 percent, 5 points will be awarded.
(j) Whether the Project can be replicated. A maximum of 10 points can be awarded. Points to be awarded will be determined as follows:
(1) If the Project can be commercially replicated regionally (
e.g.,
Northeast, Southwest, etc.), 5 points will be awarded.
(2) If the Project can be commercially replicated nationally, 10 points will be awarded.
(k) If the Project uses a particular technology, system, or process that is not currently operating at Commercial Scale as of October 1 of the fiscal year for which the funding is available, 5 points will be awarded.
(l) The Administrator can award up to a maximum of 10 bonus points:
(1) To ensure, to the extent practical, there is diversity in the types of Projects approved for loan guarantees to ensure as wide a range as possible technologies, products, and approaches are assisted in the Program portfolio; and
(2) To applications that promote partnerships and other activities that
assist in the development of new and emerging technologies for the development of Advanced Biofuels and Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals, so as to, as applicable, increase the energy independence of the United States or reduce our dependence on petroleum-based chemicals and products; promote resource conservation, public health, and the environment; diversify markets for agricultural and forestry products and agriculture waste material; and create jobs and enhance the economic development of the Rural economy. These partnerships and other activities will be identified in a
Federal Register
notice each fiscal year.
§ 4279.267
Selecting guarantee applications.
(a)
Allocation of budget authority.
In administering this Program's budgetary authority each fiscal year, the Agency will allocate up to, but no more, than 50 percent of its budgetary authority, excluding funding for Biobased Product Manufacturing Projects, to fund applications received by the end of the first application window, including those carried over from the previous application period. Any funds not obligated to support applications submitted by the end of the first application window will be available to support applications received by the end of the second window, including those carried over from the previous application period. The Agency, therefore, will have a minimum of 50 percent of each fiscal year's budgetary authority for this Program available to support applications received by the end of the second application window. Administrative procedures for the funding of Biobased Product Manufacturing Projects will be made available by a Notice published in the
Federal Register
.
(b)
Ranking of applications.
The Agency will rank all complete eligible applications to create a priority list of scored Phase 1 applications for the Program. Unless otherwise specified in a notice published in the
Federal Register,
the Agency will rank applications by approximately October 31 for complete and eligible applications received on or before October 1 and by approximately April 30 for complete and eligible applications received on or before April 1. All Phase 1 applications received on or before October 1 and April 1 will be ranked by the Agency and will be competed against the other applications received on or before such date.
(c)
Selection of applications for funding.
The Agency will invite applicants to submit Phase 2 applications based on the criteria specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The Agency will notify, in writing, Lenders whose applications have been selected.
(1)
Ranking.
The Agency will consider the score an application has received compared to the scores of other applications in the priority list created under paragraph (b) of this section, with highest scoring applications receiving first consideration for invitation to the phase 2 submittal. A minimum score of 55 points is required in order to be considered for a guarantee.
(2)
Availability of budgetary authority.
The Agency will consider the size of the request relative to the budgetary authority that remains available to the Program during the fiscal year.
(i) If there is insufficient budgetary authority during a particular funding period to select a higher scoring application, the Agency may elect to select the next highest scoring application for further processing. Before this occurs, the Agency will provide the Borrower of the higher scoring application the opportunity to reduce the amount of its request to the amount of budgetary authority available. If the Borrower agrees to lower its request, it must certify that the purposes of the Project can be met, and the Agency must determine the Project is financially feasible at the lower amount.
(ii) If the amount of funding required is greater than 25 percent of the Program's outstanding budgetary authority, the Agency may elect to select the next highest scoring application for further processing, provided the higher scoring Borrower is notified of this action and given an opportunity to revise their application and resubmit it for an amount less than or equal to 25 percent of the Program's outstanding budgetary authority.
(3)
Availability of other funding sources.
If other financial assistance is needed for the Project, the Agency will consider the availability of other funding sources. If the Lender cannot demonstrate that funds from these sources are available at the time of selecting applications for funding or potential funding, the Agency may instead select the next highest scoring application for further processing ahead of the higher scoring application.
(d)
Ranked applications not selected for phase 2.
A ranked application that is not invited to submit phase 2 in the application cycle in which it was submitted will be carried forward one additional application cycle, which may be in the next fiscal year. The Agency will notify the Lender in writing.
§§ 4279.268-4279.277
[Reserved]
§ 4279.278
Loan approval and obligating funds.
(a) Applications for loan guarantees may be approved as their Phase 2 applications are completed and approved. If an application has been selected for phase 2, but has not been approved because additional information is needed, the Agency will notify, in writing, the Lender of what information is needed, including a timeframe for the Lender to provide the information. If the Lender does not provide the information within the specified timeframe, the Agency will remove the application from further consideration and will so notify the Lender in writing.
(b) Upon approval of a loan guarantee application, the Agency will issue a Conditional Commitment to the Lender containing conditions under which a Loan Note Guarantee will be issued. The Agency will not issue a Conditional Commitment until the Agency has satisfactorily completed a Civil Rights Impact Analysis. The Conditional Commitment becomes null and void unless the conditions are accepted by the Lender and Borrower within 60 days from the date of issuance by USDA. If the conditions are not met or the Loan Note Guarantee is not issued by the Conditional Commitment expiration date, the Agency may extend the Conditional Commitment expiration date when requested by the Lender and only if there has been no Material Adverse Change in the Borrower's or Borrowers' financial condition since issuance of the Conditional Commitment.
(c) The Lender and Borrower may request changes to the Conditional Commitment. The Agency may negotiate with the Lender and the Borrower regarding any proposed changes to the Conditional Commitment. Any changes to the Conditional Commitment must be documented by written amendment to the Conditional Commitment. The changes must be for Good Cause and the Agency may deny, solely at is discretion, changes to the Conditional Commitment even if the change is otherwise in compliance with this subpart.
(d) The Borrower must comply with all Federal requirements then in effect for receiving Federal assistance.
§ 4279.279
Transfer of Lenders.
(a) The Agency may approve the substitution of a new eligible Lender in place of a former Lender who has been issued an outstanding Conditional Commitment when the Loan Note Guarantee has not yet been issued provided that there are no changes in the:
(1) Borrower's ownership or control, loan purposes, or scope of Project;
(2) Loan terms and conditions in the Conditional Commitment; and
(3) Loan Agreement.
(b) The Agency must determine that the new Lender is eligible in accordance with § 4279.208 prior to approving the substitution. The original Lender must provide the Agency with a letter stating the reasons it no longer desires to be a Lender for the Project. The substituted Lender must execute a new part B of Form 4279-1 and Lender's Agreement (unless a valid Lender's Agreement with the Agency already exists), and must complete a new Lender's analysis in accordance with § 4279.215. The new Lender may also be required to provide other updated application items outlined in § 4279.261(k).
§ 4279.280
Changes in Borrowers.
Any changes in Borrower ownership or organization prior to the issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee must meet the eligibility requirements of the Program and be approved by the Agency.
§ 4279.281
Conditions precedent to issuance of Loan Note Guarantee.
The Lender must not close the loan until all conditions of the Conditional Commitment are met or can be met. When loan closing plans are established, the Lender must notify the Agency in writing.
(a) Coincident with, or immediately after loan closing, the Lender must provide the following forms and documents to the Agency:
(1) An executed Lender's Agreement;
(2) Form RD 1980-19, “Guaranteed Loan Closing Report,” and appropriate guarantee fee;
(3) Copy of the executed Promissory Note(s);
(4) Copy of the executed Loan Agreement;
(5) Copy of the executed settlement statement and updated source and use statement including all Project funding;
(6) Original, executed Forms RD 4279-14, as appropriate;
(7) Borrower's loan closing balance sheet; and
(8) Any other documents required to comply with applicable law or required by the Conditional Commitment or the Agency.
(b) The Lender must provide their certification to each condition specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (16) of this section. The Lender may rely on certain written materials (including but not limited to certifications, evaluations, appraisals, financial statements and other reports) to be provided by the Borrower or other qualified third parties (including, among others, one or more independent engineers, appraisers, accountants, attorneys, consultants or other experts.) If the Lender is unable to provide any of the certifications required under this section, the Lender must provide an explanation satisfactory to the Agency as to why the Lender is unable to provide the certification. The Lender can request the guarantee prior to construction, but must still certify to all conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (16) of this section.
(1) If required, hazard, flood, liability, worker compensation, and life insurance are in effect.
(2) All truth-in-lending and equal credit opportunity requirements have been met.
(3) The loan has been properly closed, and the required security instruments have been properly executed, or will be promptly obtained on any property that cannot be immediately secured under State law.
(4) The Borrower has or will have marketable title to the Collateral, subject to the guaranteed loan and to any other exceptions approved in writing by the Agency.
(5) The loan proceeds have been or will be disbursed for purposes and in amounts consistent with the Conditional Commitment and the application submitted to the Agency.
(6) When required, personal or corporate guarantees have been obtained in accordance with § 4279.245.
(7) All requirements of the Conditional Commitment have been met.
(8) Lien priorities are consistent with the requirements of the Conditional Commitment. No claims or liens of laborers, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment, materialmen, or other parties have been filed against the Collateral and no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the Collateral when the security instruments are filed.
(9) There has been neither any Material Adverse Change in the Borrower's financial condition nor any other Material Adverse Change in the Borrower, for any reason, during the period of time from the Agency's issuance of the Conditional Commitment to issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee regardless of the cause or causes of the change and whether or not the change or causes of the change were within the Lender's or Borrower's control. The Lender must address any assumptions or reservations in this certification and must address all Material Adverse Changes of the Borrower, any parent, Affiliate, or subsidiary of the Borrower, and guarantors.
(10) Neither the Lender nor any of the Lender's officers has an ownership interest in the Borrower or is an officer or director of the Borrower, and neither the Borrower nor its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners
have more than a 5 percent ownership interest in the Lender.
(11) The Loan Agreement includes all Borrower compliance measures identified in the Agency's environmental review process for avoiding or reducing adverse environmental impacts of the Project's construction or operation.
(12) For loans exceeding $150,000, the Lender has certified its compliance with the Anti-Lobby Act (18 U.S.C. 1913). Also, if any funds have been, or will be, paid to any Person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to guarantee a loan, the Lender must completely disclose such lobbying activities in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 1352.
(13) Where applicable, the Lender must certify that the Borrower has obtained:
(i) A legal opinion relative to the title to rights-of-way and easements. Lenders are responsible for ensuring that Borrowers have obtained valid, continuous, and adequate rights-of-way and easements needed for the construction, operation and maintenance of a facility; and
(ii) A title opinion or title insurance showing ownership of the land and all mortgages or other lien defects, restrictions, or encumbrances, if any. It is the responsibility of the Lender to ensure that the Borrower has obtained and recorded such releases, consents, or subordinations to such property rights from holders of outstanding liens or other instruments as may be necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of the facility and to provide the required security. For example, when a site is for utility-type facilities (such as a gas distribution system) and the Lender and Borrower are able to obtain only a right-of-way or easement on such site rather than a fee simple title, such a title opinion must be provided.
(14) Each Borrower shall certify to the Lender that all laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of construction work financed in whole or in part with guaranteed loan funds under this subpart shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with 40 U.S.C. 3141 through 3144, 3146, and 3147. Awards under this subpart are further subject to the relevant regulations contained in Title 29 of the CFR.
(15) The Lender certifies that it has reviewed all contract documents and verified compliance with 40 U.S.C. 3141 through 3144, 3146, and 3147 and Title 29 of the CFR. The Lender will certify that the same process will be completed for all future contracts and any changes to existing contracts.
(16) The Lender certifies that the proposed facility complies with all Federal, State, and local laws and regulatory rules that are in existence and that affect the Project, the Borrower, or Lender activities.
(c) The Agency may, at its discretion, request copies of loan documents for its file.
(d) When the Agency is satisfied that all conditions for the guarantee have been met, the Agency will issue the Loan Note Guarantee(s) and the documents identified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate.
(1)
Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
In the event the Lender uses the single Promissory Note option and assigns the guaranteed portion of the loan to a Holder, the Lender, Holder, and the Agency will execute the Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
(2)
Certificate of Incumbency.
If requested by the Lender, the Agency will provide the Lender with a certification on Form 4279-7, “Certificate of Incumbency and Signature,” of the signature and title of the Agency official who signs the Loan Note Guarantee, Lender's Agreement, and Assignment Guarantee Agreement.
§ 4279.282
[Reserved]
§ 4279.283
Refusal to execute Loan Note Guarantee.
If the Agency determines that it cannot execute the Loan Note Guarantee, the Agency will inform the Lender, in writing, of the reasons and give the Lender a reasonable period within
which to satisfy the objections. If the Lender satisfies the objections within the time allowed, the Agency will issue the Loan Note Guarantee. If the Lender requests additional time in writing and within the period allowed, the Agency may grant the request.
§§ 4279.284-4279.289
[Reserved]
§ 4279.290
Requirements after Project construction.
Once the Project has been constructed, the Lender must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) Provide the Agency annual reports from the Borrower commencing the first full calendar year following the year in which Project construction was completed and continuing for the life of the guaranteed loan. The Borrower's reports will include, but not be limited to, the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8), as applicable, of this section.
(1) The actual amount of Advanced Biofuels, Biobased Products including Renewable Chemicals, and Byproducts produced.
(2) If applicable, documentation that identified health or sanitation problems have been solved.
(3) A summary of the cost of operating and maintaining the facility.
(4) A description of any maintenance or operational problems associated with the facility.
(5) Certification that the Project is and has been in compliance with all applicable State and Federal environmental laws and regulations.
(6) The number of jobs created.
(7) A description of the status of the Project's feedstock including, but not limited to, the feedstock being used, outstanding feedstock contracts, feedstock changes and interruptions, and quality of the feedstock.
(8) The results of the annual inspections conducted under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) For the life of the guaranteed loan, conduct annual inspections.
§§ 4279.291-4279.299
[Reserved]
§ 4279.300
OMB control number.
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, the information collection requirements contained in the subsequent interim rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under OMB control number 0570-0065 for approval. A person is not required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
Pt. 4280

# PART 4280—LOANS AND GRANTS

# Subpart A—Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Programs
Sec.
4280.1
Purpose.
4280.2
Policy.
4280.3
Definitions.
4280.4-4280.12
[Reserved]
4280.13
Applicant eligibility.
4280.14
[Reserved]
4280.15
Ultimate Recipient Projects eligible for Rural Economic Development Loan funding.
4280.16
REDL and REDG Loan terms.
4280.17
Additional REDL terms.
4280.18
[Reserved]
4280.19
REDG Grants.
4280.20
[Reserved]
4280.21
Eligible REDG initial Ultimate Recipients and Projects.
4280.22
[Reserved]
4280.23
Requirements for lending from Revolving Loan Fund.
4280.24
Revolved funds.
4280.25
Revolving Loan Fund Plan.
4280.26
Administration and operation of the Revolving Loan Fund.
4280.27
Ineligible purposes.
4280.28
[Reserved]
4280.29
Supplemental financing required for the Ultimate Recipient Project.
4280.30
Restrictions on the use of REDL or REDG funds.
4280.31-4280.35
[Reserved]
4280.36
Other laws that contain compliance requirements for these Programs.
4280.37
Application forms and filing dates.
4280.38
Maximum amount of loans and Grants.
4280.39
Contents of an application.
4280.40
[Reserved]
4280.41
Environmental review of the application.
4280.42
Application evaluation and selection.
4280.43
Discretionary points.
4280.44
Limitation on the number of loans or Grants to an Intermediary.
4280.45-4280.46
[Reserved]
4280.47
Non-selection of applications.
4280.48
Post-selection period.
4280.49
[Reserved]
4280.50
Disbursement of Zero-Interest Loan funds.
4280.51-4280.52
[Reserved]
4280.53
Loan payments.
4280.54
Construction procurement requirements.
4280.55
Monitoring responsibilities.
4280.56
Submission of reports and audits.
4280.57-4280.61
[Reserved]
4280.62
Appeals.
4280.63
Exception authority.
4280.64-4280.99
[Reserved]
4280.100
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Rural Energy for America Program General
4280.101
Purpose.
4280.102
Organization of subpart.
4280.103
Definitions.
4280.104
Exception authority.
4280.105
Review or appeal rights.
4280.106
Conflict of interest.
4280.107
[Reserved]
4280.108
U.S. Department of Agriculture departmental regulations and laws that contain other compliance requirements.
4280.109
Ineligible applicants, grantees, and owners.
4280.110
General applicant, application, and funding provisions.
4280.111
Notifications.

# Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
4280.112
Applicant eligibility.
4280.113
Project eligibility.
4280.114
Ineligible projects.
4280.115
RES and EEI grant funding.
4280.116
Grant applications—general.
4280.117
Determination of technical merit.
4280.118
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs $200,000 and greater.
4280.119
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
4280.120
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less.
4280.121
Scoring RES and EEI grant applications.
4280.122
Selecting RES and EEI grant applications for award.
4280.123
Awarding and administering RES and EEI grants.
4280.124
Servicing RES and EEI grants.
4280.125
Construction planning and performing development.
4280.126-4280.136
[Reserved]

# Combined Funding for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements
4280.137
Combined grant and guaranteed loan funding requirements.
4280.138-4280.148
[Reserved]

# Energy Audit and Renewable Energy Development Assistance Grants
4280.149
Applicant eligibility.
4280.150
Project eligibility.
4280.151
Ineligible projects.
4280.152
Grant funding for EA and REDA.
4280.153
EA and REDA grant applications—content.
4280.154
Evaluation of EA and REDA grant applications.
4280.155
Scoring EA and REDA grant applications.
4280.156
Selecting EA and REDA grant applications for award.
4280.157
[Reserved]
4280.158
Awarding and administering EA and REDA grants.
4280.159
Servicing EA and REDA grants.
4280.160-4280.165
[Reserved]
4280.166
OMB control number.
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 4280—Technical Reports for Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Projects
Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 4280—Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of Less Than $200,000, but More Than $80,000
Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 4280—Technical Reports for Renewable Energy System (RES) Projects With Total Project Costs of $200,000 and Greater
Appendix D to Subpart B of Part 4280—Contents of Feasibility Study
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program
4280.301
Purpose and scope.
4280.302
Definitions and abbreviations.
4280.303
Exception authority.
4280.304
Review or appeal rights and administrative concerns.
4280.305
Nondiscrimination and compliance with other Federal laws.
4280.306
Forms, regulations, and instructions.
4280.307-4280.309
[Reserved]
4280.310
Program requirements for MDOs.
4280.311
Loan provisions for Agency loans to microlenders.
4280.312
Loan approval and closing.
4280.313
Grant provisions.
4280.314
[Reserved]
4280.315
MDO application and submission information.
4280.316
Application scoring.
4280.317
Selection of applications for funding.
4280.318-4280.319
[Reserved]
4280.320
Grant administration.
4280.321
Grant and loan servicing.
4280.322
Loans from the microlenders to the microentrepreneurs.
4280.323
Ineligible microloan purposes and uses.
4280.324-4280.399
[Reserved]
4280.400
OMB control number.

# Subpart E—Rural Business Development Grants

# General
4280.401
Purpose.
4280.402
[Reserved]
4280.403
Definitions.
4280.404
Exception authority.
4280.405
Review or appeal rights.
4280.406
Conflict of interest.
4280.407
Statute and regulation references.
4280.408
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) departmental regulations and laws that contain other compliance requirements.
4280.409
[Reserved]
4280.410
Other laws and regulations that contain compliance requirements for this program.
4280.411
Forms, guides, and attachments.
4280.412-4280.414
[Reserved]

# Rural Business Development Grants
4280.415
Rural Business Development Grants.

# Eligibility
4280.416
Applicant eligibility.
4280.417
Project eligibility.
4280.418-4280.420
[Reserved]

# Funding Provisions
4280.421
Term requirement.
4280.422
Joint funding.
4280.423
Ineligible uses of grant funds.
4280.424-4280.426
[Reserved]

# Applying for a Grant
4280.427
Application.
4280.428
Strategic economic and community development.
4280.429
[Reserved]
4280.430
Notification of decision.
4280.431-4280.433
[Reserved]

# Processing and Scoring Application
4280.434
General processing and scoring provisions.
4280.435
Scoring criteria.
4280.436-4280.438
[Reserved]

# Grant Awards and Agreements
4280.439
Grant awards and agreements.
4280.440-4280.442
[Reserved]

# Post Award Activities and Requirements
4280.443
Grant monitoring and servicing.
4280.444-4280.447
[Reserved]
4280.448
Transfers and assumptions.
4280.449-4280.499
[Reserved]
4280.500
OMB control number.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1989(a), 7 U.S.C. 2008s.

# Source:
70 FR 41303, July 18, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Programs

# Source:
72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4280.1
Purpose.
The Rural Economic Development Loan (REDL) and Grant (REDG) Programs provide financing to eligible Rural Utilities Service (RUS) electric or telecommunications borrowers (Intermediaries) to promote rural economic development and job creation projects.
§ 4280.2
Policy.
(a)
REDL Program.
REDL Zero-Interest Loans are made to Intermediaries, to relend, at a zero-interest rate, to Ultimate Recipients. Ultimate Recipients are responsible for repayment to the Intermediary. The Intermediary must transmit Ultimate Recipient loan repayments to Rural Development.
(b)
REDG Program.
Grants are made to Intermediaries to establish Revolving Loan Funds. REDG Zero-Interest Loans are made by the Intermediary from the Revolving Loan Fund to Ultimate Recipients for the purpose of financing specific, approved Projects. Ultimate Recipients are responsible for repayment to the Intermediary. The Ultimate Recipient's loan repayments are to be retained in the Revolving Loan Fund, which is maintained by the Intermediary, to finance other rural economic development Projects. Only the initial loan made by the Intermediary from the Revolving Loan Fund has to be at zero interest.
§ 4280.3
Definitions.
The following definitions are applicable to this subpart:
Advanced Telecommunications.
Using communications equipment for purposes, such as the simultaneous transmission of images and voice or the
electronic transmission of data between multiple sites that do not consist primarily of providing local exchange voice or other routine communications.
Agricultural Production.
The cultivation, production, growing, raising, feeding, housing, breeding, hatching, or managing of crops, plants, animals, fish, or birds, either for fiber, food for human consumption, or livestock feed.
Business Incubator.
A facility in which small businesses can share premises, support staff, computers, software or hardware, telecommunications terminal equipment, machinery, janitorial services, utilities, or other overhead expenses, and where such businesses can receive Technical Assistance, financial advice, business planning services or other support.
Community Facilities Project.
An eligible community facility under the Community Facility Direct or Guaranteed programs.
Conflict of interest.
A situation in which a person or entity has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that make it difficult for the person or business to act impartially. Regarding use of both grant and matching funds, Federal procurement standards prohibit transactions that involve a real or apparent conflict of interest for owners, employees, officers, agents, their immediate family members, partners, or an organization which is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, having a financial or other interest in or tangible personal benefit from the outcome of the project; or that restrict open and free competition for unrestrained trade. Specifically, project funds may not be used for services or goods going to, or coming from, a person or entity with a real or apparent conflict of interest, including, but not limited to, owner(s) and their immediate family members.
Cushion of Credit.
The amount contributed by the Intermediary pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 940c.
Direct Job.
A job that is created or saved by an Ultimate Recipient employer as a result of funding received from these Programs.
Established Operation.
An entity that has engaged in the nature of the Project for more than one year.
Full-Time Job.
A job for which a worker is scheduled to work 35 hours per week, or more, on a regular basis.
Grant.
For the REDG Program only; a transfer of monies other than a loan, from Rural Development to an Intermediary for specific use in funding a Revolving Loan Fund from which loans are made to Ultimate Recipients. Grant funds must be repaid by the Intermediary to Rural Development in the event the Fund is unused for more than one year, misused, no longer needed for its intended purposes, or the Grant is terminated.
Independent Provider.
An entity or individual, other than the Intermediary or the Ultimate Recipient that is not owned by a subsidiary or an affiliate of the Intermediary or Ultimate Recipient or would otherwise have an interest in the Intermediary or Ultimate Recipient that would be a conflict of interest or have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
Indirect Job.
A job that is created or saved as a result of a funded Project, but is not with the Ultimate Recipient.
Infrastructure.
Facilities required to support private sector economic activity such as: Highways, streets, roads, and bridges; public transit; water supply; wastewater treatment; water resources; solid waste; and hazardous waste services.
Intermediary.
An entity that is identified by RUS as an eligible borrower under the Rural Electrification Act and obtains a REDG Grant or a REDL Loan.
Part-Time Job.
A job for which a worker is scheduled to work less than 35 hours per week, on a regular basis.
Programs.
The Rural Economic Development Loan (REDL) and the Rural Economic Development Grant (REDG) Programs.
Project.
The facility, equipment, or activity of the Ultimate Recipient that is funded under one of the Programs.
REDG.
The Rural Economic Development Grant Program.
REDL.
The Rural Economic Development Loan Program.
Revolving Loan Fund (or Fund).
A revolving loan fund that is created with
Grant funds and the Intermediary's supplemental contribution under the REDG Program that makes loans and uses the loan repayments and interest earnings to make subsequent loans until the Fund is terminated.
Revolving Loan Fund Plan.
A plan developed by the Intermediary and approved by Rural Development that governs the use of the Revolving Loan Fund. The plan must at least include a detailed explanation of the Intermediary's Fund administration policies and procedures and planned Fund use after the funds in the Revolving Loan Fund have revolved. Fund administration policies and procedures must at least include information regarding the review and approval of loans from the Fund.
Rural area.
This information will be taken from the most recent census data. Any area other than:
(1) A city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants;
(2) The urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to such a city or town; and
(3) Which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I).
Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBS).
The Rural Business-Cooperative Service, an agency within the Rural Development mission area of the USDA.
Rural Development.
For purposes of this regulation, The Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBS), an Agency of the United States Department of Agriculture, or a successor Agency, will be referred to as Rural Development.
Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
The Rural Utilities Service, an Agency within the Rural Development mission area of the USDA.
Seasonal Job.
A job whether Part-Time or Full-Time that begins and ends in accordance with a specified time period of less than a year and generally within a range less than four months.
Start-Up Venture(s).
An entity that has engaged in the nature of the Project for less than one year. An entity that has operated in excess of one year, but which is about to enter into a new line of business, would be considered a Start-Up Venture.
State.
Any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Technical Assistance.
Managerial, financial and operational analysis and consultation by Independent Providers to assist Project owners in identifying and evaluating problems or potential problems and to provide training that enables Project owners to successfully implement, manage, operate and maintain viable Projects.
Ultimate Recipient.
An entity or individual that receives a loan from an Intermediary. The Ultimate Recipient may be a for profit or not-for-profit entity such as, but not limited to, a sole proprietorship, a corporation, a cooperative, a partnership, or a Limited Liability Company. The Ultimate Recipient may also be a public body, such as, but not limited to, a political subdivision of a State or locality, or a Federally-recognized Indian tribe.
Uniform Act.
The Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655).
USDA.
The United States Department of Agriculture.
Zero-Interest Loan.
A loan made by the Intermediary to the Ultimate Recipient with no interest and which will be repaid to the Intermediary by the Ultimate Recipient.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 9913, Feb. 24, 2015; 80 FR 15885, Mar. 26, 2015; 87 FR 38644, June 29, 2022]
§§ 4280.4-4280.12
[Reserved]
§ 4280.13
Applicant eligibility.
Applicants that are not delinquent on any Federal debt or otherwise disqualified from participation in these Programs are eligible to apply. An applicant must be eligible under 7 U.S.C. 940c.
§ 4280.14
[Reserved]
§ 4280.15
Ultimate Recipient Projects eligible for Rural Economic Development Loan funding.
An Intermediary may receive REDL funds only when it has a pre-approved Ultimate Recipient and Project that have an immediate need for the Zero-Interest Loan. REDL funds may only be used by the Intermediary to make a Zero-Interest Loan to the Ultimate Recipient to finance financially viable economic development or job creation Projects in a Rural Area. Funds may only be used to provide the following assistance:
(a) Start-Up Venture costs, including, but not limited to financing fixed assets such as real estate, buildings (new or existing), equipment, or working capital;
(b) Business expansion;
(c) Business Incubators;
(d) Technical Assistance;
(e) Project feasibility studies;
(f) Advanced Telecommunications services and computer networks for medical, educational, and job training services;
(g) Other Projects eligible under § 4280.21; or
(h) Community Facilities Projects.
(i) A borrower is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this subpart to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR part 1980, subpart M.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 57085, Sept. 15, 2020]
§ 4280.16
REDL and REDG Loan terms.
REDL and REDG loans made by the Intermediary are governed by the following terms:
(a) The maximum term of a loan is 10 years, including any principal deferment period. The Intermediary may choose a shorter term if desired.
(b) Deferments on Zero-Interest Loans will automatically be granted by Rural Development upon request of the Intermediary as follows:
(1) A deferral for up to 1 year for Projects involving an Established Operation; or
(2) A deferral for up to 2 years for Projects involving a Start-Up venture or a Community Facilities Project whether or not such Project also receives funding under USDA Community Facilities funding programs.
(c) The Intermediary must provide the Ultimate Recipient with the same loan terms as the Intermediary receives from Rural Development.
(d) The Intermediary is solely responsible for the financial approval of Fund loans and all other Fund decisions and actions.
§ 4280.17
Additional REDL terms.
(a) The Intermediary is responsible for fully repaying the Zero-Interest Loan to RBS even if the Ultimate Recipient does not repay the Intermediary.
(b) The Intermediary is responsible for remitting any partial or full payment to RBS at the time the Ultimate Recipient pays the Intermediary.
(c) Unless deferred pursuant to § 4280.16(b) of this subpart, loan payments to Rural Development under the REDL Program are due monthly.
(d) If the Intermediary does not have an outstanding loan with RUS, the Intermediary must immediately provide, as security for any REDL loan it receives, a Rural Development-approved irrevocable letter of credit that remains in effect until the loan is repaid.
§ 4280.18
[Reserved]
§ 4280.19
REDG Grants.
Intermediaries receiving Grants must partially finance a Revolving Loan Fund that the Intermediary will operate and administer, by providing supplemental funds of at least 20 percent of the Grant. Grants are subject to 2 CFR parts 200, 400, 415, 417, 418, 421 as applicable.
[79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 4280.20
[Reserved]
§ 4280.21
Eligible REDG Ultimate Recipients and Projects.
The Intermediary may only make loans from the Revolving Loan Fund to entities located in a Rural area of a State. Eligible entities are as follows:
(a) Non-profit entities, public bodies, or Federally-recognized Indian tribes Ultimate Recipients for:
(1) Community development or Community Facility Projects that:
(i) will create or save employment; and
(ii) are open to and serve all Rural residents, and are owned by the Ultimate Recipient;
(2) Business Incubators;
(3) Facilities and equipment to provide education and training to residents of Rural Areas that will facilitate economic development;
(4) Facilities and equipment to provide medical care to residents of Rural Areas. Equipment and facilities may be funded to enable eligible entities to provide medical training and related professional health care skills to rural health care providers;
(5) Projects that utilize Advanced Telecommunications or computer networks to facilitate medical or educational services or job training; or
(6) Project feasibility studies and Technical Assistance. A qualified Independent Provider must perform feasibility studies or Technical Assistance.
(b) For-profit Ultimate Recipients for Projects under paragraphs (a)(3), (4), (5), or (6) of this section.
§ 4280.22
[Reserved]
§ 4280.23
Requirements for lending from Revolving Loan Fund.
(a)
Supplemental contribution.
The Intermediary must establish a Revolving Loan Fund and contribute an amount equal to at least 20 percent of the Grant. The supplemental contribution must come from Intermediary's funds which may not be from other Federal Grants, unless permitted by law.
(b)
Use of supplemental contribution.
The Intermediary's contribution will only be used to make REDG loans and not other investment purposes. The Intermediary's contribution must remain a permanent part of the Revolving Loan Fund until the Fund is terminated.
(c)
REDG Zero-Interest Loan Requirements.
The Fund is made up of Rural Development and Intermediary contributions and must be loaned in accordance with one of the following 2 options:
(1) The contribution may be used to fund the same Project that Rural Development is funding. The interest rate on that portion of the financing using Rural Development funds will be at zero percent. The interest rate on that portion of the financing using the Intermediary's contribution may be greater than zero percent but must be less than, or equal to, the prevailing prime rate. Using this option, loan security and recovery of loan losses must provide for the pro rata recovery and distribution between the Intermediary and Rural Development based on the respective amounts of each contribution to the total loan amount for the Project.
(2) The Intermediary's contribution may be used to fund Projects separate from the Project financed with Rural Development funds, provided that the Project is eligible in accordance with § 4280.21.
(3) Whether the Intermediary chooses the option under paragraph (c)(1) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section, its contribution must be used to fund an eligible Project within 3 years from the date of the Grant agreement. If the Intermediary fails to use its contribution within this 3-year period, Rural Development will terminate the Grant.
(d)
Intermediary's supplemental funds.
Once revolved, monies from the Fund may be loaned at an interest rate called for in the Revolving Loan Fund Plan, not to exceed the prevailing prime rate.
(e)
Eligible purposes only.
Until the total amount in the Fund has been loaned, all loans must be made for eligible purposes as stated in § 4280.21. After the Fund has been loaned, in accordance with § 4280.21 of this subpart, the Intermediary shall make loans to finance rural economic development purposes in accordance with the Revolving Loan Fund Plan. All loan repayments, including interest earned, must be deposited into the Fund.
(f)
Termination for cause.
Rural Development will terminate the Fund and require repayment of the Grant funds if Rural Development determines that the Fund is not being operated according to the approved Revolving Loan
Fund Plan, this subpart, or for other good cause determined by Rural Development, such as questionable prepayment of initial loans. As applicable, Rural Development will follow remedies for noncompliance, closeout and post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities in accordance with 2 CFR 200.338-200.344 as codified by 2 CFR 400.1.
(g) All REDG Loans must be made to Rural Ultimate Recipients.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 4280.24
Revolved funds.
Rural Development and the Intermediary's supplemental funds will be considered revolved after they have been loaned to Ultimate Recipients and subsequently repaid. Loans made from revolved funds will not require prior approval of Rural Development for creditworthiness or environmental clearance purposes. All other Federal compliance requirements, including those in this subpart, remain in effect.
§ 4280.25
Revolving Loan Fund Plan.
Each REDG Intermediary must adopt a Rural Development-approved plan that specifies that:
(a) The initial loan made from the Fund will be at zero percent interest and have a maximum term of 10 years;
(b) Loans made from loan repayments may carry an interest rate less than, or equal to, the prevailing prime rate. The Intermediary determines repayment terms and security arrangements on these loans.
(c) Loans made from repayments of REDG loans must be for eligible Program purposes;
(d) The Intermediary is solely responsible for the financial approval of Fund loans and all other Fund decisions and actions; and
(e) No changes will be made to a Rural Development-approved Revolving Loan Fund Plan without the prior written approval of Rural Development.
§ 4280.26
Administration and operation of the Revolving Loan Fund.
(a) The Intermediary will operate and administer the Revolving Loan Fund. The Intermediary may contract with a third party for administrative services regarding the Fund. However, the Intermediary must permanently retain all Project review, approval, and monitoring authority and responsibility. This authority and responsibility cannot be delegated to any other person or entity.
(b) Up to 10 percent of Rural Development Grant funds may be applied toward operating expenses over the life of the Fund. Operating expenses include the costs of administering the Fund and Technical Assistance provided to Project owners by Independent Providers.
(c) In cases where the Intermediary uses its supplemental contribution to the Revolving Loan Fund for a Project other than the Project that resulted in the Intermediary being awarded the Grant, the loan terms must not exceed 10 years and the interest rate must be less than, or equal to, the prevailing prime rate.
§ 4280.27
Ineligible purposes.
Zero-Interest Loans may not be used:
(a) For activities that would adversely affect the environment, or activities that limit the choice of reasonable alternatives prior to satisfying Rural Development environmental requirements;
(b) To pay off or refinance any existing indebtedness or costs of the Project that were incurred prior to Rural Development receipt of the Intermediary's completed application;
(c) For any electric or telecommunications purpose or for the Intermediary's electric or telecommunications operations, for affiliated operations of the Intermediary, or for the benefit of other Intermediaries or their affiliated operations, except those purposes contained in § 4280.15(f);
(d) To pay the salaries of any employee or owner of the Intermediary, its subsidiaries, or affiliates, except for salaries incurred in administering a Revolving Loan Fund established under the REDG Program;
(e) For community antenna or cable television systems or facilities;
(f) For residential purposes such as residential dwellings and land sites; facilities to provide entertainment television; to transfer property between
owners without making improvements that will promote or sustain economic development in Rural Areas; or for personal, non-business related vehicles;
(g) Where there is directly or indirectly a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest in the Project; for Intermediaries this would include a situation in which the Intermediary, its officers, managers, Board of Directors, employees, their spouses, children, or close relatives, have a financial or ownership interest in the Project being funded, including its construction or development;
(h) For any purpose when receipt of loan funds is conditioned upon the requirement that the Ultimate Recipient acquire electric or telecommunications service from the Intermediary or its affiliates;
(i) For any gambling activity;
(j) For a Project that would result in the transfer of existing employment or business activity more than 25 miles from its existing location;
(k) For proposed Projects located in areas covered by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3501-3510);
(l) For any illegal activity or any activity involving prostitution;
(m) For Agricultural Production, except where the Project is a farmer-owned cooperative or similar organization where the benefits of the Project are passed on to the farmer-owners, and the Agricultural Production is part of an integrated business that processes the agricultural products, and the Agricultural Production portion of the loan will not exceed 50% of the loan amount;
(n) For any pass-through Grant funding activity (a Grant by the Intermediary to the Ultimate Recipient);
(o) Provision of only local exchange voice telephone service; or
(p) for any other purpose announced in a notice by Rural Development. This will not affect Grants that have already been awarded.
§ 4280.28
[Reserved]
§ 4280.29
Supplemental financing required for the Ultimate Recipient Project.
(a) For REDL loans, either the Ultimate Recipient or the Intermediary must provide supplemental funds for the Project equal to at least 20 percent of the loan to the Intermediary. For REDG grants, the Intermediary must provide supplemental funds, to capitalize the Revolving Loan Fund, equal to at least 20 percent of the Grant to the Intermediary.
(b) Funds provided by the Ultimate Recipient must be:
(1) Cash or its equivalent;
(2) Provided after Rural Development receives the completed application; and
(3) Disbursed for an eligible Project within a three year period that begins on the day the Intermediary signs the Grant agreement.
(c) Satisfactory evidence of the Ultimate Recipient's funds must be provided to Rural Development before it will advance any funds to the Intermediary.
§ 4280.30
Restrictions on the use of REDL or REDG funds.
(a)
Conflict of interest.
The Intermediary must not own or manage any Ultimate Recipient Project, unless the Project is acquired as a result of servicing a loan made from the Revolving Loan Fund. Conflicts of interest and all appearances of a conflict of interest are not permitted. The intermediary must also disclose in writing any potential conflicts of interest to the USDA awarding agency and maintain written standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest, including organizational conflicts of interest in accordance with 2 CFR 400.2(b).
(b)
Fees.
The Intermediary may charge reasonable loan servicing fees, which are limited to one percent per year of the principal amount outstanding on the loan; reasonable professional service fees that are customary for the service being provided and in accordance with any standard fee schedules that have been established for the service; and reasonable expenses the Intermediary has incurred from Independent Providers.
(c)
Interest earnings.
Any interest earned by the Intermediary on advances of Rural Development REDG or REDL funds prior to the disbursement for the Project, must be returned to Rural Development.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014]
§§ 4280.31-4280.35
[Reserved]
§ 4280.36
Other laws that contain compliance requirements for these Programs.
(a)
Equal employment opportunity.
For all construction contracts and Grants in excess of $10,000, the contractor must comply with Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 11375, and as supplemented by applicable Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR part 60). The applicant is responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with these requirements.
(b)
Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.
Rural Development will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscriminatory requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and 7 CFR part 15d, conducted by USDA. Rural Development will not discriminate against applicants on the bases of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to contract); to the fact that all or part of the applicant's income derives from public assistance program; or to the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act.
(c)
Civil rights compliance.
Recipients of Grants must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. This includes collection and maintenance of data on the race, sex, and national origin of the recipient's membership/ownership and employees. These data must be available to conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR part 1901 subpart E, § 1901.204. Initial compliance reviews will be conducted with the Intermediary when Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement,” is signed. For each loan or Grant an Intermediary receives, a new Form RD 400-4 must be completed. Each Ultimate Recipient must go through the same pre-award compliance review process and must also sign Form RD 400-4. For loans and Grants, a pre-award review is required before loan or Grant approval or any disbursement of funds. For Intermediaries, a post-award compliance review is required 90 days after closing the loan or Grant. This review is not required for Ultimate Recipients. Subsequent compliance reviews will be conducted 3 years from the date the post-award compliance review is completed for Intermediaries and 3 years from the date the pre-award compliance review is completed for Ultimate Recipients. Where Grant funds are used for a Revolving Loan Fund, compliance reviews are required for the Intermediaries for as long as the Fund is in operation. For Ultimate Recipients, compliance reviews are conducted until the loan is repaid to the Fund.
(d)
Architectural barriers.
All facilities financed with Zero-Interest Loans that are open to the public or in which persons may be employed or reside must be designed, constructed, or altered to be readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons. Standards for these facilities must comply with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157) and the “Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards”, (41 CFR part 101-19.6, Appendix A).
(e)
Uniform relocation assistance.
Relocations in connection with these Programs are subject to 49 CFR part 24 as referenced by 7 CFR part 21 except that the provisions in title III of the Uniform Act do not apply to these Programs.
(f)
Drug-free workplace.
Grants made under these Programs are subject to the requirements contained in 2 CFR part 421 which implements the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8101
et seq.
). An Intermediary requesting a REDG Grant will be required to certify that it will establish and make a good faith effort to maintain a drug-free workplace program.
(g)
Debarment and suspension.
The requirements of 2 CFR part 180 and Departmental Regulations 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment, and Suspension are applicable to these Programs.
(h)
Intergovernmental review of Federal programs.
These Programs are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 (3 CFR 1982 Comp., p. 197) and 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, which implements Executive Order 12372. Proposed Projects are subject to the State and
local government review process contained in 2 CFR part 415, subpart C.
(i)
Restrictions on lobbying.
The restrictions and requirements imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352, and 2 CFR part 418, are applicable to these Programs.
(j)
Earthquake hazards.
These Programs are subject to the seismic requirements of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701-7706).
(k)
Environmental requirements.
Actions taken under this subpart, including the loans made from the revolving loan fund using Agency funds, must comply with 7 CFR part 1970. However, revolving loan funds derived from repayments by third parties are not considered Federal financial assistance for the purposes of 7 CFR part 1970.
(l)
Affirmative fair housing.
If applicable, the Intermediary will be required to comply with the Affirmative Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601-3631).
(m)
Flood hazard insurance.
These Programs are subject to the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended by 42 U.S.C. 4001-4129.
(n)
Audits.
These Programs are subject to 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, as codified in 2 CFR part 400.1.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 11052, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 4280.37
Application forms and filing dates.
(a) The Intermediary may obtain forms that supplement the written narrative sections of its application from the Rural Development State Office for the State where the Intermediary is located.
(b) An original copy only of the application is to be filed with the Rural Development State Office. No other copies are required.
§ 4280.38
Maximum amount of loans or Grants.
During any given fiscal year, Rural Development will publish an announcement of available loan and Grant funds and will indicate the maximum loan and Grant amounts for which an Intermediary or prospective Intermediary may apply. This announcement will also include contact information and application deadlines. All pending applications on file at RBS, including both loan and Grant applications, from the same Intermediary or prospective Intermediary for the same Project will be considered to be one application in determining that the maximum size of the application is in accordance with this section.
§ 4280.39
Contents of an application.
An application for a loan or a Grant must contain the following:
(a) Required forms and certifications:
(1) Standard Form 424, “Application for Federal Assistance,” signed by an authorized representative of the Intermediary.
(2) A Resolution of the Board of Directors signed by the directors and certified by the Intermediary's board secretary. The board resolution must indicate whether the Intermediary is requesting a loan or Grant, agree to the provisions of this subpart and the loan or Grant agreement including the Intermediary's 20 percent Fund contribution, and state that the Intermediary has the legal authority to enter into a loan or Grant agreement under these Programs;
(3) Form AD 1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions,” and Form AD-1048, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Transactions.”
(4) Assurance statement for the Uniform Act signed by the Ultimate Recipient. This statement provides Rural Development with the required assurance statement that any relocations of persons or acquisitions of real property, as part of completing the Ultimate Recipient Project, will be handled in accordance with this statute.
(5) RD Instruction 1940-Q, Exhibit A-1, applies if the loan is greater than $150,000 or the Grant is greater than $100,000;
(6) SF LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,” (if the Intermediary or the Ultimate Recipient engages in lobbying activities);
(7) Form AD 1049, “Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements,” for Grants only;
(8) Seismic certification if construction of a building is proposed. The Project owner certifies that any building constructed will comply with standards that reduce the damage caused by earthquakes;
(9) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(10) RUS Form 7, “Financial and Statistical Report” and RUS Form 7a “Investments, Loan Guarantees, and Loans,” or similar information.
(b) A written narrative section must be provided. This section consists of the following:
(1) A Project description, including details of the work to be performed with Rural Development funds, and a business plan, including a discussion of management and prior experience of the Ultimate Recipient.
(2) A discussion of how the Project meets each selection factor in § 4280.42(b).
(3) A Revolving Loan Fund Plan is required if the Intermediary is applying for a Grant to establish a Revolving Loan Fund.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 81 FR 11052, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 4280.40
[Reserved]
§ 4280.41
Environmental review of the application.
The Agency will review the environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. Intermediaries will be informed by the Agency if additional information is required from the intermediary to complete the environmental review process. The environmental review process must be completed before the application can be considered for approval by the Agency.
[81 FR 11052, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 4280.42
Application evaluation and selection.
(a) Rural Development will evaluate the application and score it based on the selection factors in this section. All applications will be ranked on a nationwide basis, based on the total points scored.
(b) The application will be evaluated and scored using the information provided in accordance with § 4280.39(b)(2) of this subpart.
(1)
Nature of the Project.
Rural Development will award up to 60 points based on whether the Project:
(i) Is a for-profit business, Business Incubator, industrial building or park, or an infrastructure connection project (such as streets or utilities)—20 points;
(ii) Provides Technical Assistance to rural businesses or rural residents, or educates or provides medical care to rural residents—20 points;
(iii) Will enhance rural economic development by providing Advanced Telecommunications services and computer networks for medical, educational, and job training services. This review will be based on the application's telecommunications design—20 points.
(2)
Number of direct full-time equivalent jobs created or saved within a 3-year period.
To calculate full-time equivalent Direct-Jobs, count two part-time jobs as one full-time job or three part-time or seasonal jobs as one full-time job. If the total numbers of part-time and seasonal jobs add up to a fraction, round up to the next whole number after combining same. Indirect-Jobs or non-Rural jobs cannot be used for this calculation.
If the number of Rural full-time equivalent direct-jobs jobs created or saved per $100,000 of total, Project cost is:
Then Rural
Development will award:
(i) Greater than five
25 points.
(ii) From one to five
15 points.
(3)
Supplemental funds for the Project.
Points will be based on a calculation of the amount of supplemental funds to be provided to the Project. All supplemental funds used in the following calculation must be disbursed to the Project between the date of Rural Development receipt of the application and 1 year after the first advance of funds by Rural Development:
If supplemental funds as a percentage of the Rural Development loan or grant to be provided to the Project are:
Then Rural
Development will award:
(i) Greater than 200%
20 points.
(ii) From 100% to 200%
10 points.
(iii) From 50% to less than 100%
5 points.
(4)
Unemployment rate for the county(ies) where the Project is physically located.
Rural Development will compare the current unemployment rate(s) in the county(ies) to the State and national unemployment rates, and, if applicable, award points under the following categories, whichever is greater:
If the unemployment rate(s) in the county(ies) where the Project will be located:
Then Rural
Development will award:
(i) Exceeds the national unemployment rate by 30% or more
15 points.
(ii) Is greater than the national unemployment rate, but exceeds it by less than 30%
5 points.
(iii) Exceeds the State unemployment rate by 30% or more
10 points.
(iv) Is greater than the State unemployment rate but exceeds it by less than 30%
5 points.
(5)
Per capita personal income for the county(ies) where the Project is physically located.
Rural Development will compare the per capita personal income in the county(ies) where the Project will be located to the national and State per capita personal income levels, and, if applicable, award points under the following categories, whichever is greater:
If the per capita personal income level in the county(ies) is:
Then Rural
Development will award:
(i) Less than or equal to 90% of the national level
15 points.
(ii) Between 90 and 100% of the national level
5 points.
(iii) Less than or equal to 90% of the State level
10 points.
(iv) Between 90 and 100% of the State level
5 points.
(6)
Rural Area location.
(i) If the Project is physically located in an incorporated city or town or equivalent having a population of 1,249 or less, or if it is physically located in an unincorporated area, Rural Development will award 20 points.
(ii) If the Project is physically located in an incorporated area having a population of 1,250 to 2500, Rural Development will award 10 points.
(7)
Decline in population for the county where the Project is physically located.
If there has been a decline in population in the county where the Project will be located over the time period covered by the two most recent decennial Censuses to the present (or equivalent time frame if using a data source other than the decennial Census), Rural Development will award 10 points.
(8)
Cushion of Credit Payments.
Rural Development will determine the level of Cushion of Credit Payments on deposit by the Intermediary, as follows:
If the Intermediary's Cushion of Credit account level is:
Then Rural
Development will award:
(i) In excess of $300,000, or a dollar amount in excess of 3 percent of the Intermediary's total assets, whichever is less
15 points.
(ii) Within the range of $100,000 to $299,999.99, or a dollar amount that is within the range of one percent to 2.99 percent of Intermediary's total assets, whichever is less
10 points.
(iii) Within the range of $10,000 to $99,999.99, or a dollar amount that is within the range of 0.5 percent to .99 percent of Intermediary's total assets, whichever is less
5 points.
(9)
Initial loan and Grant.
If the loan or Grant application will result in the first award to an Intermediary under these Programs, Rural Development will award 10 points.
(10)
County participation.
If the Project will be the first REDLG Project financed in a county Rural Development will award 10 points.
(11) The business plan for the Applicant's Ultimate Recipient will be evaluated by Rural Development and must include:
(i) A description of the business or Project plans, its management, and, if applicable, its products and operating plans. (The business plan evaluated by Rural Development for Advanced Telecommunications will be its telecommunications and engineering design)—up to 15 points; and
(ii) An appropriate financial plan, including actual balance sheets and income statements covering the most recent 3-year period (for applicants who have been in business this long), and projected balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements for the ensuing 3-year period, supported by assumptions showing the basis for the projections—up to 20 points.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 9913, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 4280.43
Discretionary points.
The RBS Administrator has the discretion to designate up to 25 points (no more than 5 points for each of the following elements) based on whether the Project:
(a) Is located in a Rural Empowerment Zone, Rural Economic Area Partnership Zone, Rural Enterprise Community, or Champion Community;
(b) Is located in a county that has experienced the loss, removal, or closing of a major source or sources of employment in the last 3 years which causes an increase of 2 percentage points or more in the county's most recent unemployment rate compared with the same period immediately before the dislocation;
(c) Is located in a county that has experienced chronic or long-term economic deterioration;
(d) Is located in a county that was designated a disaster area by the President of the United States that significantly affected rural economic development and job creation. The county must have been designated within 3 years prior to filing of the completed application with Rural Development; or
(e) Is consistent with the Rural Development State Office's approved strategic plan and mission area objectives and is identified as a priority area for assistance in the States' plan.
§ 4280.44
Limitation on number of loans or Grants to an Intermediary.
Depending on the amount of funds available, Rural Development may publish an announcement limiting an Intermediary to one selected Grant application and two selected loan applications in a fiscal year.
§§ 4280.45-4280.46
[Reserved]
§ 4280.47
Non-selection of applications.
Provided the application requirements have not changed, an application not selected will be reconsidered in 3 subsequent funding competitions for a total of four funding competitions. If an application is withdrawn, it can be resubmitted and will be evaluated as a new application.
§ 4280.48
Post selection period.
Rural Development will notify the Intermediary in writing if the application is selected. The documents to be executed by the Intermediary will include:
(a) For a loan:
(1) A Letter of Conditions with Project-specific terms and conditions;
(2) A loan agreement with general terms and conditions;
(3) A note covering the repayment terms of the loan; and
(4) A legal opinion concerning the authority of the Intermediary to engage in the Project.
(b) For a Grant:
(1) A Letter of Conditions with Project-specific terms and conditions;
(2) A Grant agreement with general terms and conditions; and
(3) A legal opinion concerning the authority of the Intermediary to participate in the Revolving Loan Fund and to engage in the Project.
§ 4280.49
[Reserved]
§ 4280.50
Disbursement of Zero-Interest Loan funds.
(a) For a REDL loan, Rural Development will disburse Zero-Interest Loan funds to the Intermediary in accordance with the terms of the executed loan agreement. All loan funds will be disbursed either as an advance to the Intermediary, in multiple advances, or as a reimbursement for eligible project costs, once the Intermediary has complied with Rural Development requirements.
(b) The Intermediary must provide to the Ultimate Recipient all loan funds that the Intermediary receives from Rural Development within one year of receiving them. If the Intermediary does not re-lend Rural Development funds within one year, the loan funds, and all interest earned on the loan funds, must be returned to the Agency.
(c) For a REDG loan, Rural Development will disburse Grant funds to the Intermediary in accordance with 2 CFR 200 as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400 as applicable. Specifically, Rural Development will disburse the Grant funds in advance if the following requirements are met:
(1) The Intermediary has established written procedures that will minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from Rural Development and their disbursement to the Ultimate Recipient;
(2) The management system of the Intermediary meets the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400, as applicable;
(3) All necessary supplemental funds for the Project have been obligated or committed to the Revolving Loan Fund; and
(4) The requests for cash advances made by the Intermediary are limited to the minimum amounts needed and timed to be in accordance with the actual immediate cash needs of the Ultimate Recipient for carrying out the Project.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014]
§§ 4280.51-4280.52
[Reserved]
§ 4280.53
Loan payments.
The Intermediary must make all REDL payments to Rural Development by electronic funds transfer or other means as specified in the loan documents.
§ 4280.54
Construction procurement requirements.
Construction, including bidding and awarding of contracts, must be conducted in a manner that provides maximum open and free competition.
§ 4280.55
Monitoring responsibilities.
(a) The Intermediary must monitor the Project to ensure that:
(1) Funds are used only for the approved purposes as specified in the legal documents;
(2) Disbursements and expenditures of funds are properly supported with certifications, invoices, contracts, bills of sale, or other forms of evidence, which are maintained on the premises of the Intermediary;
(3) Project time schedules are being met, projected work by time periods is being accomplished, and other performance objectives are being achieved; and
(4) The Project is in compliance with all applicable regulations.
(b) Rural Development may inspect and copy records and documents that pertain to the Project. The Intermediary must retain these records for the term of the Project loan plus 2 years. In addition, Rural Development may also perform Project site visits and reviews of the use of loan or Grant proceeds.
(c) Rural Development will review and monitor Grants in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR parts 400, 415, 417, 418, and 421 as applicable.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 4280.56
Submission of reports and audits.
(a) In addition to any reports and audits required by 2 CFR part 200 and subpart F as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400, the Intermediary must submit the following monitoring reports to Rural Development:
(1)
Loan.
The Intermediary must submit Form RD 4280-1 “Survey of Recipients of Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program” to Rural Development on an annual basis until it no longer owes money to USDA under the REDLG Program.
(2)
Grant (Revolving Loan Fund).
The Intermediary must submit the Form RD 4280-1 to Rural Development on an annual basis until all projects financed with Rural Development Grant proceeds have been repaid or are otherwise retired, whichever occurs last. Thereafter, on a triennial basis until the fund is terminated, the Intermediary will submit to Rural Development the Form RD 4280-1, reporting on the activity of all loans made from the Revolving Loan Fund.
(b) If the Intermediary does not have an existing loan with RUS, the Intermediary will submit a copy of its annual audit to Rural Development within 90 days of its completion. All REDL audits must be conducted in accordance with Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and REDG audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400.
(c) Rural Development may require Ultimate Recipients that receive loans financed with Grant funds provided under the REDG Program to submit annual audits to comply with Federal audit regulations. In accordance with 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400, Ultimate Recipients that are nonprofit entities, or a State or local government, may be required to submit an audit subject to the threshold established in 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by in 2 CFR part 400.
[72 FR 29843, May 30, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76015, Dec. 19, 2014]
§§ 4280.57-4280.61
[Reserved]
§ 4280.62
Appeals.
An Intermediary may appeal any appealable adverse decision made by Rural Development that affects the Intermediary in accordance with 7 CFR part 11.
§ 4280.63
Exception authority.
Except as specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the RBS Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, make exceptions to any requirement or provision of this subpart, if such exception is necessary to implement the intent of the authorizing statute in a time of national emergency or in accordance with a Presidentially-declared disaster, or when such an exception is in the best interests of the Federal Government and is otherwise not in conflict with applicable law.
(a)
Applicant eligibility.
No exception to applicant eligibility can be made.
(b)
Project eligibility.
No exception to project eligibility can be made.
(c)
Rural area definition.
No exception to the definition of rural area, as defined, can be made.
§§ 4280.64-4280.99
[Reserved]
§ 4280.100
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been assigned OMB control number 0575-0035. A person is not required to respond to this collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Rural Energy for America Program General

# Source:
86 FR 22309, Apr. 27, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 4280.101
Purpose.
This subpart contains the procedures and requirements for providing the following financial assistance under the Rural Energy for America Program (REAP):
(a) Grants, or a combination grant and guaranteed loan, for the purpose of purchasing and installing Renewable Energy Systems (RES) and Energy Efficiency Improvements (EEI);
(b) Grants to assist agricultural producers and rural small businesses by conducting Energy Audits (EA) and
providing recommendations and information on Renewable Energy Development Assistance (REDA); and
(c) Grants or guaranteed loans, or a combination grant and guaranteed loan to an applicant or borrower pursuant to 7 CFR 1980, Subpart M Special Authority to Enable Funding of Broadband and Smart Utility Facilities Across Select Rural Development Programs. A Borrower or applicant receiving funding as referenced in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this subpart to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure related to the project financed, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR 1980, Subpart M.
§ 4280.102
Organization of subpart.
(a) Sections 4280.103 through 4280.111 discuss definitions; exception authority; review or appeal rights; conflict of interest; USDA Departmental Regulations; other applicable laws; ineligible applicants, grantees, and owners; general applicant, application, and funding provisions; and notifications, which are applicable to all of the funding programs under this subpart.
(b) Sections 4280.112 through 4280.125 discuss the requirements specific to RES and EEI grants. Sections 4280.112 and 4280.113 discuss, respectively, applicant and project eligibility. Section 4280.114 addresses ineligible projects. Section 4280.115 addresses funding provisions for these grants. Sections 4280.116 through 4280.120 address grant application content, technical merit determination, and required documentation. Sections 4280.121 through 4280.124 address the scoring, selection, awarding and administering, and servicing of these grant applications. Section 4280.125 addresses construction planning and development.
(c) Section 4280.137 presents the process by which the Agency will make combined loan guarantee and grant funding available for RES and EEI projects.
(d) Sections 4280.149 through 4280.159 present the process by which the Agency will make EA and REDA grant funding available. These sections cover applicant and project eligibility, grant funding, application content, evaluation, scoring, selection, awarding and administering, and servicing.
(e) Appendices A through C cover technical report requirements. Appendix A applies to EEI projects; Appendix B applies to RES projects with Total Project Costs of Less Than $200,000, but more than $80,000; and Appendix C applies to RES projects with Total Project Costs $200,000 and Greater. Appendices A and B do not apply to RES and EEI projects with Total Project Costs of $80,000 or less, respectively. Instead, technical report requirements for these projects are found in § 4280.120.
(f) Appendix D covers contents of feasibility study.
§ 4280.103
Definitions.
The following definitions are applicable to the capitalized terms used in this part.
Administrator.
The Administrator of Rural Business-Cooperative Service within the Rural Development Mission Area of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).
Agency.
The Rural Business-Cooperative Service or successor agency assigned by the Secretary of Agriculture to administer the Rural Energy for America Program. References to the National Office, Finance Office, State Office, or other Agency offices or officials should be read as prefaced by “Agency” or “Rural Development” as applicable.
Agricultural producer.
A person, including non-profits, directly engaged in the production of agricultural products through labor management and operations, including the cultivating, growing, and harvesting of plants and crops (including farming); breeding, raising, feeding, or housing of livestock (including ranching); forestry products; hydroponics; nursery stock; or aquaculture, whereby 50 percent or greater of their gross income is derived from the operations. The percentage is calculated as the average of gross agricultural operations income of the concern divided by the gross total income of the concern for the five most recent years. If the concern has been in operation for less than 60 months, use average gross agricultural operations income and gross total income for as
long as the concern has been in operation.
Anaerobic digester.
A Renewable Energy System that uses animal waste or other renewable biomass and may include other organic substrates to produce digestate and biogas that may be sold in a gaseous or compressed liquid state or used to produce thermal or electrical energy.
Applicant.
(1) Except for EA and REDA grants, the agricultural producer or rural small business that is seeking a grant, or a combination of a grant and guaranteed loan, under this subpart.
(2) For EA and REDA grants, a unit of State, Tribal, or local government; a land-grant college or university or other institution of higher education; a rural electric cooperative; a public power entity; council; or an Instrumentality of a State, Tribal, or local government that is seeking an EA or REDA grant under this subpart.
Bioenergy project.
A RES that produces fuel, biogas, thermal energy, or electric power from a renewable biomass source only.
Biofuel.
A fuel derived from renewable biomass.
Biogas.
Gaseous fuel (including landfill and sewage waste treatment gas) derived from the degradation and decomposition of renewable biomass.
Byproduct.
An incidental or secondary product, regardless of whether it has a readily identifiable commercial use or value, generated under normal operations of the proposed project that can be reasonably measured and monitored.
Commercially available.
A system that meets the requirements of either paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition.
(1) A domestic or foreign system that:
(i) Has both a proven and reliable operating history and proven performance data for at least 1 year specific to the use and operation to the proposed application;
(ii) Is based on established design and installation procedures and practices and is replicable;
(iii) Has professional service providers, trades, large construction equipment providers, and laborers who are familiar with installation procedures and practices;
(iv) Has proprietary and balance of system equipment and spare parts that are readily available;
(v) Has service that is readily available to properly maintain and operate the system; and
(vi) Has an existing established warranty that is valid in the United States for major parts and labor; or
(2) A domestic or foreign system that has been certified by a recognized industry organization whose certification standards are acceptable to the Agency.
Complete application.
An application that contains all parts necessary for the Agency to determine applicant and project eligibility, the financial feasibility and technical merit of the project, and contains sufficient information to determine a priority score for the application, if applicable.
Costs incurred.
A cost will be considered incurred when payment for costs associated with the project have been issued. If payment was in the form of a check, the date of the check will be considered the date the cost was incurred. If payment was in the form of an electronic payment, the date that the payment was issued from the grantee/producer/borrower account will be considered the date the cost was incurred.
Council.
As defined, under the Resource Conservation and Development Program, at 16 U.S.C. 3451.
Departmental regulations.
The regulations of the Agency's Office of Chief Financial Officer (or successor office) as codified in 2 CFR chapter IV.
Design/Build method.
A method of project development whereby all design, engineering, procurement, construction, and other related project activities are performed under a single contract. The contractor is solely responsible and accountable for successful delivery of the project to the grantee as applicable.
Eligible project costs.
Those expenses approved by the Agency for the project as eligible uses of funds.
Energy assessment.
An Agency-approved report assessing energy use, cost, and efficiency by analyzing energy bills and surveying the target
building and/or equipment sufficiently to provide an Agency-approved energy assessment.
(1) If the project's total project cost is greater than $80,000, the energy assessment must be conducted by either an energy auditor or an energy assessor or an individual supervised by either an energy assessor or energy auditor. The final energy assessment must be validated and signed by the energy assessor or energy auditor who conducted the energy assessment or by the supervising energy assessor or energy auditor of the individual who conducted the assessment, as applicable.
(2) If the project's total project cost is $80,000 or less, the energy assessment may be conducted in accordance with paragraph (1) of this definition or by an individual or entity that has at least 3 years of experience and completed at least five energy assessments or energy audits on similar type projects.
Energy assessor.
A qualified consultant who has at least 3 years of experience and completed at least five energy assessments or energy audits on similar type projects and who adheres to generally recognized engineering principles and practices.
Energy audit.
A comprehensive report that meets an Agency-approved standard prepared by an energy auditor or an individual supervised by an energy auditor that documents current energy usage; recommended potential improvements (typically called energy conservation measures) and their costs; energy savings from these improvements; dollars saved per year; and simple payback. The methodology of the energy audit must meet professional and industry standards. The final energy audit must be validated and signed off by the energy auditor who conducted the audit or by the supervising energy auditor of the individual who conducted the audit, as applicable.
Energy auditor.
A qualified consultant that meets one of the following criteria:
(1) A certified energy auditor certified by the Association of Energy Engineers;
(2) A certified energy manager certified by the Association of Energy Engineers;
(3) A licensed professional engineer in the State in which the audit is conducted with at least 1-year experience and who has completed at least two similar type energy audits; or
(4) An individual with a 4-year engineering or architectural degree with at least 3 years of experience and who has completed at least five similar type energy audits.
Energy efficiency improvement (EEI).
Improvements to or replacement of an existing building or systems and/or equipment, owned by the applicant, that reduces energy consumption on an annual basis.
Existing business.
A business that has been in operation for at least 1 full year. The following will be treated as existing businesses provided there is not a significant change in operations of the existing business: Mergers by an existing business with a new or existing business, a change in the business name, or a new business and an existing business applying as co-applicants.
Feasibility study.
A report including an opinion or finding conducted by an independent qualified consultant(s) evaluating the economic, market, technical, financial, and management feasibility of a proposed project or operation in terms of its expectation for success as outlined in Appendix D of this Subpart.
Federal fiscal year.
The 12-month period beginning October 1 of each year and ending on September 30 of the following year; it is designated by the calendar year in which it ends.
Financial Assistance Agreement (Form RD 4280-2, Rural Business-Cooperative Service Financial Assistance Agreement).
An agreement between the Agency and the grantee setting forth the provisions under which the grant will be administered.
Financial feasibility.
The ability of a project to achieve sufficient income, credit, and cash flow to financially sustain a project over the long term and meet all debt obligations.
Geothermal direct generation.
A system that uses thermal energy directly from a geothermal source.
Geothermal electric generation.
A system that uses thermal energy from a geothermal source to produce electricity.
Hybrid.
A combination of two or more renewable energy technologies that are incorporated into a unified system to support a single project.
Hydroelectric source.
A RES producing electricity using various types of moving water including, but not limited to, diverted run-of-river water, in-stream run-of-river water, and in-conduit water.
Hydrogen project.
A system that produces hydrogen derived from a renewable biomass or water using wind, solar, ocean (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal) geothermal or hydroelectric sources as an energy transport medium in the production of mechanical or electric power or thermal energy.
Immediate family(ies).
Individuals who live in the same household or who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, such as a spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, sibling, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, nephew, or first cousin.
Inspector.
A qualified consultant who has at least 3 years of experience and has completed at least five inspections on similar type projects.
Institution of Higher Education.
As defined in 20 U.S.C. 1002(a).
Instrumentality.
An organization recognized, established, and controlled by a State, Tribal, or local government, for a public purpose or to carry out special purposes.
Interconnection agreement.
A contract containing the terms and conditions governing the interconnection and parallel operation of the grantee's electric generation equipment and the utility's electric power system or a grantee's biogas production system and gas pipeline.
Matching funds.
Those project funds required by 7 U.S.C. 8107 to be made available by the applicant in order to be eligible to receive the grant, or combined grant and guaranteed loan. Funds provided by the applicant in excess of matching funds are not matching funds. Unless authorized by statute, other Federal grant funds cannot be used to meet a matching funds requirement.
Ocean energy.
Energy created by use of various types of moving water in the ocean and other large bodies of water (
e.g.,
Great Lakes) including, but not limited to, tidal, wave, current, and thermal changes.
Passive investor.
An equity investor that does not actively participate in management and operation decisions of the applicant or any affiliate of the applicant as evidenced by a contractual agreement.
Person.
An individual or entity organized under the laws of a State or a Tribe.
Power purchase agreement.
The terms and conditions governing the sale and transportation of power produced by the applicant to another party.
Public Power Entity.
Is defined using the definition of “State utility” as defined in section 217(A)(4) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824q(a)(4)). As of this writing, the definition “means a State or any political subdivision of a State, or any agency, authority, or Instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing, or a corporation that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by any one or more of the foregoing, competent to carry on the business of developing, transmitting, utilizing, or distributing power.”
Qualified Consultant(s).
An independent third-party person possessing the knowledge, expertise, and experience to perform the specific task required.
Rated Power.
The maximum amount of energy that can be created at any given time.
Refurbished.
Refers to a piece of equipment or RES that has been brought into a commercial facility, thoroughly inspected, and worn parts replaced and has a warranty that is approved by the Agency or its designee.
Renewable biomass.
(1) Materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from National Forest System land or public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)) that:
(i) Are byproducts of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels; to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation; or to restore ecosystem health;
(ii) Would not otherwise be used for higher-value products; and
(iii) Are harvested in accordance with applicable law and land management plans and the requirements for old-growth maintenance, restoration, and management direction of paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (e) of section 102 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6512) and large-tree retention of subsection (f) of Section 102; or
(2) Any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from non-Federal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian Tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including the following items:
(i) Renewable plant material (including feed grains; other agricultural commodities; other plants and trees; and algae); and
(ii) Waste material including crop residue; other vegetative waste material (including wood waste and wood residues); animal waste and byproducts (including fats, oils, greases, and manure); and food waste and yard waste.
Renewable energy.
Energy derived from:
(1) A wind, solar, renewable biomass, ocean (including tidal, wave, current, and thermal), geothermal or hydroelectric Source; or
(2) Hydrogen derived from renewable biomass or water using an energy source described in paragraph (1).
Renewable energy development assistance (REDA).
Assistance provided by eligible grantees to agricultural producers and rural small businesses including education, applicability, and implementation of renewable energy technologies and resources. The REDA may consist of renewable energy site assessments or renewable energy technical assistance.
Renewable energy site assessment.
A report provided to an agricultural producer or rural small business providing information regarding and recommendations for the use of commercially available renewable energy technologies in its operation. The report must be prepared by a qualified consultant and must contain the information specified in Sections A through C of Appendix B.
Renewable Energy System (RES).
A system that produces usable energy from a renewable energy source and may include:
(1) Distribution components necessary to move energy produced by such system to initial point of sale; and
(2) other components and ancillary infrastructure of such system, such as a storage system; however, such system may not include a mechanism for dispensing energy at retail.
Renewable energy technical assistance.
Assistance provided to agricultural producers and rural small businesses on how to use renewable energy technologies and resources in their operations.
Retrofitting.
A modification to an existing building or installed equipment that incorporates a function or feature(s)not included in the original design when built or for the replacement of existing components with components that improve the original design and does not impact original warranty if the warranty is still in existence.
Rural or rural area.
Any area of a State not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and excluding certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I).In making this determination, the Agency will use the latest decennial census of the United States. The following exclusions apply:
(1) Any area in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants that has been determined to be “rural in character” as follows:
(i) The determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of Rural Development. The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition. The determination that an area is “rural in character” under this definition will apply to areas that are within:
(A) An urbanized area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous
or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urbanized area of such a city or town; or
(B) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants that is within
1/4
mile of a rural area.
(ii) Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of Rural Development for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to the appropriate Rural Development State Director for recommendation to the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (1)(i)(A) or (B) of this definition and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within 5 business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Secretary will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Agency's website at
https://www.rd.usda.gov,
and the Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration. The Under Secretary will make a determination of the appeal in not less than 15 days, but no more than 30 days.
(iii) Rural Development State Directors may also initiate a request to the Under Secretary to determine if an area is “rural in character.” A written recommendation should be sent to the Administrator, on behalf of the Under Secretary, that documents how the area meets the statutory requirements of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of this definition and discusses why the State Director believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, topography, and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receipt of such a request, the Administrator will review the request for compliance with the “rural in character” provisions and make a recommendation to the Under Secretary. Provided a favorable determination is made, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor or leader in a similar position and request comments within 10 business days, unless the comments were submitted with the request. A public notice will be published by the State Office in accordance with paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition. There is no appeal process for requests made on the initiative of the State Director.
(2) An area that is attached to the urbanized area of a city or town with more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than two census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their Rural Development State Office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a rural area under this provision.
(3) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered rural and eligible except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be rural if they are “not urban in character.”
(4) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered rural and eligible except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the Honolulu CDP, may be determined to be rural if they are “not urban in character.”
(5) For the purpose of defining a rural area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the
Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency shall determine what constitutes rural and rural area based on available population data.
Rural small business.
A small business that is located in a rural area or that can demonstrate the proposed project for which assistance is being applied for under this part is located in a rural area.
Simple payback.
The estimated simple payback of a project funded under this part as calculated using paragraphs (1) or (2), as applicable, of this definition.
(1) EEI projects simple payback = (total project costs) ÷ (dollar value of energy saved).
(i) Energy saved will be determined by subtracting the projected energy (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(B) of this definition) to be consumed from the historical energy consumed (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition), and converting the result to a monetary value using a constant value or price of energy (determined by the method in paragraph (1)(i)(C) of this definition).
(A) Actual energy used in the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, prior to the EEI project, must be based on the actual average annual total energy used in British thermal units (BTU) over the most recent 12, 24, 36, 48, or 60 consecutive months of operation. Attach utility bills to document applicant entity's historical energy consumption quantity.
(B) Projected energy use if the proposed EEI project had been in place for the original building and/or equipment, as applicable, for the same time period used to determine that actual energy use under paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition.
(C) Value or price of energy must be the actual average price paid over the same time period used to calculate the actual energy used under paragraph (1)(i)(A) of this definition. When calculating the actual average price of energy, only include energy charges directly reduced by the unit of energy being replaced or saved. Attach utility bills to document applicant entity's average price of energy.
(ii) The EEI projects simple payback calculation does not allow applicants to monetize EEI benefits other than the dollar amount of the energy savings the agricultural producer or rural small business realizes as a result of the improvement.
(2) RES projects simple payback = (total project costs) ÷ (dollar value of energy units replaced, credited, sold, or used and fair market value of byproducts as applicable in a typical year).
(i) Value of energy replaced will be calculated based on the applicant entity's historical energy consumption with actual average price paid for the energy replaced, following the methodology outlined in paragraph (1)(i) of this definition. Attach utility bills to document applicant entity's historical energy consumption quantity and actual average price of energy.
(ii) Value of energy credited or sold will be calculated based on the amount of energy units to be credited or sold at the proposed rate per unit, as documented in utility net metering or crediting policies and/or a power purchase agreement. Attach utility net metering or crediting policies and/or a power purchase agreement to document energy quantity and proposed rate for energy credited or sold.
(iii) If proposed energy will be used in a new facility, value of energy used will be calculated based on the amount of energy units to be used at the documented price per unit of conventional fuel alternative. Attach documentation of market price per unit of conventional fuel alternative.
(iv) Value of byproducts produced by and used in the project or related enterprises should be documented at the fair market value to be received for the byproducts in a typical year. Attach documentation of market value price to be received for byproducts and documentation to support byproduct sales or direct use.
(v) The RES projects simple payback calculation does not include any one-time benefits such as but not limited to construction and investment-related benefits, nor credits which do not provide annual income to the project, such as tax credits.
Small business
means,
(1) An entity or utility, as applicable, as further defined in subparagraphs (i) through (iv) and paragraph (2) of this
definition. With the exception of the entities identified in this paragraph, all other non-profit entities are not small businesses for the purposes of REAP program eligibility:
(i) A private for-profit entity, including a sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation;
(ii) A cooperative (including a cooperative qualified under section 501(c)(12) of the Internal Revenue Code);
(iii) An electric utility (including a Tribal or governmental electric utility) that provides service to rural consumers and operates independent of direct government control; or
(iv) A Tribal corporation or other Tribal business entities that are chartered under Section 17 of the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 477) or have similar structures and relationships with their Tribal governments and are acceptable to the Agency. The Agency will determine the small business status of such Tribal entity without regard to the resources of the Tribal government; and
(2) An entity that meets Small Business Administration size standards in accordance with 13 CFR part 121 and criteria of § 121.301 as applicable to financial assistance programs, including (i) or (ii) below. The size of the concern alone and the size of the concern combined with other entity(ies) it controls or entity(ies) it is controlled by, must not exceed the size standard thresholds designated for the industry in which the concern alone or the concern and its controlling entity(ies), whichever is higher, is primarily engaged.
(i) The concern's tangible net worth is not in excess of $15 million and average net income (excluding carry-over losses) for the preceding two completed fiscal years is not in excess of $5.0 million; or
(ii) The size of the concern does not exceed the Small Business Administration (SBA) size standard thresholds designated for the industry in which it is primarily engaged, as measured by number of employees or annual receipts. Industry size standard designations to be utilized are listed in the Small Business Administration's (SBA) table of size standards found in 13 CFR part 121.201. Number of employees and annuals receipts are calculated as follows:
(A) Number of employees is calculated as the average number of all individuals employed by a concern on a full-time, part-time, or other basis, based upon numbers of employees for each of the pay periods for the preceding completed 12 calendar months. If a concern has not been in business for 12 months, the average number of employees is used for each of the pay periods during which it has been in business.
(B) Annual receipts are calculated as average total income plus cost of goods sold for the for the five most recent years. If a concern has been in operation for less than 60 months, average annual receipts for as long as the concern has been in operation are used.
Smart Utility.
The use of broadband facilities and equipment that is only available internally by a recipient during the economic life of the assets financed by an Agency loan, grant, or loan guarantee.
State.
Any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Steady state operating level
means that there is an adequate and consistent supply of the applicable renewable energy resource(s) for the project, both on a short-term (current) and long-term basis, and the renewable energy system and process(es) are operating at projected capacity, consistently yielding an adequate quantity and quality of renewable energy.
Total eligible project costs.
The sum of all eligible project costs.
Total project costs.
The sum of all costs associated with a completed project.
Underserved community(ies).
Communities (including urban or rural communities and Indian tribal communities) that have limited access to affordable, healthy foods, including fresh fruits and vegetables, in grocery retail stores or farmer-to-consumer direct markets and that have either a high
rate of hunger or food insecurity or a high poverty rate as reflected in the most recent decennial census or other Agency-approved census.
Used equipment.
Any equipment that has been used and is provided in an “as is” condition.
Useful life
means estimated durations of utility placed on a variety of assets, including buildings, machinery, equipment, vehicles, electronics, and furniture. Useful life estimations terminate at the point when assets are expected to become obsolete, require major repairs, or cease to deliver economical results.
Veteran.
A veteran is a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable as defined in title 38 U.S.C. 101(2).
[86 FR 22309, Apr. 27, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 38644, June 29, 2022]
§ 4280.104
Exception authority.
The Administrator may, on a case-by-case basis, grant an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart provided that such an exception is in the best financial interests of the Federal Government. Exercise of this authority cannot be in conflict with applicable law.
§ 4280.105
Review or appeal rights.
Agency Applicants or grantees may have appeal or review rights for Agency decisions made under this part. Agency decisions that are adverse to the individual participant are appealable, while matters of general applicability are not subject to appeal; however, such decisions are reviewable for appealability by the National Appeals Division (NAD). All appeals will be conducted by NAD and will be handled in accordance with 7 CFR part 11. The applicant or grantee can appeal any Agency decision that directly and adversely affects them.
§ 4280.106
Conflict of interest.
(a)
General.
No conflict of interest or appearance of conflict of interest will be allowed. Conflict of interest means a situation in which a person has personal, professional, or financial interests that prevent, or appears to prevent the person from acting impartially. For purposes of this subpart, conflict of interest includes, but is not limited to, distribution or payment of grant, guaranteed loan funds, and matching funds to a beneficiary or immediate family member of the applicant.
(b)
Assistance to employees, relatives, and associates.
The Agency will process any requests for assistance under this subpart in accordance with 7 CFR part 1900, subpart D.
(c)
Member/delegate clause.
No member of or delegate to Congress shall receive any share or part of this grant or any benefit that may arise there from; but this provision shall not be construed to bar, as a contractor under the grant, a publicly held corporation whose ownership might include a member of Congress.
§ 4280.107
[Reserved]
§ 4280.108
U.S. Department of Agriculture departmental regulations and laws that contain other compliance requirements.
(a)
Departmental regulations.
All projects funded under this subpart are subject to the provisions of the Departmental regulations, as applicable, which are incorporated by reference herein.
(b)
Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.
The Agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscrimination requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, 15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
and 7 CFR part 15d, Nondiscrimination in Programs and Activities Conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture. The Agency will not discriminate against applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, disability, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
(c)
Civil rights compliance.
Recipients of grants must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.,
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
42 U.S.C. 2000d et
seq.,
and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 794. This includes collection and maintenance of data on the race, sex, and national origin of the recipient's membership/ownership and employees. These data must be available to conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR 1901.204.
(1) Initial compliance reviews will be conducted by the Agency prior to funds being obligated for programs.
(2) When compliance reviews are applicable to the grant, one subsequent compliance review following project completion is required. This will occur after the last disbursement of grant funds has been made.
(d)
Environmental analysis.
Actions taken under this subpart must comply with 7 CFR part 1970. Prospective applicants are advised to contact the Agency to determine environmental requirements as soon as practicable after they decide to pursue any form of financial assistance directly or indirectly available through the Agency.
(1) Any required environmental review must be completed by the Agency prior to the Agency obligating any funds.
(2) The applicant will be notified of all specific compliance requirements, including, but not limited to, the publication of public notices, and consultation with State or Tribal Historic Preservation Offices and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
(3) A site visit by the Agency may be scheduled, if necessary, to determine the scope of the review.
(e)
Discrimination complaints
—(1)
Who may file.
Persons or a specific class of persons believing they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this section may file a complaint personally, or by an authorized representative with USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250.
(2)
Time for filing.
A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated officials of USDA or Rural Development.
§ 4280.109
Ineligible applicants, grantees, and owners.
Applicants, grantees, and owners will be ineligible to receive funds under this subpart as discussed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(a) If an applicant, grantee, or owner has an outstanding judgment obtained by the U.S. in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court), is delinquent in the payment of Federal income taxes, or is delinquent on a Federal debt, the applicant, grantee, or owner is not eligible to receive a grant or combined grant and guaranteed loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied or the delinquency is resolved.
(b) If an applicant, grantee, or owner is debarred from receiving Federal assistance, the applicant, grantee, or owner is not eligible to receive a grant or combined grant and guaranteed loan under this subpart.
§ 4280.110
General applicant, application, and funding provisions.
(a)
Satisfactory progress.
An applicant that has received one or more grants and/or guaranteed loans under this program must make satisfactory progress, as determined by the Agency, toward completion of any previously funded projects before the applicant will be considered for subsequent funding. This may include a review of the applicant compliance with Agency reporting requirements. Satisfactory progress for EA and REDA grants is defined as at least 50 percent of previous EA or REDA awards expended at the time the Agency makes its eligibility determination.
(b)
Application submittal.
Applications must be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this subpart unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice. Grant applications and combined grant and guaranteed loan applications for financial assistance under this subpart may be submitted at any time.
(1)
Grant applications.
Complete grant applications will be accepted on a continuous basis, with awards made based on the application's score and subject to available funding.
(2)
Combined grant and guaranteed loan applications.
Applications requesting a RES or EEI grant and a guaranteed loan under this subpart will be accepted on a continuous basis, with awards made based on the grant application's score and subject to available funding.
(c)
Application limits.
An applicant applying for a grant or a combined grant and guaranteed loan is limited to competing one RES application and one EEI application under this subpart in any one Federal fiscal year. An applicant that proposes to install the same EEI or RES (including hybrid) across multiple facilities can be considered one project and be submitted in one application.
(d)
Application modification.
Once submitted and prior to Agency award, if an applicant modifies the scope of the project described in its application, the application will be treated as a new application. The submission date of record for such modified applications will be the date the Agency receives the modified information, and the application will be processed and scored by the Agency as a new application under this subpart.
(e)
Incomplete applications.
Applicants must submit complete applications in order to be considered for funding. If an application is incomplete, the Agency will identify those parts of the application that are incomplete and provide a written explanation to the applicant for possible future resubmission. Upon receipt of a complete application by the appropriate Agency office, the Agency will complete its evaluation and will compete the application in accordance with the procedures specified in §§ 4280.122 or 4280.156 as applicable.
(f)
Application withdrawal.
During the period between the submission of an application and the execution of award documents for an application selected for funding, the applicant must notify the Agency, in writing, if the project is no longer viable or the applicant no longer is requesting financial assistance for the project. When the applicant notifies the Agency, the selection will be rescinded and/or the application withdrawn.
(g)
Technical report.
The following technologies: Hydrogen, ocean energy, geothermal electric generation, anaerobic digesters and biogas, biomass, hybrid applications, RES with storage components, and EEI or technologies as amended via
Federal Register
notification or posted on the Agency's website, must provide a technical report as specified in §§ 4280.118(d) 4280.119(b)(4), and 4280.120(b)(3) and 4280.120(b)(4), and must comply with the provisions specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3), as applicable, of this section:
(1)
Technical report format and detail.
The information in the technical report must follow the format specified in § 4280.120(b)(3), § 4280.120(b)(4), and Appendices A through C of this subpart, as applicable. Supporting information may be submitted in other formats. Design drawings and process flowcharts are encouraged as exhibits. In addition, information must be provided, in sufficient detail, to:
(i) Allow the Agency to determine the technical merit of the applicant's project under § 4280.117;
(ii) Allow the calculation of simple payback as defined in § 4280.103;
(iii) For RES Projects, enable the calculation of the percentage of historical use of energy compared to the amount of renewable energy that will be generated once the project is operating at its steady state operating level. If the project is closely associated with a residence, demonstration must be made that 50 percent or more of the projected renewable energy will benefit the agricultural operation or rural small business; and
(iv) Demonstrate that the RES or EEI will operate or perform over the project's useful life in a reliable, safe, and a cost-effective manner, which may include but is not limited to addressing project design, installation, operation, maintenance, and warranties.
(2)
Technical report modifications.
If a technical report is prepared prior to the applicant's selection of a final design, equipment vendor, or contractor, or other significant decision, it may be modified and resubmitted to the Agency, provided that the overall scope of the project is not materially changed as determined by the Agency. Changes
in the technical report may require additional environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(3)
Hybrid projects.
If the application is for a hybrid project, technical reports as applicable must be prepared for each technology that comprises the hybrid project.
(h)
Time limit on use of grant funds.
Except as provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, grant funds not expended within 2 years from the date the Financial Assistance Agreement was signed by the Agency will be returned to the Agency.
(1)
Time extensions.
The Agency may extend the 2-year time limit for a period not to exceed 24 months if the Agency determines, at its sole discretion, that the grantee is unable to complete the project for reasons beyond the grantee's control. Grantees must submit a request for the no-cost extension no later than 30 days before the two-year anniversary of executing the Financial Assistance Agreement. This request must describe the extenuating circumstances that were beyond their control to complete the project for which the grant was awarded, and why an approval is in the government's best interest.
(2)
Return of funds to the Agency.
Funds remaining after grant closeout that exceed the amount the grantee is entitled to receive under the Financial Assistance Agreement will be returned to the Agency.
§ 4280.111
Notifications.
(a)
Eligibility.
If an applicant and/or their application are determined by the Agency to be eligible for participation, the Agency will notify the applicant or lender in writing of the eligibility determination.
(b)
Ineligibility.
If an applicant and/or their application are determined to be ineligible at any time, the Agency will inform the applicant or lender, as applicable, in writing of the decision, reasons therefore, and any appeal rights, if applicable. No further processing of the application will occur.
(c)
Funding determinations.
Each applicant and/or lender, as applicable, will be notified of the Agency's decision on their application. If unfunded in a competition, the application will compete in the next available competition and will continue competing until either awarded or the application has competed in the maximum number of competitions in a fiscal year. The Agency will then issue an adverse funding determination for the unsuccessful application. If the Agency's decision is not to fund an application, the Agency will include in the notification any applicable appeal or review rights.

# Renewable Energy System and Energy Efficiency Improvement Grants
§ 4280.112
Applicant eligibility.
To receive a RES or EEI grant under this subpart, an applicant must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
(a)
Type of applicant.
The applicant must be an agricultural producer or rural small business at the time of application.
(b)
Ownership and control.
The applicant must at the time of application and, if an award is made, for the useful life of the project as described in the Financial Assistance Agreement:
(1) Own the project; and
(2) Own or control the site for the project. If the grantee does not maintain ownership of the project and ownership or control of the site, then grant funds may be recovered from the grantee by the Agency in accordance with Departmental Regulations.
(c)
End Users.
If the controlling interest in the applicant entity is otherwise eligible and a legal transaction between two parties for the sale of energy in an open market is being proposed, the Agency will not consider the energy end-users as part of the analysis of the eligibility of the applicant. If the proposed end-user would be an ineligible applicant, such as an entity which is residential in nature or a non-profit entity, and the REAP applicant entity is a newly formed special-purpose entity with substantially the same ownership as the sole proposed end-user, then the REAP applicant entity is not eligible.
(d)
Revenues and expenses.
The applicant must have available at the time of application satisfactory sources of revenue in an amount sufficient to provide
for the operation, management, maintenance, and any debt service of the project for the useful life of the project. In addition, the applicant must control the revenues and expenses of the project, including its operation and maintenance. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, the applicant may employ a qualified consultant under contract to manage revenues and expenses of the project and its operation and/or maintenance.
(e)
Legal authority and responsibility.
Each applicant must have the legal authority necessary to apply for and carry out the purpose of the grant.
(f)
Unique Entity Identifier (UEI).
All applicants must register for a UEI as part of the registration process. Generally, the UEI number is included on Standard Form-424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”
(g)
System for Awards Management (SAM).
Unless exempt under 2 CFR 25.110, the applicant must:
(1) Be registered in the SAM prior to submitting an application;
(2) Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times while an application is pending and until final fund disbursement has been made.
§ 4280.113
Project eligibility.
For a project to be eligible to receive a RES or EEI grant under this subpart, the proposed project must meet each of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. Subsequent EEI projects must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section. The applicant is cautioned against taking any actions or incurring any obligations prior to the Agency completing the environmental review that would either limit the range of alternatives to be considered or that would have an adverse effect on the environment, such as the initiation of construction. If the applicant takes any such actions or incurs any such obligations, it could result in project ineligibility.
(a) The project must be for:
(1) The purchase of a new RES;
(2) The purchase of a refurbished RES;
(3) The retrofitting of an existing RES;
(4) For the purposes of this subpart, only those hydroelectric sources with a rated power of 30 megawatts or less are eligible, or
(5) Making an EEI that will allow less energy to be used on an annual basis than the original building and/or equipment being improved or replaced as provided in a vendor/installer certification or as demonstrated in an energy assessment or energy audit as applicable.
(i)
Types of improvements.
Eligible EEI include, but are not limited to:
(A) Efficiency improvements to existing RES; and
(B) Construction of a new energy efficient building only when the building is used for the same purpose as the existing building, and, based on an energy assessment or energy audit, as applicable, it will be more cost effective to construct a new building and will use less energy on annual basis than improving the existing building.
(ii)
Subsequent EEI projects.
A proposed EEI project that replaces an EEI project previously funded under this subpart may or may not be eligible for funding.
(A) If the proposed EEI project would replace the same specific EEI equipment that had previously received funds under this subpart prior to the end of the useful life, as specified in the Financial Assistance Agreement, then the proposed improvement project, even if it is more energy efficient than the previously funded improvement, is ineligible.
(B) If the proposed EEI project would replace the same specific EEI equipment that had previously received funds under this subpart at or after the end of the useful life, as specified in the Financial Assistance Agreement, then the proposed improvement is eligible for funding under this subpart provided the EEI is more energy efficient than the previously funded improvement. If the proposed EEI is not more energy efficient than the previously funded improvement, then it is not eligible for funding under this subpart.
(b) The project must utilize commercially available technology;
(c) The project must have technical merit, as determined using the procedures specified in § 4280.117; and
(d) The project must be located in a rural area in a State if the type of applicant is a rural small business, or in a rural or non-rural area in a State if the type of applicant is an agricultural producer and the application supports the production, processing, vertical integration, or marketing of agricultural products. If the agricultural producer's operation is in a non-rural area, then the application can only be for RES or EEI components of the business operation that are directly related to and their use and purpose is limited to the agricultural production operation, such as vertically integrated operations, and are part of and co-located with the agricultural production operation.
(e) For a RES project, where a residence is closely associated with and shares an energy metering device with an agricultural operation or rural small business to be served by the RES project, 50 percent or more of the energy to be generated by the RES project must be used by the agricultural operation or rural small business. This also includes projects which will virtually net meter or credit energy to be generated by the RES project to a residence off-site from the project and owned by the applicant. The application must contain sufficient documentation to evaluate this provision which may include using either of the methods identified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (2) of this section.
(1) Provide a renewable energy site assessment or other documentation including calculations that demonstrate, based on historical energy use, that 50 percent or more of the energy to be produced by the RES project will be used in the agricultural operation or rural small business. This includes documentation on historical residential energy use. The Agency may request additional data to determine residential versus business or agricultural operation usage. The actual percentage of energy determined to benefit the rural small business or agricultural operation will be used to determine eligible project costs; or
(2) The applicant may install, or elect to conditionalize funding upon the installation of, a device (such as a second meter) that restricts 100 percent of the energy generated by the RES project to be used only by the agricultural operation or rural small business.
(f) An applicant is permitted to use up to 10 percent of the amount provided under this subpart to construct, improve, or acquire broadband infrastructure, subject to the requirements of 7 CFR 1980, Subpart M, Special Authority to Enable Funding of Broadband and Smart Utility Facilities Across Select Rural Development Programs.
§ 4280.114
Ineligible projects.
The Agency will not award funding under this part for any projects identified in this section, unless otherwise noted.
(a) Research and development projects and projects that involve technology that is not commercially available;
(b) Business operations that derive more than 10 percent of annual gross revenue from gambling activity. Gambling activities include any lease income from space or machines used for gambling activities. State or Tribal-authorized lottery proceeds, as approved by the Agency, conducted for the purpose of raising funds for the approved project are excluded;
(c) Business operations deriving income from activities of a sexual nature or illegal activities;
(d) Residential RES or EEI projects, including farm labor housing, apartment complexes, and owner-occupied bed and breakfasts, except for-profit nursing homes and assisted living facilities that provide full-time medical care for residents, and for-profit hotels that provide short-term housing;
(e) Racetracks or facilities for conducting either professional or amateur races of animals, or by professional or amateur drivers or jockeys, or any other type of racing;
(f) RES projects that co-fire with fossil fuels, natural gas or petroleum-based products or materials such as coal and other non-renewable fuels, oils, and chemicals, and tires or plastic;
(g) Projects where 50 percent or more of the costs are ineligible or where
project costs as defined in the application do not meet the definition of a renewable energy system or energy efficiency improvement, including projects submitted for labor costs only. Project costs associated with an EEI that are not clearly identified in the energy assessment or audit will be considered ineligible costs; and
(h) Projects proposing two or more different types of RES technologies that are not incorporated into a unified system and projects proposing two or more different types of RES technologies at two or more locations.
§ 4280.115
RES and EEI grant funding.
(a)
Grant amounts.
The amount of grant funds that will be made available to an eligible RES or EEI project under this subpart will not exceed 25 percent of eligible project costs. Eligible project costs are specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1)
Minimum request.
Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, the minimum request for a RES grant application is $2,500 and the minimum request for an EEI grant application is $1,500.
(2)
Maximum request.
Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, the maximum request for a RES grant application is $500,000 and the maximum request for an EEI grant application is $250,000.
(3)
Maximum grant assistance.
Unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, the maximum amount of grant assistance to one person or entity under this subpart will not exceed $750,000 per Federal fiscal year.
(b)
Matching funds and other funds.
The applicant is responsible for securing the remainder of the total project costs not covered by grant funds.
(1) Without specific statutory authority, other Federal grant funds cannot be used to meet the matching funds requirement. A copy of the statutory authority must be provided to the Agency to verify if the other Federal grant funds can be used to meet the matching funds requirement under this subpart.
(2) Passive third-party equity contributions are acceptable for RES projects, including equity raised from the sale of Federal tax credits.
(c)
Eligible Project Costs.
Eligible project costs are only those costs incurred after a complete application has been received by the Agency and are associated with the items identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section. Each item identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section is only an eligible project cost if it is directly related to and its use and purpose is limited to the RES or EEI.
(1) Purchase and installation of new or refurbished equipment.
(2) Construction, retrofitting, replacement, and improvements.
(3) EEI identified by vendor/installer certification or in the applicable energy assessment or energy audit.
(4) Fees for construction permits and licenses and fees required by an interconnection agreement.
(5) Professional service fees related to the project for qualified consultants, contractors, installers, and other third-party services.
(6) For an eligible RES in which a residence is closely associated with the rural small business or agricultural operation the installation of a second meter to separate the residence from the portion of the project that benefits the rural small business or agricultural operation, as applicable.
(d)
Ineligible project costs.
Ineligible project costs for RES and EEI projects include, but are not limited to:
(1) Costs for agricultural tillage equipment, used equipment, and vehicles;
(2) Construction or equipment costs that would be incurred regardless of the installation of a RES or EEI.
(3) Lease payments, including lease to own or capitalized leases;
(4) Any project cost that creates a conflict of interest or an appearance of a conflict of interest as provided in § 4280.106;
(5) Funds used for political or lobbying activities; and
(6) Funds used to pay off any Federal direct or guaranteed loans or other Federal debts.
(e)
Award amount considerations.
In determining the amount of a RES or EEI grant awarded, the Agency will take into consideration the following six criteria:
(1) The type of RES to be purchased;
(2) The estimated quantity of energy to be generated by the RES;
(3) The expected environmental benefits of the RES;
(4) The quantity of energy savings expected to be derived from the activity, as certified by the vendor/installer as applicable, or demonstrated by an energy audit or energy assessment;
(5) The estimated period of time for the energy savings generated by the activity to equal the cost of the activity; and
(6) The expected energy efficiency of the RES.
§ 4280.116
Grant applications—general.
(a)
General.
Separate applications must be submitted for RES and EEI projects. An original, hardcopy or electronic, of each application is required.
(b)
Application content.
Applications for RES projects or EEI projects must contain the information specified in § 4280.118 unless the requirements of either § 4280.119(a) or § 4280.120(a) are met. If the requirements of § 4280.119(a) are met, the application may contain the information specified in § 4280.119(b). If the requirements of § 4280.120(a) are met, the application may contain the information specified in § 4280.120(b). For RES Projects only, the Agency may require a feasibility study based on the scope of the project to the applicant's overall operations, including new facilities with significant impacts on an existing operation, or when the application information or technical report does not provide sufficient documentation and analysis of the project's engineering, technical, financial, or market feasibility, or the economic viability of the project including any feedstock or off-take agreements, that are needed to evaluate whether a project will be successful. The elements of an acceptable feasibility study may vary by project scope and should be prepared by a qualified and independent third party.
(c)
Evaluation of applications.
The Agency will evaluate each RES and EEI grant application and make a determination as to whether the application meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4).
(1) The application is complete, as defined in § 4280.103;
(2) The Applicant is eligible according to § 4280.112;
(3) The project is eligible according to § 4280.113; and
(4) The proposed project has technical merit as determined under § 4280.117.
§ 4280.117
Determination of technical merit.
The Agency will determine the technical merit of all proposed projects for which complete applications are submitted under §§ 4280.118, 4280.119, and 4280.120 under this subpart using the procedures specified in this section. Only projects that have been determined by the Agency to have technical merit are eligible for funding under this subpart.
(a)
General.
The Agency will use the information provided in the applicant's application and/or technical report to determine whether or not the project has technical merit. In making this determination, the Agency may engage the services of other Government agencies or other recognized industry experts in the applicable technology field, at its discretion, to evaluate and rate the technical report. The technical report can also be provided in the technical feasibility section of the feasibility study, when required, instead of completing a separate technical report.
(b)
Technical report areas.
The areas that the Agency will evaluate in the technical reports when making the technical merit determination are specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1)
EEI whose total project costs are $80,000 or less.
The following areas will be evaluated in making the technical merit determination:
(i) Project description;
(ii) Qualifications of EEI provider(s); and
(iii) Vender/Installer certification, energy assessment, or energy audit.
(2)
RES whose total project costs are $80,000 or less.
The following areas will be evaluated in making the technical merit determination:
(i) Project description;
(ii) Resource assessment;
(iii) Project economic assessment; and
(iv) Qualifications of key service providers.
(3)
EEI whose total project costs are greater than $80,000.
The following areas will be evaluated in making the technical merit determination:
(i) Project information;
(ii) Energy assessment or energy audit; and
(iii) Qualifications of the contractor or installers.
(4)
RES whose total project costs are less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
The following areas will be evaluated in making the technical merit determination:
(i) Project description;
(ii) Resource assessment;
(iii) Project economic assessment;
(iv) Project construction and equipment; and
(v) Qualifications of key service providers.
(5)
RES whose total project costs are $200,000 and greater.
The following areas will be evaluated in making the technical merit determination:
(i) Qualifications of the project team;
(ii) Agreements and permits;
(iii) Resource assessment;
(iv) Design and engineering;
(v) Project development;
(vi) Equipment procurement and installation; and
(vii) Operations and maintenance.
(c)
Pass/Pass with conditions/fail assignments.
The Agency will assign each area of the technical report, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, a “pass,” “pass with conditions,” or “fail.” An area will receive a “pass” if the information provided for the area has no weaknesses and meets or exceeds any requirements specified for the area. An area will receive a “pass with conditions” if the information provided for the area has minor weaknesses which could be conditionalized and reasonably resolved by the applicant. Otherwise, if the information provided for the area is conclusively deemed to be a major weakness or if the area has not been addressed by the applicant, the area will receive a “fail.”
(d)
Determination.
The Agency will compile the results for each area of the technical report to determine if the project has technical merit.
(1) A project whose technical report receives a “pass” in each of the applicable technical report areas will be considered to have “technical merit.”
(2) A project whose technical report receives a “pass with conditions” in one or more the applicable areas will be considered to have “conditional technical merit.”
(3) A project whose technical report receives a “fail” in any one technical report area will be considered to be without technical merit.
(e)
Further processing of applications.
A project that is determined to have “technical merit” or “conditional technical merit” is eligible for further consideration for funding. Projects with “conditional technical merit” would be subject to funding conditions that would need to be met to ensure full technical merit prior to completion of the project. A project that is determined to be “without technical merit” is considered to be an incomplete application and therefore is not eligible to compete for funding.
§ 4280.118
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $200,000 and greater.
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $200,000 and greater must provide the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, as applicable. Each applicant is encouraged, but is not required, to self-score the project using the evaluation criteria in § 4280.121.
(a)
Forms and certifications.
Each application must contain the forms and certifications specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10), as applicable, of this section, except paragraph (a)(5) is optional.
(1) Form RD 4280-3C, “Application for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvement Projects Total Project Costs of $200,000 or Greater”.
(2) Form SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”
(3) Form SF-424C, “Budget Information—Construction Programs.”
(4) Form SF-424D, “Assurances—Construction Programs.”
(5) Identify the ethnicity, race, and gender of the applicant. Identify if the borrower is a veteran. This information
is optional and is not required for a complete application but may be used by the Agency to award priority points.
(6) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. The applicant should contact the Agency to determine what documentation is required to be provided.
(7) The applicant must identify whether or not the applicant has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee. If there is a known relationship, the applicant must identify each Agency employee with whom the applicant has a known relationship.
(8) Certification that the applicant is a legal entity in good standing (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe(s) where the applicant has a place of business.
(9) Certification by the applicant that the equipment required for the project is available, can be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule, and will be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements. This would not be applicable when equipment is not part of the project.
(10) Certification by the applicant that the project will be constructed in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards.
(b)
Applicant information.
Provide information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section to allow the Agency to determine the eligibility of the applicant.
(1)
Type of applicant.
Eligible applicants must meet the definition of agricultural producer or rural small business as defined in § 4280.103. Agricultural producers seeking funding for a RES or EEI project may apply as either a rural small business or as an agricultural producer, provided they meet the applicable eligibility requirements. The applicant must provide the primary North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code applicable to the applicant's business concern and certify on the Agency approved application form that they meet the definition of agricultural producer or rural small business. The Agency reserves the right to request supporting documentation to verify applicant eligibility.
(2)
Applicant description.
Describe the ownership of the applicant, including the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section as applicable. Include a description of the applicant's farm/ranch/business operation, including how long the applicant has been in operation.
(i) Describe how the applicant meets the ownership and control requirements as identified in § 4280.112(b).
(ii) For each entity(ies) it controls or entity(ies) it is controlled by, provide a list of the individual owners with their contact information. Describe the relationship between the applicant and the other entity(ies), including percent ownership and control, management, passive investor ownership, and as applicable products exchanged. Organizational charts to demonstrate structure should be submitted when applicable.
(3)
Financial information.
Financial information is required on the total operation of the applicant and all entity(ies) it controls or entity(ies) that control the applicant.
(i) All financial information (
e.g.,
financial statements, balance sheets, financial projections, income statements) must be submitted in accordance with accounting practices acceptable to the Agency. Such practices can include, but are not limited to, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the industry's standard accounting practice.
(ii) For sole proprietorships and other situations where business assets are held personally, financial statements must be prepared using only the assets and liabilities directly attributable to the business. Assets, plus any improvements must be valued at the lower of cost or market value.
(iii) The Agency may request additional financial statements, financial models, cash flow information, updated financial statements, and other related financial information to determine the financial feasibility of a Project. Required financial statements:
(A)
Historical financial statements.
Provide Agency-acceptable historical balance sheets and income statements
the lesser of the last 3 fiscal years or all years of operation.
(B)
Current balance sheet and income statement.
Provide a current Agency-acceptable balance sheet and year-to-date income statement dated within 90 days of submission of the complete application.
(C)
Pro forma financial statements.
Provide balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements or financial model starting from the current financial statements through a minimum of 2 years of the project performing at full operational capacity or stable operations. Financial projections must be supported by a list of assumptions showing the basis for the projections.
(4)
Previous grants and loans.
State whether the applicant has received and accepted any grants or guaranteed loan commitments under this subpart or any guaranteed loans under 7 CFR 5001. If the applicant has, identify each such grant award or guaranteed loan commitment and describe the progress the applicant has made on each project for which the grant or loan was received, including projected schedules and actual completion dates.
(c)
Project information.
Provide information concerning the proposed project as a whole and its relationship to the applicant's operations, including the following:
(1) Identification as to whether the project is for a RES or an EEI project. Include a description and the location of the project.
(2) A description of the process that will be used to conduct all procurement transactions to demonstrate compliance with § 4280.125(a)(1).
(3) Indicate if the proposed project will have a positive effect on resource conservation (
e.g.,
water, soil, forest), public health (
e.g.,
potable water, air quality), and the environment (
e.g.,
compliance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) renewable fuel standard(s), greenhouse gases, emissions, particulate matter).
(4) Identify the amount of funds and the source(s) the applicant is proposing to use for the project. Provide written commitments for funds at the time the application is submitted to receive points under this scoring criterion.
(i) If financial resources come from the applicant, documentation may include bank statements that demonstrates availability of funds.
(ii) If a third party is providing financial assistance, the applicant must submit a commitment letter signed by an authorized official of the third party. The letter must be specific to the project and must identify the dollar amount and any applicable rates and terms. If the third-party commitment is a loan, the commitment must be firm; a letter-of-intent or pre-qualification letter subject to underwriting requirements or contingencies are not acceptable. An acceptable condition may be based on the receipt of the REAP grant or an appraisal.
(d)
Technical report.
Each application must contain a technical report prepared in accordance with § 4280.110(g) and Appendix A or C, as applicable, of this subpart.
(e)
Construction planning and performing development.
Each application submitted must be in accordance with § 4280.125 for planning, designing, bidding, contracting, and constructing RES and EEI projects as applicable.
§ 4280.119
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000, may provide the information specified in this section or, if the applicant elects to do so, the information specified in § 4280.118. In order to submit an application under this section, the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section must be met. The content for applications submitted under this section is specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the construction planning and performing development procedures and the payment process that will be used for awards for applications submitted under this section are specified in paragraphs (c) and (d), respectively, of this section.
(a)
Criteria for submitting applications for projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
In order to submit an application under
this section, each of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section must be met.
(1) The applicant must be eligible in accordance with § 4280.112.
(2) The project must be eligible in accordance with § 4280.113.
(3) Total project costs must be less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
(4) Construction planning and performing development must be performed in compliance with paragraph (c) of this section. The applicant or the applicant's prime contractor assumes all risks and responsibilities of project development.
(5) The applicant or the applicant's prime contractor is responsible for all interim financing, including during construction.
(6) The applicant agrees not to request reimbursement from funds obligated under this program until after project completion and is operating in accordance with the information provided in the application for the project.
(7) The applicant must maintain insurance as required under § 4280.123(b), except business interruption insurance is not required.
(b)
Application content.
Applications submitted under this section must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. Each applicant is encouraged, but is not required, to self-score the project using the evaluation criteria in § 4280.121.
(1)
Forms and certifications.
The application must contain the items identified in § 4280.118(a), except that Form RD 4280-3B, “Application for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvement Projects Total Project Costs of Less than $200,000, But More Than $80,000” may be used instead of the form noted in § 4280.118 (a)(1). In addition, the applicant must submit a certification that the applicant meets each of the criteria for submitting an application under this section as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Applicant information.
The application must contain the items identified in § 4280.118(b), except that the information specified in § 4280.118(b)(3) is not required. The Agency reserves the right to request supporting documentation to verify applicant eligibility.
(3)
Project information.
The application must contain the items identified in § 4280.118(c).
(4)
Technical report.
Each application must contain a technical report in accordance with § 4280.110(g) and Appendix A or B, as applicable, of this subpart.
(c)
Construction planning and performing development.
Applicants submitting applications under this section must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section for construction planning and performing development.
(1)
General.
Paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (4) of § 4280.125 apply.
(2)
Small acquisition and construction procedures.
Small acquisition and construction procedures are those relatively simple and informal procurement methods that are sound and appropriate for a procurement of services, equipment, and construction of a RES or EEI project with a total project cost of not more than $200,000. The applicant is solely responsible for the execution of all contracts under this procedure, and Agency review and approval is not required.
(3)
Contractor forms.
Applicants must have each contractor sign, as applicable:
(i) Form RD 400-6, “Compliance Statement,” for contracts exceeding $10,000; and
(ii) Form AD-1048, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions,” for contracts exceeding $25,000.
(d)
Payment process for applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of less than $200,000, but more than $80,000.
(1) Upon completion of the project, the grantee must submit to the Agency a copy of the contractor's certification of final completion for the project and a statement that the grantee accepts the work completed. At its discretion, the Agency may require the applicant to have an inspector certify that the project is constructed and installed correctly.
(2) The RES or EEI project must be constructed, installed, and operating as
described in the technical report prior to disbursement of funds. For RES, the system must be operating at the steady state operating level described in the technical report for a period of not less than 30 days, unless this requirement is modified by the Agency, prior to disbursement of funds. Any modification to the 30-day steady state operating level requirement will be based on the Agency's review of the technical report and will be incorporated into the Letter of Conditions.
(3) Prior to making payment, the Agency will be provided with Form RD 1924-9, “Certificate of Contractor's Release,” and Form RD 1924-10, “Release by Claimants,” or similar forms, executed by all persons who furnished materials or labor in connection with the contract.
§ 4280.120
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less.
Grant applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less must provide the information specified in this section or, if the applicant elects to do so, the information specified in either §§ 4280.118 or 4280.119. In order to submit an application under this section, the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section must be met. The content for applications submitted under this section is specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the construction planning and performing development procedures and the payment process that will be used for awards for applications submitted under this section are specified in paragraphs (c) and (d), respectively, of this section.
(a)
Criteria for submitting applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less.
In order to submit an application under this section, each of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section must be met.
(1) The applicant must be eligible in accordance with § 4280.112.
(2) The project must be eligible in accordance with § 4280.113.
(3) Total project costs must be $80,000 or less.
(4) Construction planning and performing development must be performed in compliance with paragraph (c) of this section. The applicant or the applicant's prime contractor assumes all risks and responsibilities of project development.
(5) The applicant or the applicant's prime contractor is responsible for all interim financing, including during construction.
(6) The applicant agrees not to request reimbursement from funds obligated under this program until after the project has been completed and is operating in accordance with the information provided in the application for the project.
(7) The applicant must maintain insurance as required under § 4280.123(b), except business interruption insurance is not required.
(b)
Application content.
Applications submitted under this section must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4), as applicable. Each applicant is encouraged, but is not required, to self-score the project using the evaluation criteria in § 4280.121.
(1)
Forms and certifications.
Each application must contain the forms and certifications specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (x), as applicable, of this section except that paragraph (b)(1)(v) is optional.
(i) Form RD 4280-3A, “Application for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvement Projects Total Project Costs of $80,000 or Less”.
(ii) Form SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance”.
(iii) Form SF-424C, “Budget Information for Construction Programs”.
(iv) Form SF-424D, “Assurances for Construction Programs”.
(v) Identify the ethnicity, race, and gender of the applicant. Identify if the borrower is a veteran. This information is optional and is not required for a complete application but may be used by the Agency to award priority points.
(vi) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. The applicant should contact the Agency to determine what documentation is required to be provided.
(vii) Certification by the applicant that:
(A) The applicant meets each of the applicant eligibility criteria found in § 4280.112. The Agency reserves the right to request supporting documentation to verify applicant eligibility;
(B) The proposed project meets each of the project eligibility requirements found in § 4280.113;
(C) The design, engineering, testing, and monitoring will be sufficient to demonstrate that the proposed project will meet its intended purpose;
(D) The equipment required for the project is available, can be procured and delivered within the proposed project development schedule, and will be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements. This would not be applicable when equipment is not part of the project;
(E) The project will be constructed in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, agreements, permits, codes, and standards;
(F) The applicant meets the criteria for submitting an application for projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less;
(G) The applicant will abide by the open and free competition requirements in compliance with § 4280.125(a)(1); and
(H) For bioenergy projects, any and all woody biomass feedstock from National Forest System land or public lands cannot be otherwise used as a higher value wood-based product.
(viii) State whether the applicant has received any grants and/or guaranteed loans under this subpart, or any guaranteed loans under 7 CFR part 5001. If the applicant has, identify each such grant and/or loan and describe the progress the applicant has made on each project for which the grant and/or loan was received, including projected schedules and actual completion dates.
(ix) The applicant must identify whether or not the applicant has a known relationship or association with an Agency employee. If there is a known relationship, the applicant must identify each Agency employee with whom the applicant has a known relationship.
(x) The applicant is a legal entity in good standing (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe where the applicant has a place of business.
(2)
General.
For both RES and EEI project applications:
(i) Identify whether the project is for a RES or an EEI project;
(ii) Identify the primary NAICS code applicable to the applicant's operation if known or a description of the operation in enough detail for the Agency to determine the primary NAICS code;
(iii) Indicate if the proposed project will have a positive effect on resource conservation (
e.g.,
water, soil, forest), public health (
e.g.,
potable water, air quality), and the environment (
e.g.,
compliance with the EPA's renewable fuel standard(s), greenhouse gases, emissions, particulate matter); and
(iv) Identify the amount of matching funds and other funds and the source(s) the applicant is proposing to use for the project. In order to receive points under this scoring criterion, written commitments for funds (
e.g.,
a Letter of commitment, bank statement) must be submitted when the application is submitted.
(A) If financial resources come from the applicant, documentation may include a bank statement that demonstrates availability of funds.
(B) If a third party is providing financial assistance, the applicant must submit a commitment letter signed by an authorized official of the third party. The letter must be specific to the project, identify the dollar amount and any applicable rates and terms. If the third-party commitment is a loan, the commitment must be firm, a letter-of-intent or pre-qualification letter, subject to underwriting requirements or contingencies are not acceptable. An acceptable condition may be based on the receipt of the REAP grant or an appraisal.
(3)
Technical report for EEI.
Each EEI application submitted under this section must include a technical report in accordance with § 4280.110(g) and paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Project description.
Provide a description of the proposed EEI, including its intended purpose and a vendor/
installer certification that the EEI project meets the requirements for being commercially available.
(ii)
Qualifications of EEI provider(s).
Provide a certification by the vendor/installer that:
(A) They are qualified to complete the project as intended, including the number of years of experience with the proposed EEI technology. Any contractor or installer with less than 2 years of experience may be required to provide additional information in order for the Agency to determine if they are a qualified installer/contractor.
(B) The EEI system will operate and perform over the project's useful life in a reliable and cost-effective manner; and
(iii)
Energy assessment.
Provide a copy of the energy assessment (or energy audit) performed for the project as required under Section C of Appendix A to this subpart and the qualifications of the person which completed the energy assessment.
(iv)
Simple payback.
Provide an estimate of simple payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions.
(4)
Technical report for RES.
Each RES application submitted under this section must include a technical report in accordance with § 4280.110(g) and paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Project description.
Provide a description of the project, including its intended purpose and a vendor/installer certification that the RES project meets the requirements for being commercially available. Appendix B contains instructions for how a project is to be constructed and installed. Identify the project's location and describe the project site.
(ii)
Resource assessment.
Provide vendor/installer certified projections on energy to be replaced and/or generated once the proposed system is operating at its steady state operating level, including the quality and availability of the renewable resource to the project. If there is a residence closely associated with the RES project, include the historical amount of energy used by the residence and the historical amount of energy used by the agricultural operation or rural small business, as applicable, to satisfactorily demonstrate 50% or more of proposed generation will benefit the agricultural operation or rural small business;
(iii)
Project economic assessment.
Describe the projected financial performance of the proposed project. The description must address total project costs, revenues accrued from the sale or crediting of energy, quantity and value of energy offset, and revenue from byproducts. Include applicable investment and other production incentives and indicate if they are a one time or reoccurring incentive. Provide an estimate of simple payback, including all calculations, documentation, and any assumptions; and
(iv)
Qualifications of key service providers.
Provide a certification by the vendor/installer that:
(A) They are qualified to complete the project as intended, including the number of similar systems installed previously and any professional credentials, licenses, and relevant experience. If specific numbers are not available for similar systems, you may submit an estimation of the number of similar systems; and
(B) The RES system will operate and perform over the project's useful life in a reliable and cost-effective manner.
(c)
Construction planning and performing development for applications submitted under this section.
All applicants submitting applications under this section must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section for construction planning and performing development.
(1)
General.
Paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (4) of § 4280.125 apply.
(2)
Small acquisition and construction procedures.
Small acquisition and construction procedures are those relatively simple and informal procurement methods that are sound and appropriate for a procurement of services, equipment and construction of a RES or EEI project with a total project cost of not more than $80,000. The applicant is solely responsible for the execution of all contracts under this procedure, and Agency review and approval is not required.
(3)
Contractor forms.
Applicants must have each contractor sign, as applicable:
(i) Form RD 400-6, “Compliance Statement” for contracts exceeding $10,000; and
(ii) Form AD-1048, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion lower Tier Covered Transactions” for contracts exceeding $25,000.
(d)
Payment process for applications for RES and EEI projects with total project costs of $80,000 or less.
(1) Upon completion of the project, the grantee must submit to the Agency a copy of the contractor's certification of final completion for the project and a statement that the grantee accepts the work completed. At its discretion, the Agency may require the applicant to have an inspector certify that the project is constructed and installed correctly.
(2) The RES or EEI project must be constructed, installed, and currently be operating as described in the technical report prior to disbursement of funds. For RES, the system must be operating at the steady state operating level described in the technical report for a period of not less than 30 days, unless this requirement is modified by the Agency, prior to disbursement of funds. Any modification to the 30-day steady state operating level requirement will be based on the Agency's review of the technical report and will be incorporated into the Letter of Conditions.
(3) Prior to making payment, the grantee must provide the Agency with Form RD 1924-9 and Form RD 1924-10, or similar forms, executed by all persons who furnished materials or labor in connection with the contract.
§ 4280.121
Scoring RES and EEI grant applications.
Agency personnel will score each complete and eligible RES and EEI application based on the scoring criteria specified in this section, unless otherwise specified in a
Federal Register
notice, with a maximum score of 100 points possible.
(a)
Environmental benefits.
A maximum of 5 points will be awarded for this criterion based on whether the applicant has indicated in the application that the proposed project will have a positive effect on resource conservation (
e.g.,
water, soil, forest), public health (
e.g.,
potable water, air quality), and the environment (
e.g.,
compliance with EPA's renewable fuel standard(s), greenhouse gases, emissions, particulate matter). If the project will have a positive impact on:
(1) Any one of the three impact areas, 1 point will be awarded.
(2) Any two of the three impact areas, 3 points will be awarded.
(3) All three impact areas, 5 points will be awarded.
(b)
Energy generated, replaced, or saved.
A maximum of 25 points will be awarded for this criterion. Applications for RES and EEI projects are eligible for points under both paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Quantity of energy generated or saved per REAP grant dollar requested.
A maximum of 10 points will be awarded for this sub-criterion. For RES and EEI projects, points will be awarded for either the amount of renewable energy generation per grant dollar requested, which includes those projects that are replacing energy usage with a renewable source; or the actual annual average energy savings over the most recent 12, 24, 36, 48, or 60 consecutive months of operation per grant dollar requested. Points will not be awarded for more than one category.
(i)
RES.
The quantity of energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested will be determined by dividing the projected total annual energy generated or replaced by the RES or RES retrofit (minus energy for residential use), which will be converted to BTUs, by the grant dollars requested. Points will be awarded based on the annual amount of energy generated or replaced (minus energy for residential use) per grant dollar requested for the proposed RES project. In cases where there are ineligible pre-application costs, the entire quantity of energy produced by the system is utilized for this scoring criteria as long as the use of energy produced is eligible. The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined using paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section. If the annual amount of energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested is:
(A) 50,000 BTUs average annual energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested or higher, 10 points will be awarded; or
(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs annual energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested, points will be awarded according to the results of taking the energy generated or replaced per grant dollar requested/50,000 × 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.
(ii)
EEI.
The Agency will award up to 10 points under this sub-criterion based on the average annual energy saved per grant dollar requested for the EEI project. The Agency will award up to 10 points as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. If the average annual energy saved per grant dollar requested is:
(A) 50,000 BTUs average annual energy saved per grant dollar requested or higher, 10 points will be awarded; or
(B) Less than 50,000 BTUs average annual energy saved per grant dollar requested, points will be awarded according to the result of taking the energy saved per grant dollar requested/50,000 × 10 points. The points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.
(2)
Quantity of energy replaced, generated, or saved.
A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this sub-criterion. Points will be awarded on the basis of whether the project is for energy replacement, energy savings, or energy generation; points will not be awarded for more than one category.
(i)
Energy replacement.
The Agency will award points under this sub-criterion for a RES project based on the amount of energy replaced by the project compared to the amount of energy used by the applicable process(es) over a 12-month period. If the estimated energy produced is more than 150 percent of the energy used by the applicable process(es), the project will be scored as an energy generation project under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(A)
Documentation for energy replacement.
For a RES project to qualify as energy replacement, the applicant must provide documentation in its application on prior energy use incurred by the applicant. Proposed energy use, such as that attributed to an expansion, is not considered in the replacement calculation. For a RES project involving new construction and being installed to serve the new facility, the project can be classified as energy replacement only if the applicant can document prior energy use from a facility that is within plus or minus 10 percent of the size of the facility it is replacing. The estimated quantities of energy must be converted to either BTUs, watts, or similar energy equivalents to facilitate scoring.
(B)
Calculation.
Energy replacement is determined by dividing the quantity of renewable energy that the RES project is estimated would have been generated if it were in place over the most recent 12-month period by the quantity of energy actually consumed over the same period by the applicable energy process(es) that is(are) consuming energy.
(C)
Awarding of points.
Using the results from paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, if the percentage of energy replacement is:
(
1
) Greater than 50 percent, 15 points will be awarded;
(
2
) Greater than 25 percent, but equal to or less than 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded; or
(
3
) Equal to or less than 25 percent, 5 points will be awarded.
(ii)
Energy generation.
If the proposed RES is intended for production of energy or is a proposed retrofitting of an existing RES which increases the amount of energy generated, the Agency will award 10 points.
(iii)
Energy saved.
The Agency will award up to 15 points under this sub-criterion for an EEI project based on the percentage of estimated energy saved by the installation of the project as determined by the projections in the applicable energy assessment or energy audit. If the estimated energy expected to be saved over the same period used in the energy assessment or energy audit, as applicable, will be:
(A) 50 percent or greater, 15 points will be awarded;
(B) 35 percent up to, but not including 50 percent, 10 points will be awarded;
(C) 20 percent up to, but not including 35 percent, 5 points will be awarded; or
(D) Less than 20 percent, no points will be awarded.
(c)
Commitment of funds.
A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the percentage of written commitment an applicant has from its fund sources that are documented with a complete application.
(1)
Calculation.
The percentage of written commitment is calculated as follows: Percentage of written commitment = total amount of funds for which written commitments have been submitted with the application/total amount of matching funds and other funds required.
(2)
Awarding of points.
Using the result from paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Agency will award points as shown in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) If the percentage of written commitments is 100 percent of the matching funds, 15 points will be awarded.
(ii) If the percentage of written commitments is less than 100 percent, but more than 50 percent, points will be awarded as follows: ((Percentage of written commitments −50 percent)/(50 percent)) × 15 points, where points awarded are rounded to the nearest hundredth of a point.
(iii) If the percentage of written commitments is 50 percent or less, no points will be awarded.
(d)
Previous grantees and borrowers.
A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on whether the applicant has received and accepted a REAP grant award or guaranteed loan commitment under 7 CFR part 4280 of this title or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 5001 of this title.
(1) If the applicant has never received and accepted a grant award or a guaranteed loan commitment under either this part or 7 CFR part 5001 of this title, 15 points will be awarded.
(2) If the applicant has not received and accepted a grant award or guaranteed loan commitment under this subpart, or a guaranteed loan commitment under 7 CFR part 5001 of this title within the 2 previous Federal fiscal years, 5 points will be awarded.
(3) If the applicant has received a grant award or guaranteed loan commitment under this subpart, or a guaranteed loan commitment under 7 CFR part 5001 of this title within the 2 previous Federal fiscal years, no points will be awarded.
(e)
Existing business.
A maximum of 5 points will be awarded for an existing agricultural producer business or rural small business that meets the definition of existing business in § 4280.103 of this part.
(f)
Simple payback.
A maximum of 15 points will be awarded for this criterion based on the simple payback of the project as defined in § 4280.103. Points will be awarded for either RES or EEI; points will not be awarded for more than one category.
(1)
RES.
If the simple payback of the proposed project is:
(i) Less than 10 years, 15 points will be awarded;
(ii) 10 years up to but not including 15 years, 10 points will be awarded;
(iii) 15 years up to and including 25 years, 5 points will be awarded; or
(iv) Longer than 25 years, no points will be awarded.
(2)
EEI.
If the simple payback of the proposed project is:
(i) Less than 4 years, 15 points will be awarded;
(ii) 4 years up to but not including 8 years, 10 points will be awarded;
(iii) 8 years up to and including 12 years, 5 points will be awarded; or
(iv) Longer than 12 years, no points will be awarded.
(g)
Size of request.
For grant applications requesting $250,000 or less for RES, or $125,000 or less for EEI, an additional 10 points may be awarded such that a maximum score of 100 points is possible. All other applications will have a maximum possible score of 90 points.
(h)
State Director and Administrator priority points.
A maximum of 10 points are available for this criterion. A State Director, for its State allocation under this subpart, or the Administrator, for making awards from the National Office reserve, may award up to 10 points to an application based on the conditions specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section. In no case
shall an application receive more than 10 points under this criterion.
(1) The application is for an under-represented technology.
(2) Selecting the application helps achieve geographic diversity, which may include points based upon the size of the funding request.
(3) The applicant is a member of an unserved or under-served population described as follows:
(i) Owned by a veteran, including but not limited to individuals as sole proprietors, members, partners, stockholders, etc., of not less than 20 percent. In order to receive points, applicants must provide a statement in their applications to indicate that owners of the project have Veteran status; or
(ii) Owned by a member of a socially-disadvantaged group, which are groups whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. In order to receive points, the application must include a statement to indicate that the owners of the project are members of a socially disadvantaged group.
(4) Selecting the application helps further a Presidential initiative or a Secretary of Agriculture priority.
(5) The proposed project is located in a Federally declared disaster area. Declarations must be within the last 2 calendar years.
(6) The proposed project is located in an area where 20 percent or more of its population is living in poverty, as defined by the United States Census Bureau, underserved community(ies) or has experienced long-term population decline, or loss of employment.
§ 4280.122
Selecting RES and EEI grant applications for award.
Unless otherwise provided for in a
Federal Register
notice, RES and EEI grant applications will be processed in accordance with this section. Complete applications will be evaluated, processed, and subsequently ranked, and will compete for funding, subject to the availability of grant funding. Each State will receive two grant allocations, an allocation of grant funds restricted to funding requests of $20,000 or less, and an allocation of grant funds which are unrestricted and can fund any size funding request.
(a)
RES and EEI grant applications.
Complete RES and EEI grant applications, including combination grant and guaranteed loan requests, regardless of the amount of funding requested, are eligible to compete in two competitions within a Federal fiscal year—a State competition and a National competition.
(1) To be competed in the State and National competitions, complete applications must be received by the applicable State Office by 4:30 p.m. local time no later than March 31. If March 31 falls on a non-business day or a federally-observed holiday, the next Federal business day will be considered the last day for receipt of a complete application. Complete applications received after this date and time will be processed in the subsequent fiscal year.
(2) All eligible RES and EEI grant applications that remain unfunded after completion of the State competition will be competed in a National competition.
(b)
RES and EEI grant applications requesting $20,000 or less.
Complete RES and EEI grant applications, including combination grant and guaranteed loan requests, requesting $20,000 or less are eligible to compete in up to five competitions—two State competitions and a National set-aside competition for grants of $20,000 or less, as well as the two competitions referenced in paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) For complete RES and EEI grant applications for grants requesting $20,000 or less, there will be two State competitions each Federal fiscal year. Complete applications for $20,000 or less that are received by the Agency by 4:30 p.m. local time on October 31 of the Federal fiscal year will be competed against each other. Complete applications for $20,000 or less that are received by the Agency by 4:30 p.m. local time on March 31 of the Federal fiscal year and any applications for $20,000 or less that were not ready to compete or were not funded from the prior competition, will be competed against each other. If either October 31 or March 31
falls on a weekend or a federally observed holiday, the next Federal business day will be considered the last day for receipt of a complete application. Complete applications received after 4:30 p.m. local time on March 31, regardless of the postmark on the application, will be processed in the subsequent fiscal year.
(2) All eligible RES and EEI grant applications requesting $20,000 or less that remain unfunded after completion of the State competition for applications received by March 31 will be competed in the National competition.
(c)
Ranking of applications.
The Agency will rank complete eligible applications using the scoring criteria specific in § 4280.121. Higher scoring applications will receive first consideration.
(d)
Funding selected applications.
As applications are funded, if insufficient funds remain to fund the next highest scoring application, the Agency may elect to fund a lower scoring application. Before this occurs, the Agency will provide the applicant of the higher scoring application the opportunity to reduce the amount of the applicant's grant request to the amount of funds available. If the applicant agrees to lower its grant request, the applicant must certify that the purposes of the project will be met and provide the remaining total funds needed to complete the project. If two or more applications score the same and if remaining funds are insufficient to fund each such application, the Agency will notify the applicants that they may either accept a proportional amount of funds or submit their total request for the next available competition. At its discretion, the Agency may also elect to allow any remaining multi-year funds to be carried over to the next fiscal year rather than selecting a lower scoring application.
(e)
Handling of ranked applications not funded.
Based on the availability of funding, a ranked application might not be funded. Handling of unfunded applications depends on whether the request is more or less than $20,000.
(1) All complete and eligible applications requesting $20,000 or less may be competed in up to five competitions within a Federal fiscal year and if not selected for funding, the Agency will discontinue consideration of the applications.
(2) The Agency will discontinue consideration for funding all complete and eligible applications requesting more than $20,000 that are not selected for funding after the State and National competitions for the Federal fiscal year.
(f)
Commencement of the project.
Not all grant applications that compete for funding will receive an award. Thus, the applicant assumes all risks if the applicant chooses to purchase the proposed equipment or start construction of the proposed project after the complete application has been received by the Agency, but before the applicant is notified as to whether or not they have been selected for an award.
§ 4280.123
Awarding and administering RES and EEI grants.
The Agency will award and administer RES and EEI grants in accordance with Departmental Regulations and with paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(a)
Letter of Conditions.
A Letter of Conditions will be prepared by the Agency, establishing conditions that must be agreed to by the applicant before any obligation of funds can occur. Upon reviewing the conditions and requirements in the Letter of Conditions, the applicant must complete, sign, and return the Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions,” and Form RD 1940-1, “Request for Obligation of Funds,” to the Agency if they accept the conditions of the grant; or if certain conditions cannot be met, the applicant may propose alternate conditions to the Agency. The Agency must concur with any changes proposed to the Letter of Conditions by the applicant before the application will be further processed.
(b)
Insurance requirements.
Agency approved insurance coverage must be maintained for 3 years after the Agency has approved the final performance report unless this requirement is waived or modified by the Agency in writing. Insurance coverage shall include, but is not limited to:
(1) Property insurance, such as fire and extended coverage, will normally
be maintained on all structures and equipment.
(2) Liability.
(3) National flood insurance is required in accordance with 7 CFR part 1806, subpart B, if applicable.
(4) Business interruption insurance for projects with total project costs of more than $200,000.
(c)
Forms and certifications.
The forms specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section will be attached to the Letter of Conditions referenced in paragraph (a) of this section. The forms specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section and all of the certifications must be submitted prior to grant approval. The form specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, which is to be completed by contractors, does not need to be returned to the Agency, but must be kept on file by the grantee.
(1) Form RD 1942-46, “Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions.”
(2) Form RD 1940-1.
(3) Form SF-LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,” if the grant exceeds $100,000 and/or if the grantee has made or agreed to make payment using funds other than Federal appropriated funds to influence or attempt to influence a decision in connection with the application.
(4) Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement,” or successor form.
(5) Form AD-1048, as signed by the contractor or other lower tier party.
(d)
Evidence of matching funds and other funds.
If an applicant submitted written evidence of matching funds and other funds with the application, the applicant is responsible for ensuring that such written evidence is still in effect (
i.e.,
not expired) when the grant is executed. If the applicant did not submit written evidence of matching funds and other funds with the application, the applicant must submit such written evidence that is in effect before the Agency will execute the Financial Assistance Agreement. In either case, written evidence of matching funds and other funds needed to complete the project must be provided to the Agency before execution of the Financial Assistance Agreement and must be in effect (
i.e.,
must not have expired) at the time Financial Assistance Agreement is executed.
(e)
System for Award Management (SAM) registration.
Before the Financial Assistance Agreement can be executed, the applicant's UEI number must be registered in the SAM and a valid (
e.g.
non-expired) Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code must be submitted to the Agency.
(f)
Financial Assistance Agreement.
Once the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section have been met, the Financial Assistance Agreement can be executed by the grantee and the Agency. The Agreement should be signed as soon as possible, but no later than within 6 months of obligation of funds or grant funds may be de-obligated by the Agency. The grantee must abide by all requirements contained in the Financial Assistance Agreement, this subpart, and any other applicable Federal statutes or regulations. Failure to follow these requirements might result in termination of the grant and adoption of other available remedies.
(g)
Grant approval.
The grantee will be sent a copy of the executed Form RD 1940-1 and the Financial Assistance Agreement.
(h)
Power purchase agreement.
Where applicable, the grantee shall provide to the Agency a copy of the executed power purchase agreement within 12 months from the date that the Financial Assistance Agreement is executed, unless otherwise approved by the Agency.
§ 4280.124
Servicing RES and EEI grants.
The Agency will service RES and EEI grants in accordance with the requirements specified in Departmental Regulations; 7 CFR part 3; 7 CFR 1951 Subparts E and O; the Financial Assistance Agreement; and paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section.
(a)
Inspections.
Grantees must permit periodic inspection of the project records and operations by a representative of the Agency.
(b)
Programmatic changes.
Grantees may make changes to an approved project's costs, scope, contractor, or vendor subject to the provisions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of
this section. If the changes result in lowering the project's score to below what would have qualified the application for award, the Agency will not approve the changes.
(1)
Prior approval.
The grantee must obtain prior Agency approval for any change to the scope, contractor, or vendor of the approved project. Changes in project cost will require Agency approval as outlined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.
(i) Grantees must submit requests for programmatic changes in writing to the Agency for Agency approval.
(ii) Failure to obtain prior Agency approval of any such change could result in such remedies as suspension, termination, and recovery of grant funds.
(iii) Prior Agency approval is required for all increases in project costs. Prior Agency approval is required for a decrease in project cost only if the decrease would have a negative effect on the long-term viability of the project. A decrease in project cost that does not have a negative impact on long-term viability requires Agency review and approval prior to disbursement of funds.
(2)
Changes in project cost or scope.
If there is a significant change in project cost or any change in project scope, then the grantee's funding needs, eligibility, and scoring, as applicable, will be reassessed. Decreases in Agency funds will be based on revised project costs and other factors, including Agency regulations used at the time of grant approval.
(3)
Change of contractor or vendor.
When seeking a change, the grantee must submit to the Agency a written request for approval. The proposed contractor or vendor must have qualifications and experience acceptable to the Agency. The written request must contain sufficient information, which may include a revised technical report as required under § 4280.118(e), 4280.119(b)(4), 4280.120(b)(3), or 4280.120(b)(4), as applicable, to demonstrate to the Agency's satisfaction that such change maintains project integrity. If the Agency determines that project integrity continues to be demonstrated, the grantee may make the change. If the Agency determines that project integrity is no longer demonstrated, the change will not be approved and the grantee has the following options: Continue with the original contractor or vendor; find another contractor or vendor that has qualifications and experience acceptable to the Agency to complete the project; or terminate the grant by providing a written request to the Agency. No additional funding will be available from the Agency if costs for the project have increased. The Agency decision will be provided in writing.
(c)
Transfer of ownership.
After the Financial Assistance Agreement for the project has been executed, the grantee may request, in writing, a transfer of the Financial Assistance Agreement to another entity. Subject to Agency approval provided in writing, the Financial Assistance Agreement may be transferred to another entity provided:
(1) The entity is determined by the Agency to be an eligible entity under this subpart; and
(2) The type of RES or EEI technology and the scope of the project for which the Agency funds will be used remain unchanged.
(d)
Disposition of acquired property.
Grantees must abide by the disposition requirements outlined in Departmental Regulations.
(e)
Financial management system and records.
The grantee must provide for financial management systems and maintain records as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Financial management system.
The grantee will provide for a financial system that will include:
(i) Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of each grant;
(ii) Records that identify adequately the source and application of funds for grant-supporting activities, together with documentation to support the records. Those records must contain information pertaining to grant awards and authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income; and
(iii) Effective control over and accountability for all funds. The grantee
must adequately safeguard all such assets and must ensure that funds are used solely for authorized purposes.
(2)
Records.
The grantee will retain financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at least 3 years after completion of grant activities except that the records must be retained beyond the 3-year period if audit findings have not been resolved or if directed by the United States. The Agency and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, must have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the grantee that are pertinent to the specific grant for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcripts.
(f)
Audit requirements.
If applicable, grantees must provide an annual audit in accordance with 7 CFR part 3052. The Agency may exercise its right to do a program audit after the end of the project to ensure that all funding supported eligible project costs.
(g)
Grant disbursement.
As applicable, grantees must disburse grant funds as scheduled in accordance with the appropriate construction and inspection requirements in §§ 4280.119, 4280.120 or 4280.125 as applicable. Unless required by third parties providing cost sharing payments to be provided on a pro-rata basis with other funds, grant funds will be disbursed after all other funds have been expended.
(1) Unless authorized by the Agency to do so, grantees may submit requests for reimbursement no more frequently than monthly. Ordinarily, payment will be made within 30 days after receipt of a proper request for reimbursement.
(2) Grantees must not request reimbursement for the Federal share of amounts withheld from contractors to ensure satisfactory completion of work until after it makes those payments.
(3) Payments will be made by electronic funds transfer.
(4) Grantees must use SF-271, “Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs,” or other format prescribed by the Agency to request grant reimbursements. Fund requests must at a minimum include documentation of costs and evidence of payment(s), including payment date(s). Failure to provide sufficient documentation of costs and evidence of payment, including payment date, may result in denied reimbursement.
(5) For a grant awarded to a project with total project costs of $200,000 and greater, grant funds will be disbursed in full after the project is completed, is operational, and has met or exceeded the steady state operating level as set out in the grant award requirements. Grant funds may also be disbursed through 90 percent of grant disbursement. The final 10 percent of grant funds will be held by the Agency until construction of the project is completed, the project is operational, and the project has met or exceeded the steady state operating level as set out in the grant award requirements. In addition, the Agency reserves the right to request additional information or testing if upon a final site visit or review of documentation, the 30-day steady state operating level is not found acceptable to the Agency.
(h)
Monitoring of project.
Grantees are responsible for ensuring that all activities are performed within the approved scope of work and that funds are only used for approved purposes.
(1) Grantees shall constantly monitor performance to ensure that:
(i) Time schedules are being met;
(ii) Projected work is being accomplished by projected time periods;
(iii) Financial resources are being appropriately expended by contractors (if applicable); and
(iv) Any other performance objectives identified in the scope of work are being achieved.
(2) To the extent that resources are available, the Agency will monitor grantees to ensure that activities are performed in accordance with the Agency-approved scope of work and to ensure that funds are expended for approved purposes. The Agency's monitoring of grantees neither:
(i) Relieves the grantee of its responsibilities to ensure that activities are performed within the scope of work approved by the Agency and that funds are expended for approved purposes only; nor
(ii) Provides recourse or a defense to the grantee should the grantee conduct unapproved activities, engage in unethical conduct, engage in activities that are or that give the appearance of a conflict of interest, or expend funds for unapproved purposes.
(i)
Reporting requirements.
Financial and project performance reports must be provided by grantees and contain the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Federal financial reports.
Between grant approval and completion of project (
i.e.,
construction), SF-425, “Federal Financial Report” will be required of all grantees as applicable on a semiannual basis. The grantee will complete the project within the total sums available to it, including the grant, in accordance with the scope of work and any necessary modifications thereof prepared by grantee and approved by the Agency.
(2)
Project performance reports.
Between grant approval and completion of project (
i.e.,
construction), grantees must provide semiannual project performance reports and a final project development report containing the information specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. These reports are due 30 working days after June 30 and December 31 of each year.
(i)
Semiannual project performance reports.
Each semiannual project performance report must include the following:
(A) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives for that period;
(B) Reasons why established objectives were not met, if applicable;
(C) Reasons for any problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will affect attainment of overall program objectives, prevent meeting time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular objectives during established time periods. This disclosure must be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation; and
(D) Objectives and timetables established for the next reporting period.
(ii)
Final project development report.
The final project development report must be submitted 90 days after project completion and include:
(A) A detailed project funding and expense summary; and
(B) A summary of the project's installation/construction process, including recommendations for development of similar projects by future Applicants to the program.
(3)
Project completion requirements.
Once the project has been constructed, the grantee must provide the Agency as applicable via form RD 4280-3D “Annual Outcome Project Performance Certification”, a certification that their system has for the past year performed at the steady operating level as described in the technical report of their application, and whether projected jobs created or saved have occurred, or certify that it has not performed as described. If it has not performed, a description of the circumstances which have occurred and affected system performance must be reported, along with the actual performance of the subject REAP project, and the actual number of jobs created or saved as a direct result of the REAP project.
(i)
RES.
Three total annual outcome project performance certifications or reports are required for RES projects. The first is due at the completion of the first full calendar year following the year in which the project was completed. The remaining are required for subsequent calendar years.
(ii)
EEI.
Two total annual outcome performance certifications or reports are required for EEI projects. The first is due at completion of the first full calendar year following the year in which the project was completed. The second is required for the subsequent calendar year.
(j)
Grant close-out.
Grant close-out must be performed in accordance with the requirements specified in 2 CFR part 200.
§ 4280.125
Construction planning and performing development.
(a)
General.
The following requirements are applicable to all procurement methods specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(1)
Maximum open and free competition.
All procurement transactions, regardless of procurement method and dollar value, must be conducted in a manner
that provides maximum open and free competition. Procurement procedures must not restrict or eliminate competition. Competitive restriction examples include, but are not limited to, the following: Placing unreasonable requirements on firms in order for them to qualify to do business; noncompetitive practices between firms; organizational conflicts of interest; and unnecessary experience or excessive bonding requirements. In specifying material(s), the grantee and its consultant will consider all materials normally suitable for the project commensurate with sound engineering practices and project requirements. The Agency will consider any recommendation made by the grantee's consultant concerning the technical design and choice of materials to be used for such a project. If the Agency determines that a design or material, other than those that were recommended, should be considered by including them in the procurement process as an acceptable design or material in the project, the Agency will provide such applicant or grantee with a comprehensive justification for such a determination. The justification will be documented in writing.
(2)
Equal employment opportunity.
For all construction contracts and grants in excess of $10,000, the contractor must comply with Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 11375 and Executive Order 13672, and as supplemented by applicable Department of Labor regulations (41 CFR part 60). The applicant, or the lender and borrower, as applicable, is responsible for ensuring that the contractor complies with these requirements.
(3)
Surety.
The Agency will require surety on any contract for procurement exceeding $100,000, except as provided for in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section. For contracts of lesser amounts, the grantee may require surety.
(i) Surety covering both performance and payment will be required. The United States, acting through the Agency, will be named as co-obligee on all surety unless prohibited by State or Tribal law. Surety may be provided as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) Surety in the amount of 100 percent of the contract cost may be provided using either:
(
1
) A bank letter of credit; or
(
2
) Performance bonds and payment bonds. Companies providing performance bonds and payment bonds must hold a certificate of authority as an acceptable surety on Federal bonds as listed in Treasury Circular 570 as amended and be legally doing business in the State where the project is located.
(B) Cash deposit in escrow of at least 50 percent of the contract amount. The cash deposit cannot be from funds awarded under this subpart.
(ii) The surety will normally be in the form of performance bonds and payment bonds; however, when other methods of surety are necessary, bid documents must contain provisions for such alternative types of surety. The use of surety other than performance bonds and payment bonds requires concurrence by the Agency after submission of a justification to the Agency together with the proposed form of escrow agreement or letter of credit.
(iii) When surety is not provided, contractors must furnish evidence of payment in full for all materials, labor, and any other items procured under the contract in an Agency-approved form.
(iv) The Agency may make exceptions to surety for any of the situations identified in paragraphs (a)(3)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) Small acquisition and construction procedures as specified in § 4280.119(c) and (d) or § 4280.120(c) and (d) as applicable are used.
(B) The proposed project is for equipment purchase and installation only and the contract costs for the equipment purchase and installation are $200,000 or less.
(C) The proposed project is for equipment purchase and installation only and the contract costs for the equipment purchase and installation are more than $200,000 and the following requirements can be met:
(
1
) The project involves two or fewer subcontractors; and
(
2
) The equipment manufacturer or provider must act as the general contractor.
(D) Other construction projects that have only one contractor performing work.
(E) The grantee agrees to request reimbursement of grant funds only after the contractors have furnished evidence of payment in full and evidence there are no outstanding liens regarding any materials, labor, and any other items procured under the contract, and the systems are deemed operational.
(4)
Grantees accomplishing work.
In some instances, grantees may wish to perform a part of the work themselves. Grantees may accomplish construction by using their own personnel and equipment, provided the grantees possess the necessary skills, abilities, and resources to perform the work and there is not a negative impact to their business operation. For a grantee to provide a portion of the work, with the remainder to be completed by a contractor:
(i) A clear understanding of the division of work must be established and delineated in the contract;
(ii) Grantees are not eligible for payment for their own work as it is not an eligible project cost;
(iii) Warranty requirements applicable to the technology must cover the grantee's work; and
(iv) Inspection and acceptance of the grantee's work must be completed by either:
(A) An inspector that will:
(
1
) Inspect, as applicable, and accept construction; and
(
2
) Furnish inspection reports; or
(B) A licensed engineer that will:
(
1
) Prepare design drawings and specifications;
(
2
) Inspect, as applicable, and accept construction; and
(
3
) Furnish inspection reports.
(b)
Forms used.
Technical service and procurement documents must be approved by the Agency and may be used only if they are customarily used in the area and protect the interest of the applicant and the Government with respect to compliance with items such as the drawings, specifications, payments for work, inspections, completion, nondiscrimination in construction work and acceptance of the work. The Agency will not become a party to a construction contract or incur any liability under it. No contract will become effective until concurred in writing by the Agency. Such concurrence statement must be attached to and made a part of the contract.
(c)
Technical services.
Unless the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section can be met, all RES and EEI projects with total project costs greater than $1,000,000 require:
(1) The design, installation monitoring, testing prior to commercial operation, and project completion certification be completed by a licensed professional engineer (PE) or team of licensed PEs. Licensed PEs may be “in-house” PEs or contracted PEs.
(2) Any contract for design services must be subject to Agency concurrence.
(3) Engineers must be licensed in the State where the project is to be constructed.
(4) The Agency may grant an exception to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section if the following requirements are met:
(i) State or Tribal law does not require the use of a licensed PE; and
(ii) The project is not complex, as determined by the Agency, and can be completed to meet the requirements of this program without the services of a licensed PE.
(d)
Design policies.
Unless the applicant plans to request a lump sum reimbursement of grant funds at the end of construction and 30 days of successful operation, regardless of total project costs, final plans and specifications must be reviewed by the Agency and approved prior to the start of construction. Facilities funded by the Agency must meet the following design requirements, as applicable:
(1)
Environmental requirements.
Actions taken under this subpart must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. Project planning and design must not only be responsive to the grantee's needs but must consider the environmental consequences of the proposed project. Project design must incorporate and integrate, where practicable, mitigation measures that
avoid or minimize adverse environmental impacts. Environmental reviews serve as a means of assessing environmental impacts of project proposals, rather than justifying decisions already made. Applicants may not take any action on a project proposal that will have an adverse environmental impact or limit the choice of reasonable project alternatives being reviewed prior to the completion of the Agency's environmental review. If such actions are taken, the Agency has the right to withdraw and discontinue processing the application.
(2)
Architectural barriers.
All facilities intended for or accessible to the public or in which physically handicapped persons may be employed must be developed in compliance with the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151
et seq.
) as implemented by 41 CFR 101-196, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 1474
et seq.
) as implemented by 7 CFR parts 15 and 15b, and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
).
(3)
Energy/environment.
Project design shall consider cost effective energy-efficient and environmentally-sound products and services.
(4)
Seismic safety.
All new structures, fully or partially enclosed, used or intended for sheltering persons or property will be designed with appropriate seismic safety provisions in compliance with the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701
et seq.
), and E.O. 12699, Seismic Safety of Federal and Federally Assisted or Regulated New Building Construction. Designs of components essential for system operation and substantial rehabilitation of structures that are used for sheltering persons or property shall incorporate seismic safety provisions to the extent practicable as specified in 7 CFR part 1792, subpart C.
(e)
Contract methods.
This paragraph identifies the three types of contract methods that can be used for projects funded under this subpart. The procurement methods, which are applicable to each of these contract methods, are specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(1)
Traditional method or design-bid-build.
The services of the consulting engineer or architect and the general construction contractor must be procured in accordance with the following paragraphs.
(i)
Solicitation of offers.
Solicitation of offers must:
(A) Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured. The description must not, in competitive procurements, contain features that unduly restrict competition. The description may include a statement of the qualitative nature of the material, product or service to be procured, and when necessary will set forth those minimum essential characteristics and standards to which it must conform if it is to satisfy its intended use. When it is impractical or uneconomical to make a clear and accurate description of the technical requirements, a “brand name or equal” description may be used to define the performance or other salient requirements of a procurement. The specific features of the named brands which must be met by offerors must be clearly stated.
(B) Clearly specify all requirements which offerors must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
(ii)
Contract pricing.
Cost plus a percentage of cost method of contracting must not be used.
(iii)
Unacceptable bidders.
The following will not be allowed to bid on, or negotiate for, a contract or subcontract related to the construction of the project:
(A) An engineer or architect as a person who has prepared plans and specifications or who will be responsible for monitoring the construction;
(B) Any entity in which the grantee's architect or engineer is an officer, employee, or holds or controls a substantial interest in the grantee;
(C) The grantee's governing body officers, employees, or agents;
(D) Any member of the grantee's immediate family or partners in paragraphs (e)(1)(iii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section; or
(E) An entity which employs, or is about to employ, any person in paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section.
(iv)
Contract award.
Contracts must be made only with responsible parties possessing the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed procurement. Consideration must include, but not be limited to, matters such as integrity, record of past performance, financial and technical resources, and accessibility to other necessary resources. Contracts must not be made with parties who are suspended or debarred.
(2)
Design/build method.
The design/build method, where the same person or entity provides design and engineering work, as well as construction or installation, may be used with Agency written approval.
(i)
Concurrence information.
The applicant will request Agency concurrence by providing the Agency at least the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) through (H) of this section.
(A) The grantee's written request to use the design/build method with a description of the proposed method.
(B) A proposed scope of work describing in clear, concise terms the technical requirements for the contract. It shall include a nontechnical statement summarizing the work to be performed by the contractor, the results expected, and a proposed construction schedule showing the sequence in which the work is to be performed.
(C) A proposed firm-fixed-price contract for the entire project which provides that the contractor will be responsible for any extra cost which result from errors or omissions in the services provided under the contract, as well as compliance with all Federal, State, local, and Tribal requirements effective on the contract execution date.
(D) Where noncompetitive negotiation is proposed and found, by the Agency, to be an acceptable procurement method, then the Agency will evaluate documents indicating the contractor's performance on previous similar projects in which the contractor acted in a similar capacity.
(E) A detailed listing and cost estimate of equipment and supplies not included in the construction contract but which are necessary to properly operate the project.
(F) Evidence that a qualified construction inspector who is independent of the contractor has or will be hired.
(G) Preliminary plans and outline specifications. However, final plans and specifications must be completed and reviewed by the Agency prior to the start of construction.
(H) The grantee's attorney's opinion and comments regarding the legal adequacy of the proposed contract documents and evidence that the grantee has the legal authority to enter into and fulfill the contract.
(ii)
Agency concurrence of design/build method.
The Agency will review the material submitted by the applicant. When all items are acceptable, the Agency approval official will concur in the use of the design/build method for the proposal.
(iii)
Forms used.
Agency approved contract documents must be used provided they are customarily used in the area and protect the interest of the applicant and the Agency with respect to compliance with items such as the drawings, specifications, payments for work, inspections, completion, nondiscrimination in construction work, and acceptance of the work. The Agency will not become a party to a construction contract or incur any liability under it. No contract shall become effective until concurred, in writing, by the Agency. Such concurrence statement must be attached to and made a part of the contract.
(iv)
Contract provisions.
Contracts will have a listing of attachments and must contain the following:
(A) The contract sum;
(B) The dates for starting and completing the work;
(C) The amount of liquidated damages, if any, to be charged;
(D) The amount, method, and frequency of payment;
(E) Surety provisions that meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section;
(F) The requirement that changes or additions must have prior written approval of the Agency as identified in the letter of conditions;
(G) Contract review and concurrence. The grantee's attorney will review the executed contract documents, including performance and payment bonds,
and will certify that they are in compliance with Federal, State, or Tribal law, and that the persons executing these documents have been properly authorized to do so. The contract documents, engineer's recommendation for award, and bid tabulation sheets will be forwarded to the Agency for concurrence prior to awarding the contract. All contracts will contain a provision that they are not effective until they have been concurred, in writing, by the Agency;
(H) This part does not relieve the grantee of any responsibilities under its contract. The grantee is responsible for the settlement of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurement entered into in support of Agency funding. These include, but are not limited to, source evaluation, protests, disputes, and claims. Matters concerning violation of laws are to be referred to the applicable local, State, Tribal, or Federal authority; and
(3)
Construction management.
Construction managers as a constructor (CMc) acts in the capacity of a general contractor and is financially and professionally responsible for the construction. This type of construction management is also referred to as construction manager “At Risk.” The construction contract is between the grantee and the CMc. The CMc in turn subcontracts for some or all of the work. The CMc will need to carry the Agency required 100 percent surety and insurance, as required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Projects using construction management must follow the requirements of (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(f)
Procurement methods.
Procurement must be made by one of the following methods: Competitive sealed bids (formal advertising); competitive negotiation; or noncompetitive negotiation. Competitive sealed bids (formal advertising) are the preferred procurement method for construction contracts.
(1)
Competitive sealed bids.
In competitive sealed bids (formal advertising), sealed bids are publicly solicited and a firm-fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and conditions of the invitation for bids, is lowest, price and other factors considered. When using this method, the following will apply:
(i) At a sufficient time prior to the date set for opening of bids, bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified sources. In addition, the invitation must be publicly advertised.
(ii) The invitation for bids, including specifications and pertinent attachments, must clearly define the items or services needed in order for the bidders to properly respond to the invitation under paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(iii) All bids must be opened publicly at the time and place stated in the invitation for bids.
(iv) A firm-fixed-price contract award must be made by written notice to that responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the invitation for bids, is lowest. When specified in the bidding documents, factors such as discounts and transportation costs will be considered in determining which bid is lowest.
(v) The applicant, with the concurrence of the Agency, will consider the amount of the bids or proposals, and all conditions listed in the invitation. On the basis of these considerations, the applicant will select and notify the lowest responsible bidder. The contract will be awarded using an Agency-approved form.
(vi) Any or all bids may be rejected by the grantee when it is in their best interest.
(2)
Competitive negotiation.
In competitive negotiations, proposals are requested from a number of sources. Negotiations are normally conducted with more than one of the sources submitting offers (offerors). Competitive negotiation may be used if conditions are not appropriate for the use of formal advertising and where discussions and bargaining with a view to reaching agreement on the technical quality, price, other terms of the proposed contract and specifications are necessary. If competitive negotiation is used for procurement, the following requirements will apply:
(i) Proposals must be solicited from two qualified sources, unless otherwise approved by the Agency, to permit reasonable competition consistent with
the nature and requirements of the procurement.
(ii) The request for proposal must identify all significant evaluation factors, including price or cost where required, and their relative importance.
(iii) The grantee must provide mechanisms for technical evaluation of the proposals received, determination of responsible offerors for the purpose of written or oral discussions, and selection for contract award.
(iv) Award may be made to the responsible offeror whose proposal will be most advantageous to the grantee, price and other factors considered. Unsuccessful offerors must be promptly notified.
(v) Owners may utilize competitive negotiation procedures for procurement of architectural/engineering and other professional services, whereby the offerors' qualifications are evaluated, and the most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiations of fair and reasonable compensation.
(3)
Noncompetitive negotiation.
Noncompetitive negotiation is procurement through solicitation of a proposal from only one source. Noncompetitive negotiation may be used when the award of a contract is not feasible under small acquisition and construction procedures, competitive sealed bids (formal advertising) or competitive negotiation procedures. Circumstances under which a contract may be awarded by noncompetitive negotiations are limited to the following:
(i) After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate; or
(ii) No acceptable bids have been received after formal advertising.
(4)
Additional procurement methods.
The grantee may use additional innovative procurement methods provided the grantee receives prior written approval from the Agency. Contracts will have a listing of attachments and the minimum provisions of the contract will include:
(i) The contract sum;
(ii) The dates for starting and completing the work;
(iii) The amount of liquidated damages to be charged;
(iv) The amount, method, and frequency of payment;
(v) Whether or not surety bonds will be provided; and
(vi) The requirement that changes or additions must have prior written approval of the Agency.
(g)
Contracts awarded prior to applications.
Owners awarding construction or other procurement contracts prior to filing an application, must provide evidence that is satisfactory to the Agency that the contract was entered into without intent to circumvent the requirements of Agency regulations.
(1)
Modifications.
The contract shall be modified to conform to the provisions of this subpart. Where this is not possible, modifications will be made to the extent practicable and, as a minimum, the contract must comply with all State and local laws and regulations as well as statutory requirements and executive orders related to the Agency financing.
(2)
Consultant's certification.
Provide a certification by an engineer, licensed in the State where the facility is constructed, that any construction performed complies fully with the plans and specifications.
(3)
Owner's certification.
Provide a certification by the owner that the contractor has complied with applicable statutory and executive requirements related to Agency financing.
(h)
Contract administration.
Contract administration must comply with 7 CFR 1780.76. If another authority, such as a Federal, State, or Tribal agency, is providing funding and requires oversight of inspections, change orders, and pay requests, the Agency will accept copies of their reports or forms as meeting oversight requirements of the Agency.
§§ 4280.126-4280.136
[Reserved]

# Combined Funding for Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements
§ 4280.137
Combined grant and guaranteed loan funding requirements.
The requirements for a RES or EEI project for which an applicant is seeking a combined grant and guaranteed loan are specified in this section.
(a)
Eligibility.
All applicants must be eligible under the requirements specified in § 4280.112. If the applicant is
seeking a loan, the applicant must also meet the borrower eligibility requirements specified in 7 CFR 5001.126. Lenders must meet eligibility requirements specified in 7 CFR 5001.130-132. Projects must meet the project eligibility requirements specified in §§ 4280.113, 7 CFR parts 5001.102 (b) and (c) and 5001.106-107, as applicable. For projects that include New Markets Tax Credits, the guaranteed loan portion of the combined funding request must meet provisions found in 5001.141.
(b)
Funding.
Funding provided under this section is subject to the limits described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (2) of this section.
(1) The amount of any combined grant and guaranteed loan shall not exceed 75 percent of eligible project costs and the grant portion shall not exceed 25 percent of eligible project costs. Loan amount provisions of 7 CFR part 5001.406(d) apply, except for (d)(2). For purposes of combined funding requests, eligible project costs are based on the total costs associated with those items specified in § 4280.115(c) and 7 CFR part 5001.121(d), except for (d)(2). The applicant must provide the remaining total funds needed to complete the project.
(2) The minimum guaranteed loan request allowed is $5,000, with the grant portion of the funding request being at least $1,500 for EEI projects and at least $2,500 for RES projects.
(c)
Loan origination provisions.
Provisions found in 7 CFR parts 5001.201 through 5001.208 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of a combined grant and guaranteed loan funding request.
(d)
Application provisions and documentation.
When applying for combined funding, the applicant/borrower must provide all documentation outlined in this section and the lender must submit grant and guaranteed loan application information simultaneously.
(1) Applications must include the following documentation, including the requisite forms and certifications, specified in §§ 4280.118, 4280.119, or 4280.120 as applicable, for the grant request, except that applicants submitting a properly completed 5001-1 form only need to submit the applicable RD 4280-3 form containing the applicant's CAGE code and properly signed certifications. The guaranteed loan applications are filed in accordance with 7 CFR part 5001.301 where they will be processed in accordance with 7 CFR parts 5001.303 and 5001.307, and as follows:
(2) Where both the grant application and the guaranteed loan application provisions request the same documentation, form, or certification, such documentation, form, or certification may be submitted once; the combined application does not need to contain duplicate documentation, forms, and certifications.
(e)
Loan provisions.
Provisions found in 7 CFR parts 5001.401 through 5001.408 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of a combined funding request.
(f)
Guarantee provisions.
Provisions found in 7 CFR parts 5001.450 through 5001.459 apply to the guarantee on the guaranteed loan portion of a combined funding request.
(g)
Servicing provisions.
Provisions found in 7 CFR parts 5001.501 through 5001.524 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of a combined funding request.
(h)
Evaluation, scoring, and award.
The Agency will evaluate each combined application according to § 4280.116(c) and 7 CFR part 5001.315 (a) and (b). The Agency will select applications according to applicable procedures specified in § 4280.122(a) and (b) unless modified by this section. A combination loan and grant request will be selected based upon the grant score of the project. The Agency will score combined funding applications based upon the grant score as noted in § 4280.121. Projects will be ranked and selected for award according to applicable competition procedures specified in § 4280.122 (c), unless modified by this section or via a
Federal Register
notification.
(i)
Interest rate and terms of loan.
The interest rate and terms of the guaranteed loan for the loan portion of the combined funding request will be determined based on the procedures specified in 7 CFR parts 5001.401 and 5001.402.
(j)
Other provisions.
In addition to the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section, the combined funding request is subject to the other requirements specified in this subpart, including, but not limited to, processing and servicing requirements,
as applicable, as described in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) All other provisions of §§ 4280.101 through 4280.111 apply to the grant portion of the combined funding request and all other provisions as applicable of 7 CFR parts 5001.1 through 5001.10 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of the combined funding request.
(2) All other provisions of §§ 4280.112 through 4280.124 apply to the grant portion of the combined funding request and § 4280.125 applies if the project for which the grant is sought has a total project cost of $200,000 and greater.
(3) All guarantee loan and grant combination applications that are ranked, but not funded, will be processed in accordance with provisions found in § 4280.122(d), (e), and (f).
(4) Applicants whose combination applications are approved for funding must utilize both the loan and the grant. The guaranteed loan will be closed prior to grant funds being disbursed. The Agency reserves the right to reduce the total loan guarantee and grant award, as appropriate, if construction costs are less than projected or if funding sources differ from those provided in the application.
(5) Ineligible project provisions of §§ 5001.115 and 5001.119, and ineligible use of funds provision of § 5001.122 apply to the guaranteed loan portion of the combined funding request. Borrower ineligibility provisions of § 5001.127 are also applicable.
§§ 4280.138-4280.148
[Reserved]

# Energy Audit and Renewable Energy Development Assistance Grants
§ 4280.149
Applicant eligibility.
To be eligible for an EA grant or a REDA grant under this subpart, the applicant must meet each of the criteria, as applicable, specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. The Agency will determine an applicant's eligibility.
(a) The applicant must be one of the following:
(1) A unit of State, Tribal, or local government;
(2) A land-grant college or university, or other institution of higher education;
(3) A rural electric cooperative;
(4) A public power entity;
(5) An instrumentality of a State, Tribal, or local government; or
(6) A council, as defined under the Resource Conservation and Development Program, at 16 U.S. C. 3451.
(b) The applicant must have sufficient capacity to perform the EA or REDA activities proposed in the application to ensure success. The Agency will make this assessment based on the information provided in the application.
(c) The applicant must have the legal authority necessary to apply for and carry out the purpose of the grant.
(d) The applicant must:
(1) Be registered in the SAM prior to submitting an application;
(2) Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times until final fund disbursement has been made.
(3) Provide its UEI number in each application it submits to the Agency. Generally, the UEI number is included on SF-424.
§ 4280.150
Project eligibility.
To be eligible for an EA or a REDA grant, the grant funds for a project must be used by the grantee to assist agricultural producers or rural small businesses in one of the purposes specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and must also comply with paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.
(a) Conducting and promoting energy audits as defined in 4280.103.
(b) Conducting and promoting REDA by providing to agricultural producers and rural small businesses recommendations and information on how to improve the energy efficiency of the operations and to use renewable energy technologies and resources in their operations.
(c) EA and REDA can be provided only to a project located in a rural area unless the grantee of such project is an agricultural producer. If the project is owned by an agricultural producer, the project for which such services are being provided may be located in either a rural or non-rural area and the EA or REDA can only be for an EEI or RES
