means an entity described in sec. 121(b)(1) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act,
i.e.,
required partners, or an entity described in sec. 121(b)(2) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act,
i.e.,
additional partners.
Other participant (enrollee) costs
means the costs of participant training, including the payment of reasonable costs to instructors, classroom rental, training supplies, materials, equipment, and tuition, and which may be provided before or during a community service assignment, in a classroom setting, or under other appropriate arrangements; job placement assistance, including job development and job search assistance; participant supportive services to enable a participant to successfully participate in a project, including the payment of reasonable costs of transportation, health care and medical services, special job-related or personal counseling, incidentals (such as work shoes, badges, uniforms, eyeglasses, and tools), child and adult care, temporary shelter, and follow-up services; and outreach, recruitment and selection, intake orientation, and assessments. (OAA § 502(c)(6)(A)(ii)-(v)).
Pacific Island and Asian Americans
means Americans having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the Indian Subcontinent, or the Pacific Islands. (OAA sec. 518(a)(6).)
Participant
means an individual who is determined to be eligible for the SCSEP, is given a community service assignment, and is receiving any service funded by the program as described in subpart E.
Persistent unemployment
means that the annual average unemployment rate for a county or city is more than 20 percent higher than the national average for two out of the last three years.
Poor employment prospects
means the significant likelihood that an individual will not obtain employment without the assistance of the SCSEP or another workforce development program. Persons with poor employment prospects have a significant barrier to employment; significant barriers to employment include but are not limited to: lacking a substantial employment history, basic skills, and/or English-language proficiency; lacking
a high school diploma or the equivalent; having a disability; being homeless; or residing in socially and economically isolated rural or urban areas where employment opportunities are limited.
Program operator
means a grantee or sub-recipient that receives SCSEP funds from a SCSEP grantee or a higher-tier SCSEP sub-recipient and performs the following activities for all its participants: Eligibility determination, participant assessment, and development of and placement into community service assignments.
Program Year
means the one-year period beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30.
Project
means an undertaking by a grantee or sub-recipient in accordance with a grant or contract agreement that provides service to communities and training and employment opportunities to eligible individuals.
Recipient
means grantee. As used here, “recipient” includes “recipient” as defined in 29 CFR 95.2(gg) and “grantee” as defined in 29 CFR 97.3.
Residence
means an individual's declared dwelling place or address as demonstrated by appropriate documentation.
Rural
means an area not designated as a metropolitan statistical area by the Census Bureau; segments within metropolitan counties identified by codes 4 through 10 in the Rural Urban Commuting Area (RUCA) system; and RUCA codes 2 and 3 for census tracts that are larger than 400 square miles and have population density of less than 30 people per square mile.
SCSEP
means the Senior Community Service Employment Program authorized under title V of the OAA.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Service area
means the geographic area served by a local SCSEP project in accordance with a grant agreement.
Severe disability
means a severe, chronic disability attributable to mental or physical impairment, or a combination of mental and physical impairments, that—
(1) Is likely to continue indefinitely; and
(2) Results in substantial functional limitation in 3 or more of the following areas of major life activity:
(i) Self-care;
(ii) Receptive and expressive language;
(iii) Learning;
(iv) Mobility;
(v) Self-direction;
(vi) Capacity for independent living;
(vii) Economic self-sufficiency. (42 U.S.C. 3002(48)).
Severely limited employment prospects
means the substantial likelihood that an individual will not obtain employment without the assistance of the SCSEP or another workforce development program. Persons with severely limited employment prospects have more than one significant barrier to employment; significant barriers to employment may include but are not limited to: Lacking a substantial employment history, basic skills, and/or English-language proficiency; lacking a high school diploma or the equivalent; having a disability; being homeless; or residing in socially and economically isolated rural or urban areas where employment opportunities are limited.
State Board
means a State Workforce Development Board established under WIOA sec. 101.
State grantee
means the entity designated by the Governor, or the highest government official, to enter into a grant with the Department to administer a State or Territory SCSEP project under the OAA. Except as applied to funding distributions under § 506 of the OAA, this definition applies to the 50 States, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia and the following Territories: Guam, American Samoa, U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
State Plan
means a plan that the Governor, or the highest government official, of a State must submit to the Secretary that outlines a four-year strategy, and describes the planning and implementation process, for the statewide provision of community service employment and other authorized activities for eligible individuals under SCSEP. (
See
§ 641.300).
Sub-recipient
means the legal entity to which a sub-award of financial assistance is made by the grantee (or by a higher-tier sub-recipient), and that is accountable to the grantee for the use of the funds provided. As used here, “sub-recipient” includes “sub-grantee” as defined in 29 CFR 97.3 and “sub-recipient” as defined in 29 CFR 95.2(kk).
Supportive services
means services, such as transportation, health and medical services, special job-related or personal counseling, incidentals (such as work shoes, badges, uniforms, eye-glasses, and tools), child and adult care, housing, including temporary shelter, follow-up services, and needs-related payments, which are necessary to enable an individual to participate in activities authorized under the SCSEP. (OAA secs. 502(c)(6)(A)(iv) and 518(a)(8).)
Title V of the OAA
means 42 U.S.C. 3056
et seq.,
as amended.
Training services
means those services authorized by WIOA sec. 134(c)(3).
Tribal organization
means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe, or any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body. (42 U.S.C. 3002(54)).
Unemployed
means an individual who is without a job and who wants and is available for work, including an individual who may have occasional employment that does not result in a constant source of income. (OAA sec. 518(a)(9).)
Veteran
means an individual who is a “covered person” for purposes of the Jobs for Veterans Act, 38 U.S.C. 4215(a)(1).
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA)
means the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, Public Law 113-128 (July 22, 2014), as amended.
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) regulations
means the regulations in parts 675 through 688 of this chapter, the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations in parts 651 through 654 and part 658 of this chapter, and the regulations implementing WIOA sec. 188 in 29 CFR part 38.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4661, Jan. 31, 2012; 82 FR 56880, Dec. 1, 2017; 87 FR 8189, Feb. 14, 2022]

# Subpart B—Coordination With the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act

# Source:
82 FR 56881, Dec. 1, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 641.200
What is the relationship between the SCSEP and the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
The SCSEP is a required partner under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. As such, it is a part of the One-Stop delivery system. When acting in their capacity as WIOA partners, SCSEP grantees and sub-recipients are required to follow all applicable rules under WIOA and its regulations.
See
WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(v) and 20 CFR 678.400 through 678.440.
§ 641.210
What services, in addition to the applicable career services, must SCSEP grantees and sub-recipients provide through the One-Stop delivery system?
In addition to providing career services, as defined at 20 CFR 678.430, SCSEP grantees and sub-recipients must make arrangements through the One-Stop delivery system to provide eligible and ineligible individuals with referrals to WIOA career and training services and access to other activities and programs carried out by other One-Stop partners.
§ 641.220
Does title I of WIOA require the SCSEP to use OAA funds for individuals who are not eligible for SCSEP services or for services that are not authorized under the OAA?
No, SCSEP requirements continue to apply. OAA title V resources may not be used to serve individuals who are not SCSEP-eligible. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act creates a seamless service delivery system for individuals seeking workforce development services by linking the One-Stop partners in the One-Stop delivery system. Although the overall effect is to provide universal access to career services, SCSEP resources may only be used to provide services that are authorized and provided under the SCSEP to eligible individuals. Note, however, that one allowable SCSEP cost is a SCSEP project's proportionate share of
One-Stop costs.
See
§ 641.850(d). Title V funds can be used to pay wages to SCSEP participants receiving career and training services under title I of WIOA provided that the SCSEP participants have each received a community service assignment. All other individuals who are in need of the services provided under the SCSEP, but who do not meet the eligibility criteria to enroll in the SCSEP, should be referred to or enrolled in WIOA or other appropriate partner programs. WIOA sec. 121(b)(1). These arrangements should be negotiated in the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), which is an agreement developed and executed between the Local Workforce Development Board, with the agreement of the chief local elected official, and the One-Stop partners relating to the operation of the One-Stop delivery system in the local area. The MOU is further described in the WIOA regulations at 20 CFR 678.500 through 678.510.
§ 641.230
Must the individual assessment conducted by the SCSEP grantee or sub-recipient and the assessment performed by the One-Stop delivery system be accepted for use by either entity to determine the individual's need for services in the SCSEP and adult programs under title I, subtitle B of WIOA?
Yes, sec. 502(b)(3) of the OAA provides that an assessment or IEP completed by the SCSEP satisfies any condition for an assessment, service strategy, or IEP completed at the One-Stop and vice-versa. (OAA sec. 502(b)(3).) These reciprocal arrangements and the contents of the SCSEP IEP and WIOA IEP should be negotiated in the MOU.
§ 641.240
Are SCSEP participants eligible for career and training services under title I of WIOA?
(a) Although SCSEP participants are not automatically eligible for career and training services under title I of WIOA, local boards may deem SCSEP participants, either individually or as a group, as satisfying the requirements for receiving adult career and training services under title I of WIOA.
(b) SCSEP participants who have been assessed and for whom an IEP has been developed have received a career service under 20 CFR 680.220(a) of the WIOA regulations. In order to enhance skill development related to the IEP, it may be necessary to provide training beyond the community service assignment to enable participants to meet their unsubsidized employment objectives. The SCSEP grantee or sub-recipient, the host agency, the WIOA program, or another One-Stop partner may provide training as appropriate and as negotiated in the MOU. (See § 641.540 for a further discussion of training for SCSEP participants.)

# Subpart C—The State Plan
§ 641.300
What is the State Plan?
The State Plan is a plan, submitted by the Governor, or the highest government official, in each State, as an independent document or as part of the WIOA Combined State Plan, that outlines a 4-year strategy for the statewide provision of community service employment and other authorized activities for eligible individuals under the SCSEP as described in § 641.302. The State Plan also describes the planning and implementation process for SCSEP services in the State, taking into account the relative distribution of eligible individuals and employment opportunities within the State. The State Plan is intended to foster coordination among the various SCSEP grantees and sub-recipients operating within the State and to facilitate the efforts of stakeholders, including State and local boards under WIOA, to work collaboratively through a participatory process to accomplish the SCSEP's goals. (OAA sec. 503(a)(1).) The State Plan provisions are listed in § 641.325.
[82 FR 56882, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.302
What is a four-year strategy?
The State Plan must outline a four-year strategy for the statewide provision of community service employment and other authorized activities for eligible individuals under the SCSEP program. (OAA § 503(a)(1)). The four-year strategy must specifically address the following:
(a) The State's long-term strategy for achieving an equitable distribution
of SCSEP positions within the State that:
(1) Moves positions from over-served to underserved locations within the State, under § 641.365;
(2) Equitably serves rural and urban areas; and
(3) Serves individuals afforded priority for service, pursuant to § 641.520;
(b) The State's long-term strategy for avoiding disruptions to the program when new Census or other reliable data become available, or when there is over-enrollment for any other reason;
(c) The State's long-term strategy for serving minority older individuals under SCSEP;
(d) Long-term projections for job growth in industries and occupations in the State that may provide employment opportunities for older workers, and how those relate to the types of unsubsidized jobs for which SCSEP participants will be trained, and the types of skill training to be provided;
(e) The State's long-term strategy for engaging employers to develop and promote opportunities for the placement of SCSEP participants in unsubsidized employment;
(f) The State's strategy for continuous improvement in the level of performance for entry into unsubsidized employment;
(g) Planned actions to coordinate activities of SCSEP grantees with the activities being carried out in the State under title I of WIOA, including plans for using the WIOA One-Stop delivery system and its partners to serve individuals aged 55 and older;
(h) Planned actions to coordinate activities of SCSEP grantees with the activities being carried out in the State under other titles of the OAA;
(i) Planned actions to coordinate the SCSEP with other public and private entities and programs that provide services to older Americans, such as community and faith-based organizations, transportation programs, and programs for those with special needs or disabilities;
(j) Planned actions to coordinate the SCSEP with other labor market and job training initiatives; and
(k) The State's long-term strategy to improve SCSEP services, including planned longer-term changes to the design of the program within the State, and planned changes in the use of SCSEP grantees and program operators to better achieve the goals of the program; this may include recommendations to the Department, as appropriate.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56882, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.305
Who is responsible for developing and submitting the State Plan?
The Governor, or the highest governmental official, of each State is responsible for developing and submitting the State Plan to the Department.
§ 641.310
May the Governor, or the highest government official, delegate responsibility for developing and submitting the State Plan?
(a) Yes, the Governor, or the highest governmental official of each State, may delegate responsibility for developing and submitting the State Plan, provided that any such delegation is consistent with State law and regulations.
(b) To delegate responsibility, the Governor, or the highest government official, must submit to the Department a signed statement indicating the individual and/or organization that will be submitting the State Plan on his or her behalf.
§ 641.315
Who participates in developing the State Plan?
(a) In developing the State Plan the Governor, or the highest government official, must seek the advice and recommendations of representatives from:
(1) The State and area agencies on aging;
(2) State and local boards under WIOA;
(3) Public and private nonprofit agencies and organizations providing employment services, including each grantee operating a SCSEP project within the State, except as provided in § 641.320(b);
(4) Social service organizations providing services to older individuals;
(5) Grantees under title III of the OAA;
(6) Affected communities;
(7) Unemployed older individuals;
(8) Community-based organizations serving older individuals;
(9) Business organizations; and
(10) Labor organizations.
(b) The Governor, or the highest government official, may also obtain the advice and recommendations of other interested organizations and individuals, including SCSEP program participants, in developing the State Plan. (OAA § 503(a)(2)).
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56882, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.320
Must all national grantees operating within a State participate in the State planning process?
(a) The eligibility provision at OAA § 514(c)(6) requires national grantees to coordinate activities with other organizations at the State and local levels. Therefore, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any national grantee that does not participate in the State planning process may be deemed ineligible to receive SCSEP funds in the following Program Year.
(b) National grantees serving older American Indians, or Pacific Island and Asian Americans, with funds reserved under OAA sec. 506(a)(3), are exempted from the requirement to participate in the State planning processes under sec. 503(a)(9) of the OAA. Although these national grantees may choose not to participate in the State planning process, the Department encourages their participation. Only those grantees using reserved funds are exempt; if a grantee is awarded one grant with reserved funds and another grant with non-reserved funds, the grantee is required under paragraph (a) of this section to participate in the State planning process for purposes of the non-reserved funds grant.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56882, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.325
What information must be provided in the State Plan?
The Department issues instructions detailing the information that must be provided in the State Plan. At a minimum, the State Plan must include the State's four-year strategy, as described in § 641.302, and information on the following:
(a) The ratio of eligible individuals in each service area to the total eligible population in the State;
(b) The relative distribution of:
(1) Eligible individuals residing in urban and rural areas within the State;
(2) Eligible individuals who have the greatest economic need;
(3) Eligible individuals who are minorities;
(4) Eligible individuals who are limited English proficient;
(5) Eligible individuals who have the greatest social need; and
(6) Eligible individuals who are formerly incarcerated individuals as defined in § 641.140;
(c) The current and projected employment opportunities in the State (such as by providing information available under sec. 15 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49l-2) by occupation), and the types of skills possessed by eligible individuals;
(d) The localities and populations for which projects of the type authorized by OAA title V are most needed;
(e) Actions taken and/or planned to coordinate activities of SCSEP grantees in the State with activities carried out in the State under title I of WIOA;
(f) A description of the process used to obtain advice and recommendations on the State Plan from representatives of organizations and individuals listed in § 641.315, and advice and recommendations on steps to coordinate SCSEP services with activities funded under title I of WIOA from representatives of organizations listed in § 641.335;
(g) A description of the State's procedures and time line for ensuring an open and inclusive planning process that provides meaningful opportunity for public comment as required by § 641.350;
(h) Public comments received, and a summary of the comments;
(i) A description of the steps taken to avoid disruptions to the greatest extent possible as provided in § 641.365; and
(j) Such other information as the Department may require in the State Plan instructions. (OAA § 503(a)).
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56882, Dec. 1, 2017; 87 FR 8189, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 641.330
How should the State Plan reflect community service needs?
The Governor, or the highest government official, must ensure that the State Plan identifies the types of community services that are needed and the places where these services are most needed. The State Plan should specifically identify the needs and locations of those individuals most in need of community services and the groups working to meet their needs. (OAA § 503(a)(4)(E)).
§ 641.335
How should the Governor, or the highest government official, address the coordination of SCSEP services with activities funded under title I of WIOA?
The Governor, or the highest government official, must seek the advice and recommendations from representatives of the State and local area agencies on aging in the State and the State and local boards established under title I of WIOA. (OAA sec. 503(a)(2).) The State Plan must describe the steps that are being taken to coordinate SCSEP activities within the State with activities being carried out under title I of WIOA. (OAA sec. 503(a)(4)(F).) The State Plan must describe the steps being taken to ensure that the SCSEP is an active partner in each One-Stop delivery system and the steps that will be taken to encourage and improve coordination with the One-Stop delivery system.
[82 FR 56882, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.340
How often must the Governor, or the highest government official, update the State Plan?
(a) Under instructions issued by the Department, the Governor, or the highest government official, must review the State Plan and submit an update to the State Plan to the Secretary for consideration and approval not less often than every two years. OAA § 503(a)(1). States are encouraged to review their State Plan more frequently than every two years, however, and make modifications as circumstances warrant, under § 641.345.
(b) Before development of the update to the State Plan, the Governor, or the highest government official, must seek the advice and recommendations of the individuals and organizations identified in § 641.315 about what, if any, changes are needed, and must publish the State Plan, showing the changes, for public comment. OAA § section 503(a)(2), 503(a)(3).
§ 641.345
What are the requirements for modifying the State Plan?
(a) Modifications may be submitted anytime circumstances warrant.
(b) Modifications to the State Plan are required when:
(1) There are changes in Federal or State law or policy that substantially change the assumptions upon which the State Plan is based;
(2) There are significant changes in the State's vision, four-year strategy, policies, performance indicators, or organizational responsibilities; or
(3) There is a change in a grantee or grantees.
(c) Modifications to the State Plan are subject to the same public comment requirements that apply to the development of the State Plan under § 641.350.
(d) States are not required to seek the advice and recommendations of the individuals and organizations identified in § 641.315 when modifying the State Plan, except that States must seek the advice and recommendations of any national grantees operating in the State. While not required, states are strongly encouraged to seek the advice and recommendation of the relevant entities listed in § 641.315 when or if modifying the State Plan becomes necessary.
(e) The Department will issue additional instructions for the procedures that must be followed when requesting modifications to the State Plan.
§ 641.350
How should public comments be solicited and collected?
The Governor, or the highest government official, should follow established State procedures to solicit and collect public comments. The State Plan must include a description of the State's procedures and schedule for ensuring an open and inclusive planning process that provides meaningful opportunity for public comment.
§ 641.355
Who may comment on the State Plan?
Any individual or organization may comment on the Plan.
§ 641.360
How does the State Plan relate to the equitable distribution report?
The two documents address some of the same areas, but are prepared at different points in time. The equitable distribution report is prepared by State grantees at the beginning of each fiscal year and provides a “snapshot” of the actual distribution of all of the authorized positions within the State, grantee-by-grantee, and the optimum number of participant positions in each designated area based on the latest available Census or other reliable data. The State Plan is prepared by the Governor, or the highest government official, and covers many areas in addition to equitable distribution, as discussed in § 641.325, and sets forth a proposed plan for distribution of authorized positions in the State. Any distribution or redistribution of positions made as a result of a State Plan proposal will be reflected in the next equitable distribution report, which then forms the basis for the proposed distribution in the next State Plan update. This process is iterative in that it moves the authorized positions from overserved areas to underserved areas over a period of time.
§ 641.365
How must the equitable distribution provisions be reconciled with the provision that disruptions to current participants should be avoided?
(a) Governors, or highest government officials, must describe in the State Plan the steps that are being taken to comply with the statutory requirement to avoid disruptions in the provision of services for participants. (OAA sec. 503(a)(7).)
(b) When there is new Census or other reliable data indicating that there has been a shift in the location of the eligible population or when there is over-enrollment for any other reason, the Department recommends a gradual shift in positions as they become vacant to areas where there has been an increase in the eligible population.
(c) The Department does not define disruptions to mean that participants are entitled to remain in a subsidized community service assignment indefinitely. As discussed in § 641.570, there is a time limit on SCSEP participation, thus permitting positions to be transferred over time.
(d) Grantees and sub-recipients must not transfer positions from one geographic area to another without first notifying the State agency responsible for preparing the State Plan and equitable distribution report.
(e) Grantees must submit, in writing, any proposed changes in distribution that occur after submission of the equitable distribution report to the Department for approval.
(f) All grantees are required to coordinate any proposed changes in position distribution with the other grantees in the State, including the State project director, before submitting the proposed changes to the Department for approval. The request for the Department's approval must include the comments of the State project director, which the Department will consider in making its decision.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56882, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.370
May a State incorporate its 4-year plan for SCSEP into a Combined State Plan under WIOA?
Yes. A State may include its 4-year plan for SCSEP in its WIOA Combined State Plan according to the requirements in 20 CFR 676.140 through 676.145. For a State that obtains approval of that Combined State Plan under 20 CFR 676.143, the requirements of sec. 103 of WIOA and 20 CFR part 676 will apply in lieu of sec. 503(a) of the OAA and this subpart, and any reference in this part to a “State Plan” will be considered to be a reference to that Combined State Plan.
[82 FR 56883, Dec. 1, 2017]

# Subpart D—Grant Application and Responsibility Review Requirements for State and National SCSEP Grants
§ 641.400
What entities are eligible to apply to the Department for funds to administer SCSEP projects?
(a)
National grants.
Entities eligible to apply for national grants include nonprofit organizations, Federal public agencies, and tribal organizations. These entities must provide information to establish that they are capable of administering a multi-State program, as required by the Secretary. State and local agencies may not apply for these funds.
(b)
State grants.
(1) Section 506(e) of the OAA requires the Department to award each State a grant to provide SCSEP services. Governors, or highest government officials, designate an individual State agency as the organization to administer SCSEP funds.
(2) If the State fails to meet its expected levels of performance for the core indicators for three consecutive years, it is not eligible to designate an agency to administer SCSEP funds in the following year. Instead, the State must conduct a competition to select an organization as the grantee of the funds allotted to the State under § 506(e). Public and nonprofit private agencies and organizations, State agencies other than the previously designated, failed agency, and tribal organizations, are eligible to be selected as a grantee for the funds. Other States may not be selected as a grantee for this funding.
§ 641.410
How does an eligible entity apply?
(a)
General.
An eligible entity must follow the application guidelines issued by the Department. The Department will issue application guidelines announcing the availability of national funds and State funds, whether they are awarded on a competitive or noncompetitive basis. The guidelines will contain application due dates, application instructions, evaluation criteria, and other necessary information.
(b)
National grant applicants.
All applicants for SCSEP national grant funds, except for applications for grants proposing to serve older Indians and Pacific Island and Asian Americans with funds reserved under OAA § 506(a)(3), must submit their applications to the Governor, or the highest government official, of each State in which projects are proposed so that he or she has a reasonable opportunity to make the recommendations described in § 641.480, before submitting the application to the Department. (OAA § 503(a)(5)).
(c)
State applicants.
A State that submits a Combined State Plan under sec. 103 of WIOA may include the State's SCSEP grant application in its Combined State Plan. Any State that submits a SCSEP grant application as part of its WIOA Combined State Plan must address all of the application requirements as published in the Department's instructions. Sections 641.300 through 641.370 address State Plans and modifications.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56883, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.420
What are the eligibility criteria that each applicant must meet?
To be eligible to receive SCSEP funds, each applicant must demonstrate:
(a) An ability to administer a program that serves the greatest number of eligible participants, giving particular consideration to individuals with greatest economic need, individuals with greatest social need, and individuals described in § 641.570(b) or § 641.520(a)(2) through (a)(8).
(b) An ability to administer a program that provides employment in community service assignments for eligible individuals in communities in which they reside, or in nearby communities, that will contribute to the general welfare of the community;
(c) An ability to administer a program that moves eligible participants into unsubsidized employment;
(d) Where the applicant has previously received a SCSEP grant, the applicant's prior performance in meeting SCSEP core measures of performance and addressing SCSEP additional measures of performance; and where the applicant has not received a SCSEP
grant, the applicant's prior performance under other Federal or State programs; relevant past performance will also be used for scoring criterion and will be set forth more fully in the Solicitation for Grant Applications (see § 641.460);
(e) An ability to move participants with multiple barriers to employment, including individuals described in § 641.570(b) or § 641.520(a)(2) through (9), into unsubsidized employment;
(f) An ability to coordinate activities with other organizations at the State and local levels, including the One-Stop delivery system;
(g) An ability to properly manage the program, as reflected in its plan for fiscal management of the SCSEP;
(h) An ability to administer a project that provides community service;
(i) An ability to minimize program disruption for current participants and in community services provided if there is a change in project sponsor and/or location, and its plan for minimizing disruptions;
(j) Any additional criteria that the Department deems appropriate to minimize disruptions for current participants. (OAA § 514(c)).
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 8189, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 641.430
What are the responsibility conditions that an applicant must meet?
Subject to § 641.440, each applicant must meet the listed responsibility “tests” by not having committed the following acts:
(a) The Department has been unable to recover a debt from the applicant, whether incurred by the applicant or by one of its sub-recipients, or the applicant has failed to comply with a debt repayment plan to which it agreed. In this context, a debt is established by final agency action, followed by three demand letters to the applicant, without payment in full by the applicant.
(b) Established fraud or criminal activity of a significant nature within the applicant's organization.
(c) Serious administrative deficiencies identified by the Department, such as failure to maintain a financial management system as required by Federal regulations.
(d) Willful obstruction of the auditing or monitoring process.
(e) Failure to provide services to applicants as agreed to in a current or recent grant or to meet applicable core performance measures or address other applicable indicators of performance.
(f) Failure to correct deficiencies brought to the grantee's attention in writing as a result of monitoring activities, reviews, assessments, or other activities.
(g) Failure to return a grant closeout package or outstanding advances within 90 days after the grant expiration date or receipt of closeout package, whichever is later, unless an extension has been requested and granted.
(h) Failure to submit required reports.
(i) Failure to properly report and dispose of Government property as instructed by the Department.
(j) Failure to have maintained effective cash management or cost controls resulting in excess cash on hand.
(k) Failure to ensure that a sub-recipient complies with applicable audit requirements, including OMB Circular A-133 and the audit requirements specified at § 641.821.
(l) Failure to audit a sub-recipient within the period required under § 641.821.
(m) Final disallowed costs in excess of five percent of the grant or contract award if, in the judgment of the Grant Officer, the disallowances are egregious findings.
(n) Failure to establish a mechanism to resolve a sub-recipient's audit in a timely fashion. (OAA § 514(d)(4)).
§ 641.440
Are there responsibility conditions that alone will disqualify an applicant?
(a) Yes, an applicant may be disqualified if
(1) Either of the first two responsibility tests, a or b, listed in § 641.430 is not met, or
(2) The applicant substantially, or persistently for two or more consecutive years, fails one of the other responsibility tests listed in § 641.430.
(b) The second responsibility test addresses “fraud or criminal activity of a
significant nature.” The Department will determine the existence of significant fraud or criminal activity which typically will include willful or grossly negligent disregard for the use or handling of, or other fiduciary duties concerning, Federal funding, where the grantee has no effective systems, checks, or safeguards to detect or prevent fraud or criminal activity. Additionally, significant fraud or criminal activity will typically include coordinated patterns or behaviors that pervade a grantee's administration or are committed by the higher levels of a grantee's management or authority. The Department will determine whether “fraud or criminal activity of a significant nature” has occurred on a case-by-case basis, regardless of what party identifies the alleged fraud or criminal activity.
§ 641.450
How will the Department examine the responsibility of eligible entities?
The Department will review available records to assess each applicant's overall fiscal and administrative ability to manage Federal funds. The Department's responsibility review may consider all relevant information, including the organization's history of managing other grants awarded by the Department or by other Federal agencies. (OAA § 514(d)(1) and (d)(2)).
§ 641.460
What factors will the Department consider in selecting national grantees?
The Department will select national grantees from among applicants that are able to meet the eligibility and responsibility review criteria at § 514 of the OAA. (Section 641.420 contains the eligibility criteria and §§ 641.430 and 641.440 contain the responsibility criteria.) The Department also will take the rating criteria described in the Solicitation for Grant Applications or other instrument into consideration. These rating criteria will include relevant past performance.
§ 641.465
Under what circumstances may the Department reject an application?
(a) The Department may question any proposed project component of an application if it believes that the component will not serve the purposes of the SCSEP. The Department may reject the application if the applicant does not submit or negotiate an acceptable alternative.
(b) The Department may reject any application that the Grant Officer determines unacceptable based on the content of the application, rating score, past performance, fiscal management, or any other factor the Grant Officer believes serves the best interest of the program, including the application's comparative rating in a competition.
§ 641.470
What happens if an applicant's application is rejected?
(a) Any entity whose application is rejected in whole or in part will be informed that it has not been selected. The non-selected entity may request an explanation of the Department's basis for its rejection. If requested, the Department will provide the entity with feedback on its proposal. The non-selected entity may follow the procedures in § 641.900.
(b) Incumbent grantees will not have an opportunity to obtain technical assistance provided by the Department under OAA § 513(d)(2)(B)(i) to cure, in an open competition, any deficiency in a proposal because that will create inequity in favor of incumbents. Nor, during an open competition, will the Department provide assistance to any applicant to improve its application.
(c) If the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) rules, under § 641.900, that the organization should have been selected, in whole or in part, the matter must be remanded to the Grant Officer. The Grant Officer must, within 10 working days, determine whether the organization continues to meet the requirements of this part, and whether the positions which are the subject of the ALJ's decision will be awarded, in whole or in part, to the organization and the timing of the award. In making this determination, the Grant Officer must take into account disruption to participants, disruption to grantees, and the operational needs of the SCSEP.
(d) In the event that the Grant Officer determines that it is not feasible to award any positions to the appealing
applicant, the applicant will be awarded its bid preparation costs, or a pro rata share of those costs if the Grant Officer's finding applies to only a portion of the funds that would be awarded. If positions are awarded to the appealing applicant, that applicant is not entitled to the full grant amount but will only receive the funds remaining in the grant that have not been expended by the current grantee through its operation of the grant and its subsequent closeout. The available remedy in a SCSEP non-selection appeal is neither retroactive nor immediately effective selection; rather it is the potential to be selected as a SCSEP grantee as quickly as administratively feasible in the future, for the remainder of the grant cycle.
(e) In the event that any party notifies the Grant Officer that it is not satisfied with the Grant Officer's decision, the Grant Officer must return the decision to the ALJ for review.
(f) Any organization selected and/or funded as a SCSEP grantee is subject to having its positions reduced or to being removed as a SCSEP grantee if an ALJ decision so orders. The Grant Officer provides instructions on transition and closeout to both the newly designated grantee and to the grantee whose positions are affected or which is being removed. All parties must agree to the provisions of this paragraph as a condition of being a SCSEP grantee.
§ 641.480
May the Governor, or the highest government official, make recommendations to the Department on national grant applications?
(a) Yes, in accordance with § 641.410(b), each Governor, or highest government official, will have a reasonable opportunity to make comments on any application to operate a SCSEP project located in the Governor's, or the highest government official's, State before the Department makes a final decision on a grant award. The Governor's, or the highest government official's, comments should be directed to the Department and may include the anticipated effect of the proposal on the overall distribution of program positions within the State; recommendations for redistribution of positions to underserved areas as vacancies occur in previously encumbered positions in other areas; and recommendations for distributing any new positions that may become available as a result of an increase in funding for the State. The Governor's, or the highest government official's, recommendations should be consistent with the State Plan. (OAA § 503(a)(5)).
(b) The Governor, or the highest government official, has the option of making the authorized recommendations on all applications or only on those applications proposed for award following the rating process. It is incumbent on each Governor, or the highest government official, to inform the Department of his or her intent to review the applications before or after the rating process.
§ 641.490
When will the Department compete SCSEP grant awards?
(a)(1) The Department will hold a full and open competition for national grants every four years. (OAA § 514(a)(1)).
(2) If a national grantee meets the expected level of performance for each of the core indicators for each of the four years, the Department may provide an additional one-year grant to the national grantee. (OAA § 514(a)(2)).
§ 641.495
When must a State compete its SCSEP award?
If a State grantee fails to meet its expected levels of performance for three consecutive Program Years, the State must hold a full and open competition, under such conditions as the Secretary may provide, for the State SCSEP funds for the full Program Year following the determination of consecutive failure. (OAA § 513(d)(3)(B)(iii)). The incumbent (failed) grantee is not eligible to compete. Other states are also not eligible to compete for these funds. § 641.400(b)(2).

# Subpart E—Services to Participants
§ 641.500
Who is eligible to participate in the SCSEP?
Anyone who is at least 55 years old, unemployed (as defined in § 641.140), and who is a member of a family with an
income that is not more than 125 percent of the family income levels prepared by the Department of Health and Human Services and approved by OMB (Federal poverty guidelines) is eligible to participate in the SCSEP. (OAA sec. 518(a)(3), (9).) A person with a disability may be treated as a “family of one” for income eligibility determination purposes at the option of the applicant.
[82 FR 56883, Dec. 17, 2017]
§ 641.505
When is eligibility determined?
Initial eligibility is determined at the time individuals apply to participate in the SCSEP. Once individuals become SCSEP participants, the grantee or sub-recipient is responsible for verifying their continued eligibility at least once every 12 months. Grantees and sub-recipients may also verify an individual's eligibility as circumstances require, including instances when enrollment is delayed.
§ 641.507
How is applicant income computed?
An applicant's income is computed by calculating the includable income received by the applicant during the 12-month period ending on the date an individual submits an application to participate in the SCSEP, or the annualized income for the 6-month period ending on the application date. The Department requires grantees to use whichever method is more favorable to the individual. (OAA § 518(a)(4)).
§ 641.510
What types of income are included and excluded for participant eligibility determinations?
(a) With certain exceptions, the Department will use the definition of income from the U.S. Census Bureau's Current Population Survey (CPS) as the standard for determining SCSEP applicant income eligibility.
(b) Any income that is unemployment compensation, a benefit received under title XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.
), a payment made to or on behalf of veterans or former members of the Armed Forces under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or 25 percent of a benefit received under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
), must be excluded from SCSEP income eligibility determinations. (OAA § 518(a)(3)(A)).
(c) The Department has issued administrative guidance on income inclusions and exclusions and procedures for determining SCSEP income eligibility. This guidance may be updated periodically.
§ 641.512
May grantees and sub-recipients enroll otherwise eligible job ready individuals and place them directly into unsubsidized employment?
No, grantees and sub-recipients may not enroll as SCSEP participants job-ready individuals who can be directly placed into unsubsidized employment. Such individuals should be referred to an employment provider, such as the One-Stop Center for job placement assistance under WIOA or another employment program.
[82 FR 56883, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.515
How must grantees and sub-recipients recruit and select eligible individuals for participation in the SCSEP?
(a) Grantees and sub-recipients must develop methods of recruitment and selection that assure that the maximum number of eligible individuals have an opportunity to participate in the program. To the extent feasible, grantees and sub-recipients should seek to enroll minority and Indian eligible individuals, eligible individuals with limited English proficiency, and eligible individuals with greatest economic need, at least in proportion to their numbers in the area, taking into consideration their rates of poverty and unemployment. (OAA § 502(b)(1)(M)).
(b) Grantees and sub-recipients must use the One-Stop delivery system as one method in the recruitment and selection of eligible individuals to ensure that the maximum number of eligible individuals have an opportunity to participate in the project. (OAA § 502(b)(1)(H)).
(c) States may enter into agreements among themselves to permit cross-border enrollment of eligible participants. Such agreements should cover both State and national grantee positions
and must be submitted to the Department for approval in the grant application or a modification of the grant.
§ 641.520
Are there any priorities that grantees and sub-recipients must use in selecting eligible individuals for participation in the Senior Community Service Employment Program?
(a) Yes, in selecting eligible individuals for participation in the SCSEP, priority must be given to individuals who have one or more of the following characteristics:
(1) Are 65 years of age or older;
(2) Have a disability;
(3) Have limited English proficiency or low literacy skills;
(4) Reside in a rural area;
(5) Are veterans (or, in some cases, spouses of veterans) for purposes of § 2(a) of the Jobs for Veterans Act, 38 U.S.C. 4215(a) as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section;
(6) Have low employment prospects;
(7) Have failed to find employment after using services provided through the one-stop delivery system;
(8) Are homeless or are at risk for homelessness; or
(9) Are formerly incarcerated individuals as defined in § 641.140. (OAA sec. 518(b).)
(b) Section 2(a) of the Jobs for Veterans Act creates a priority for service for veterans (and, in some cases, spouses of veterans) who otherwise meet the program eligibility criteria for the SCSEP. 38 U.S.C. 4215(a). Priority is extended to veterans. Priority is also extended to the spouse of a veteran who died of a service-connected disability; the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty who has been listed for a total of more than 90 days as missing in action, captured in the line of duty by a hostile force, or forcibly detained by a foreign government or power; the spouse of any veteran who has a total disability resulting from a service-connected disability; and the spouse of any veteran who died while a disability so evaluated was in existence.
(c) Grantees and sub-recipients must apply these priorities in the following order:
(1) Persons who qualify as a veteran or qualified spouse under § 2(a) of the Jobs for Veterans Act, 38 U.S.C. 4215(a), and who possess at least one of the other priority characteristics;
(2) Persons who qualify as a veteran or qualified spouse under § 2(a) of the Jobs for Veterans Act, 38 U.S.C. 4215(a), who do not possess any other of the priority characteristics;
(3) Persons who do not qualify as a veteran or qualified spouse under § 2(a) of the Jobs for Veterans Act (non-veterans), and who possess at least one of the other priority characteristics.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 8190, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 641.535
What services must grantees and sub-recipients provide to participants?
(a) When individuals are selected for participation in the SCSEP, the grantee or sub-recipient is responsible for:
(1) Providing orientation to the SCSEP, including information on project goals and objectives, community service assignments, training opportunities, available supportive services, the availability of a free physical examination, participant rights and responsibilities, and permitted and prohibited political activities;
(2)(i) Assessing participants' work history, skills and interests, talents, physical capabilities, aptitudes, needs for supportive services, occupational preferences, training needs, potential for performing community service assignments, and potential for transition to unsubsidized employment;
(ii) Performing an initial assessment upon program entry, unless an assessment has already been performed under title I of WIOA as provided in § 641.230. Subsequent assessments may be made as necessary, but must be made no less frequently than two times during a 12-month period (including the initial assessment);
(3)(i) Using the information gathered during the initial assessment to develop an IEP that includes an appropriate employment goal for each participant, except that if an assessment has already been performed and an IEP developed under title I of WIOA, the WIOA assessment and IEP will satisfy the requirement for a SCSEP assessment and IEP as provided in § 641.230;
(ii) Updating the IEP as necessary to reflect information gathered during the subsequent participant assessments (OAA § 502(b)(1)(N));
(iii) The initial IEP should include an appropriate employment goal for each participant. Thereafter, if the grantee determines that the participant is not likely to obtain unsubsidized employment, the IEP must reflect other approaches to help the participant achieve self-sufficiency, including the transition to other services or programs.
(4) Placing participants in appropriate community service assignments in the community in which they reside, or in a nearby community (OAA § 502(b)(1)(B));
(5) Providing or arranging for training identified in participants' IEPs and consistent with the SCSEP's goal of unsubsidized employment (OAA § 502(a)(1), 502(b)(1)(B), 502(b)(1)(I), 502(b)(1)(N)(ii));
(6) Assisting participants in obtaining needed supportive services identified in their IEPs (OAA § 502(b)(1)(N));
(7) Providing appropriate services for participants, or referring participants to appropriate services, through the One-Stop delivery system established under WIOA (OAA sec. 502(b)(1)(O));
(8) Providing counseling on participants' progress in meeting the goals and objectives identified in their IEPs, and in meeting their supportive service needs (OAA § 502(b)(1)(N)(iii));
(9) Providing participants with wages and benefits for time spent in the community service assignment, orientation, and training (OAA § 502(b)(1)(I), 502(b)(1)(J), 502(c)(6)(A)(i)) (see also §§ 641.565 and 641.540(f), addressing wages and benefits);
(10) Ensuring that participants have safe and healthy working conditions at their community service employment worksites (OAA § 502(b)(1)(J));
(11) Assisting participants in obtaining unsubsidized employment, including providing or arranging for employment counseling in support of their IEPs;
(b) The Department may issue administrative guidance that clarifies the requirements of paragraph (a).
(c) Grantees may not use SCSEP funds for job ready individuals who only need job search assistance or job referral services. Grantees may provide job search assistance and job club activities to participants who are enrolled in the SCSEP and are assigned to community service assignments. (See also § 641.512).
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56883, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.540
What types of training may grantees and sub-recipients provide to SCSEP participants in addition to the training received at a community service assignment?
(a) In addition to the training provided in a community service assignment, grantees and sub-recipients may arrange skill training provided that it:
(1) Is realistic and consistent with the participants' IEP;
(2) Makes the most effective use of the participant's skills and talents; and
(3) Prepares the participant for unsubsidized employment.
(b) Training may be provided before or during a community service assignment.
(c) Training may be in the form of lectures, seminars, classroom instruction, individual instruction, online instruction, and on-the-job experiences. Training may be provided by the grantee or through other arrangements, including but not limited to, arrangements with other workforce development programs such as WIOA. (OAA sec. 502(c)(6)(A)(ii).)
(d) Grantees and sub-recipients are encouraged to obtain training through locally available resources, including host agencies, at no cost or reduced cost to the SCSEP.
(e) Grantees and sub-recipients may pay for participant training, including the payment of reasonable costs of instructors, classroom rental, training supplies, materials, equipment, and tuition. (OAA § 502(c)(6)(A)(ii)).
(f) Participants must be paid wages while in training, as described in § 641.565(a). (OAA § 502(b)(1)(I)).
(g) As provided in § 641.545, grantees and sub-recipients may pay for costs associated with supportive services, such as transportation, necessary to participate in training. (OAA § 502(b)(1)(L)).
(h) Nothing in this section prevents or limits participants from engaging in self-development training available through other sources, at their own expense, during hours when not performing their community service assignments.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56883, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.545
What supportive services may grantees and sub-recipients provide to participants?
(a) Grantees and sub-recipients are required to assess all participants' need for supportive services and to make every effort to assist participants in obtaining needed supportive services. Grantees and sub-recipients may provide directly or arrange for supportive services that are necessary to enable an individual to successfully participate in a SCSEP project, including but not limited to payment of reasonable costs of transportation; health and medical services; special job-related or personal counseling; incidentals such as work shoes, badges, uniforms, eyeglasses, and tools; dependent care; housing, including temporary shelter; needs-related payments; and follow-up services. (OAA secs. 502(c)(6)(A)(iv), 518(a)(8).)
(b) To the extent practicable, the grantee or sub-recipient should arrange for the payment of these expenses from other resources.
(c) Grantees and sub-recipients are encouraged to contact placed participants throughout the first 12 months following placement to determine if they have the necessary supportive services to remain in the job and to provide or arrange to provide such services if feasible.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56883, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.550
What responsibility do grantees and sub-recipients have to place participants in unsubsidized employment?
For those participants whose IEPs include a goal of unsubsidized employment, grantees and sub-recipients are responsible for working with participants to ensure that the participants are receiving services and taking actions designed to help them achieve this goal. Grantees and sub-recipients must contact private and public employers directly or through the One-Stop delivery system to develop or identify suitable unsubsidized employment opportunities. They must also encourage host agencies to assist participants in their transition to unsubsidized employment, including unsubsidized employment with the host agency.
§ 641.565
What policies govern the provision of wages and benefits to participants?
(a)
Wages.
(1)(i) Grantees and sub-recipients must pay participants the highest applicable required wage for time spent in orientation, training, and community service assignments.
(ii) SCSEP participants may be paid the highest applicable required wage while receiving WIOA career services.
(2) The highest applicable required wage is either the minimum wage applicable under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938; the State or local minimum wage for the most nearly comparable covered employment; or the prevailing rate of pay for persons employed in similar public occupations by the same employer.
(3) Grantees and sub-recipients must make any adjustments to minimum wage rates payable to participants as may be required by Federal, State, or local statute during the grant term.
(b)
Benefits
—(1)
Required benefits.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, grantees and sub-recipients must ensure that participants receive such benefits as are required by law.
(i) Grantees and sub-recipients must provide benefits uniformly to all participants within a project or subproject, unless the Department agrees to waive this provision due to a determination that such a waiver is in the best interests of applicants, participants, and project administration.
(ii) Grantees and sub-recipients must offer participants the opportunity to receive physical examinations annually.
(A) Physical examinations are a benefit, and not an eligibility criterion. The examining physician must provide,
to the participant only, a written report of the results of the examination.
(B) Participants may choose not to accept the physical examination. In that case, the grantee or sub-recipient must document this refusal, through a signed statement, within 60 workdays after commencement of the community service assignment. Each year thereafter, grantees and sub-recipients must offer the physical examination and document the offer and any participant's refusal.
(C) Grantees and sub-recipients may use SCSEP funds to pay the costs of physical examinations.
(iii) When participants are not covered by the State workers' compensation law, the grantee or sub-recipient must provide participants with workers' compensation benefits equal to those provided by law for covered employment. OAA § 504(b).
(iv) If required by State law, grantees/sub-recipients must provide unemployment compensation coverage for participants.
(v) Grantees and sub-recipients must provide compensation for scheduled work hours during which a host agency's business is closed for a Federal holiday, which may be paid or in the form of rescheduled work time.
(vi) Grantees and sub-recipients must provide necessary sick leave that is not part of an accumulated sick leave program, which may be paid or in the form of rescheduled work time.
(2)
Prohibited wage and benefits costs.
(i) Participants may not carry over allowable benefits from one Program Year to the next;
(ii) Grantees and sub-recipients may not provide payment or otherwise compensate participants for unused benefits such as sick leave or holidays;
(iii) Grantees and sub-recipients may not use SCSEP funds to cover costs associated with the following participant benefits:
(A) Retirement. Grantees and sub-recipients may not use SCSEP funds to provide contributions into a retirement system or plan, or to pay the cost of pension benefits for program participants.
(B) Annual leave.
(C) Accumulated sick leave.
(D) Bonuses. (OAA § 502(c)(6)(A)(i)).
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56883, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.570
Is there a time limit for participation in the program?
(a)
Individual time limit.
(1) Eligible individuals may participate in the program for a maximum duration of 48 months in the aggregate (whether or not consecutive), from the later of July 1, 2007, or the date of the individual's enrollment in the program.
(2) At the time of enrollment, the grantee or sub-recipient must inform the participant of this time limit and the possible extension available under paragraph (b) of this section, and the grantee or sub-recipient must provide for a system to transition participants to unsubsidized employment or other assistance before the maximum enrollment duration has expired. Provisions for transition must be reflected in the participant's IEP.
(3) If requested by a grantee or sub-recipient, the Department will authorize an extension for individuals who meet the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section. Notwithstanding any individual extensions granted, grantees and sub-recipients must ensure that projects do not exceed the overall average participation cap for all participants, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Increased periods of individual participation.
If requested by a grantee, the Department will authorize increased periods of participation for individuals who:
(1) Have a severe disability;
(2) Are frail or are age 75 or older;
(3) Meet the eligibility requirements related to age for, but do not receive, benefits under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
);
(4) Live in an area with persistent unemployment and are individuals with severely limited employment prospects;
(5) Have limited English proficiency or low literacy skills; or
(6) Are formerly incarcerated individuals as defined in § 641.140.
(c)
Average grantee participation cap.
(1) Notwithstanding any individual extension authorized under paragraph (b)
of this section, each grantee must manage its SCSEP project in such a way that the grantee does not exceed an average participation cap for all participants of 27 months (in the aggregate).
(2) A grantee may request, and the Department may authorize, an extended average participation period of up to 36 months (in the aggregate) for a particular project area in a given Program Year if the Department determines that extenuating circumstances exist to justify an extension, due to one more of the following factors:
(i) High rates of unemployment or of poverty or of participation in the program of block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy families established under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act, in the areas served by a grantee, relative to other areas of the State involved or the Nation;
(ii) Significant downturns in the economy of an area served by the grantee or in the national economy;
(iii) Significant numbers or proportions of participants with one or more barriers to employment, including “most-in-need” individuals described in § 641.710(a)(6), served by a grantee relative to such numbers or proportions for grantees serving other areas of the State or Nation;
(iv) Changes in Federal, State, or local minimum wage requirements; or
(v) Limited economies of scale for the provision of community service employment and other authorized activities in the areas served by the grantee.
(3) For purposes of the average participation cap, each grantee will be considered to be one project.
(d)
Authorized break in participation.
On occasion a participant takes an authorized break in participation from the program, such as a formal leave of absence necessitated by personal circumstances or a break caused because a suitable community service assignment is not available. Such an authorized break, if taken under a formal grantee policy allowing such breaks and formally entered into the SCSEP Performance and Results Quarterly Performance Reporting (SPARQ) system, will not count toward the individual time limit described in paragraph (a) or the average participation cap described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Administrative guidance.
The Department will issue administrative guidance detailing the process by which a grantee may request increased periods of individual participation, and the process by which a grantee may request an extension of the average participation cap. The process will require that the determination of individual participant extension requests is made in a fair and equitable manner.
(f)
Grantee authority.
Grantees may limit the time of participation for individuals to less than the 48 months described in paragraph (a) of this section, if the grantee uniformly applies the lower participation limit, and if the grantee submits a description of the lower participation limit policy in its grant application or modification of the grant and the Department approves the policy. (OAA §§ 502(b)(1)(C), 518(a)(3)(B)).
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 8190, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 641.575
May a grantee or sub-recipient establish a limit on the amount of time its participants may spend at a host agency?
Yes, grantees and sub-recipients may establish limits on the amount of time that participants spend at a particular host agency, and are encouraged to rotate participants among different host agencies, or to different assignments within the same host agency, as such rotations may increase participants' skills development and employment opportunities. Such limits must be established in the grant agreement or modification of the grant, and approved by the Department. The Department will not approve any limit that does not require an individualized determination that rotation is in the best interest of the participant and will further the acquisition of skills listed in the IEP. Host agency rotations have no effect on either the individual participation limit or the average participation cap.
§ 641.577
Is there a limit on community service assignment hours?
While there is no specific limit on the number of hours that may be worked in a community service assignment, a community service assignment must be a part-time position. However, the Department strongly encourages grantees to use 1,300 hours as a benchmark and good practice for monitoring community service hours.
§ 641.580
Under what circumstances may a grantee or sub-recipient terminate a participant?
(a) If, at any time, a grantee or sub-recipient determines that a participant was incorrectly declared eligible as a result of false information knowingly given by that individual, the grantee or sub-recipient must give the participant immediate written notice explaining the reason(s) for termination and may terminate the participant 30 days after it has provided the participant with written notice.
(b) If, during eligibility verification under § 641.505, a grantee or sub-recipient finds a participant to be no longer eligible for enrollment, the grantee or sub-recipient must give the participant written notice explaining the reason(s) for termination and may terminate the participant 30 days after it has provided the participant with written notice.
(c) If, at any time, the grantee or sub-recipient determines that it incorrectly determined a participant to be eligible for the program through no fault of the participant, the grantee or sub-recipient must give the participant immediate written notice explaining the reason(s) for termination and may terminate the participant 30 days after it has provided the participant with written notice.
(d) A grantee or sub-recipient may terminate a participant for cause. Grantees must include their policies concerning for-cause terminations in the grant application and obtain the Department's approval. The grantee or sub-recipient must give the participant written notice explaining the reason(s) for termination and may terminate the participant 30 days after it has provided the participant with written notice.
(e) A grantee or sub-recipient may terminate a participant if the participant refuses to accept a reasonable number of job offers or referrals to unsubsidized employment consistent with the IEP and there are no extenuating circumstances that would hinder the participant from moving to unsubsidized employment. The grantee or sub-recipient must give the participant written notice explaining the reason(s) for termination and may terminate the participant 30 days after it has provided the participant with written notice.
(f) When a grantee or sub-recipient makes an unfavorable determination of enrollment eligibility under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, it should refer the individual to other potential sources of assistance, such as the One-Stop delivery system. When a grantee or sub-recipient terminates a participant under paragraph (d) or (e) of this section, it may refer the individual to other potential sources of assistance, such as the One-Stop delivery system.
(g) Grantees and sub-recipients must provide each participant at the time of enrollment with a written copy of its policies for terminating a participant for cause or otherwise, and must verbally review those policies with each participant.
(h) Any termination, as described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, must be consistent with administrative guidelines issued by the Department and the termination notice must inform the participant of the grantee's grievance procedure, and the termination must be subject to the applicable grievance procedures described in § 641.910.
(i) Participants may not be terminated from the program solely on the basis of their age. Grantees and sub-recipients may not impose an upper age limit for participation in the SCSEP.
§ 641.585
What is the employment status of SCSEP participants?
(a) Participants are not considered Federal employees solely as a result of their participation in the SCSEP. (OAA § 504(a)).
(b) Grantees must determine whether or not a participant qualifies as an employee of the grantee, sub-recipient,
local project, or host agency, under applicable law. Responsibility for this determination rests with the grantee even when a Federal agency is a grantee or host agency.

# Subpart F—Pilot, Demonstration, and Evaluation Projects
§ 641.600
What is the purpose of the pilot, demonstration, and evaluation projects authorized under § 502(e) of the OAA?
The purpose of the pilot, demonstration, and evaluation projects authorized under § 502(e) of the OAA is to develop and implement techniques and approaches, and to demonstrate the effectiveness of these techniques and approaches, in addressing the employment and training needs of individuals eligible for SCSEP.
§ 641.610
How are pilot, demonstration, and evaluation projects administered?
The Department may enter into agreements with States, public agencies, nonprofit private organizations, or private business concerns, as may be necessary, to conduct pilot, demonstration, and evaluation projects.
§ 641.620
How may an organization apply for pilot, demonstration, and evaluation project funding?
Organizations applying for pilot, demonstration, and evaluation project funding must follow the instructions issued by the Department. Instructions for these unique funding opportunities are published in TEGLs available at
http://www.doleta.gov/Seniors.
§ 641.630
What pilot, demonstration, and evaluation project activities are allowable under the Older Americans Act?
Allowable pilot, demonstration and evaluation projects include:
(a) Activities linking businesses and eligible individuals, including activities providing assistance to participants transitioning from subsidized activities to private sector employment;
(b) Demonstration projects and pilot projects designed to:
(1) Attract more eligible individuals into the labor force;
(2) Improve the provision of services to eligible individuals under One-Stop delivery systems established under title I of WIOA;
(3) Enhance the technological skills of eligible individuals; and
(4) Provide incentives to SCSEP grantees for exemplary performance and incentives to businesses to promote their participation in the SCSEP;
(c) Demonstration projects and pilot projects, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, for workers who are older individuals (but targeted to eligible individuals) only if such demonstration projects and pilot projects are designed to assist in developing and implementing techniques and approaches in addressing the employment and training needs of eligible individuals;
(d) Provision of training and technical assistance to support a SCSEP project;
(e) Dissemination of best practices relating to employment of eligible individuals; and
(f) Evaluation of SCSEP activities.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56884, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.640
Should pilot, demonstration, and evaluation project entities coordinate with SCSEP grantees and sub-recipients, including area agencies on aging?
(a) To the extent practicable, the Department will provide an opportunity, before the development of a demonstration or pilot project, for the appropriate area agency on aging and SCSEP grantees and sub-grantees to submit comments on the project in order to ensure coordination of SCSEP activities with activities carried out under this subpart.
(b) To the extent practicable, entities carrying out pilot, demonstration, and evaluation projects must consult with appropriate area agencies on aging, SCSEP grantees and sub-grantees, and other appropriate agencies and entities to promote coordination of SCSEP and pilot, demonstration, and evaluation activities. (OAA § 502(e)).

# Subpart G—Performance Accountability

# Source:
82 FR 56884, Dec. 1, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 641.700
What performance measures apply to Senior Community Service Employment Program grantees?
(a)
Measures of performance.
There are seven core performance measures. Core measures (defined in § 641.710) are subject to goal-setting and corrective action (described in § 641.720); that is, performance level goals for each core measure must be agreed upon between the Department and each grantee as described in § 641.720, and if a grantee fails to meet the performance level goals for the core measures, that grantee is subject to corrective action.
(b)
Core measures.
Section 513(b)(1) of the OAA establishes the following core measures of performance:
(1) Hours (in the aggregate) of community service employment;
(2) The percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project;
(3) The percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the project;
(4) The median earnings of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project;
(5) Indicators of effectiveness in serving employers, host agencies, and project participants;
(6) The number of eligible individuals served; and
(7) The number of most-in-need individuals served (the number of participating individuals described in OAA sec. 518(a)(3)(B)(ii) or (b)(2)).
(c)
Affected entities.
The core measures of performance are applicable to each grantee without regard to whether such grantee operates the program directly or through sub-contracts, sub-grants, or agreements with other entities. Grantees must assure that their sub-grantees and lower-tier sub-grantees are collecting and reporting program data.
(d)
Required evaluation and reporting.
An agreement to be evaluated on the core measures of performance is a requirement for application for, and is a condition of, all SCSEP grants.
§ 641.710
How are the performance measures defined?
The core measures are defined as follows:
(a) “Hours of community service employment” is defined as the total number of hours of community service provided by SCSEP participants divided by the number of hours of community service funded by the grantee's grant, after adjusting for differences in minimum wage among the States and areas. Paid training hours are excluded from this measure.
(b) “The percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project” is defined by the formula: The number of participants who exited during the reporting period who are employed in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after the exit quarter divided by the number of participants who exited during the reporting period multiplied by 100.
(c) “The percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the project” is defined by the formula: The number of participants who exited during the reporting period who are employed in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after the exit quarter divided by the number of participants who exited during the reporting period multiplied by 100.
(d) “The median earnings of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project” is defined by the formula: For all participants who exited and are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after the exit quarter: The wage that is at the midpoint (of all the wages) between the highest and lowest wage earned in the second quarter after the exit quarter.
(e) “Indicators of effectiveness in serving employers, host agencies, and project participants” is defined as the
combined results of customer assessments of the services received by each of these three customer groups.
(f) “The number of eligible individuals served” is defined as the total number of participants served divided by a grantee's authorized number of positions, after adjusting for differences in minimum wage among the States and areas.
(g) “Most-in-need” or the number of participating individuals described in OAA sec. 518(a)(3)(B)(ii) or (b)(2) is defined by counting the total number of the following characteristics for all participants and dividing by the number of participants served. Participants are characterized as most-in-need if they:
(1) Have a severe disability;
(2) Are frail;
(3) Are age 75 or older;
(4) Meet the eligibility requirements related to age for, but do not receive, benefits under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401
et seq.
);
(5) Live in an area with persistent unemployment and are individuals with severely limited employment prospects;
(6) Have limited English proficiency;
(7) Have low literacy skills;
(8) Have a disability;
(9) Reside in a rural area;
(10) Are veterans;
(11) Have low employment prospects;
(12) Have failed to find employment after utilizing services provided under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act;
(13) Are homeless or at risk for homelessness; or
(14) Are formerly incarcerated individuals as defined in § 641.140.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 8190, Feb. 14, 2022]
§ 641.720
How will the Department and grantees initially determine and then adjust expected levels of the core performance measures?
(a)
First 2 years.
Before the beginning of the first program year of the grant, each grantee must reach agreement with the Department on levels of performance for each measure listed in § 641.700 for each of the first 2 program years covered by the grant agreement. In reaching the agreement, the grantee and the Department must take into account the expected levels of performance proposed by the grantee and the factors described in paragraph (c) of this section.
The levels agreed to will be considered the expected levels of performance for the grantee for such program years. Funds may not be awarded under the grant until such agreement is reached. At the conclusion of negotiations concerning the performance levels with all grantees, the Department will make available for public review the final negotiated expected levels of performance for each grantee, including any comments submitted by the grantee regarding the grantee's satisfaction with the negotiated levels.
(b)
Third and fourth year.
Each grantee must reach agreement with the Department prior to the third program year covered by the grant agreement, on levels of performance for each measure listed in § 641.700, for each of the third and fourth program years so covered. In reaching the agreement, the grantee and the Department must take into account the expected levels of performance proposed by the grantee and the factors described in paragraph (c) of this section. The levels agreed to will be considered to be the expected levels of performance for the grantee for such program years. Funds may not be awarded under the grant until such agreement is reached. At the conclusion of negotiations concerning the performance levels with all grantees, the Department will make available for public review the final negotiated expected levels of performance for each grantee, including any comments submitted by the grantee regarding the grantee's satisfaction with the negotiated levels.
(c)
Factors.
In reaching the agreements described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, each grantee and the Department must:
(1) Take into account how the levels involved compare with the expected levels of performance established for other grantees;
(2) Ensure that the levels involved are adjusted, using an objective statistical model based on the model established by the Secretary of Labor with
the Secretary of Education in accordance with sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(viii) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3141(b)(3)(A)(viii)); and
(3) Take into account the extent to which the levels involved promote continuous improvement in performance accountability on the core measures and ensure optimal return on the investment of Federal funds.
(d)
Adjustments based on economic conditions and individuals served during the program year.
The Department will, in accordance with the objective statistical model developed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, adjust the expected levels of performance for a program year for grantees to reflect the actual economic conditions and characteristics of participants in the corresponding projects during such program year.
§ 641.730
How will the Department assist grantees in the transition to the new core performance measures?
As soon as practicable after January 2, 2018, the Department will determine if a SCSEP grantee's performance under the measures in effect prior to January 2, 2018 would have met the expected levels of performance for the Program Year 2018. If the Department determines that the grantee would have failed to meet the Program Year 2018 expected levels of performance, the Department will provide technical assistance to help the grantee to transition to eventually meet the expected levels of performance under the measures in § 641.700.
§ 641.740
How will the Department determine whether a grantee fails, meets, or exceeds the expected levels of performance and what will be the consequences of failing to meet expected levels of performance?
(a)
Aggregate calculation of performance.
Not later than 120 days after the end of each program year, the Department will determine if a grantee has met the expected levels of performance including any adjustments to such levels made in accordance with § 641.720(d) by aggregating the grantee's core measures. The aggregate is calculated by combining the percentage of goal achieved on each of the individual core measures to obtain an average score. A grantee will fail to meet its performance measures when it is does not meet 80 percent of the agreed-upon level of performance for the aggregate of all the core measures. Performance in the range of 80 to 100 percent constitutes meeting the level for the core performance measures. Performance in excess of 100 percent constitutes exceeding the level for the core performance measures.
(b)
Consequences
—(1)
National grantees.
(i) If the Department determines that a national grantee fails to meet the expected levels of performance in a program year, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department, after each year of such failure, will provide technical assistance and will require such grantee to submit a corrective action plan not later than 160 days after the end of the program year.
(ii) The corrective action plan must detail the steps the grantee will take to meet the expected levels of performance in the next program year.
(iii) Any national grantee that has failed to meet the expected levels of performance for 4 consecutive years will not be allowed to compete in the subsequent grant competition, but may compete in the next grant competition after that subsequent competition.
(2)
State grantees.
(i) If the Department determines that a State fails to meet the expected levels of performance, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department, after each year of such failure, will provide technical assistance and will require the State to submit a corrective action plan not later than 160 days after the end of the program year.
(ii) The corrective action plan must detail the steps the State will take to meet the expected levels of performance in the next program year.
(iii) If the Department determines that the State fails to meet the expected levels of performance for 3 consecutive program years the Department will require the State to conduct a competition to award the funds allotted to the State under sec. 506(e) of the OAA for the first full program year following the Department's determination. The new grantee will be responsible for administering the SCSEP in
the State and will be subject to the same requirements and responsibilities as had been the State grantee.
(c)
Evaluation.
The Department will annually evaluate, publish and make available for public review, information on the actual performance of each grantee with respect to the levels achieved for each of the core measures of performance, compared to the expected levels of performance established under § 641.720 (including any adjustments to such levels made in accordance with § 641.720(d)). The results of the Department's annual evaluation will be reported to Congress.
§ 641.750
Will there be performance-related incentives?
The Department is authorized by OAA secs. 502(e)(2)(B)(iv) and 517(c)(1) to use recaptured SCSEP funds to provide incentive awards. The Department will exercise this authority at its discretion.

# Subpart H—Administrative Requirements
§ 641.800
What uniform administrative requirements apply to the use of SCSEP funds?
(a) SCSEP recipients and sub-recipients must follow the uniform administrative requirements and allowable cost requirements that apply to their type of organization. (OAA § 503(f)(2)).
(b) Governments, State, local, and Indian tribal organizations that receive SCSEP funds under grants or cooperative agreements must follow the common rule implementing OMB Circular A-102, “Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments” (10/07/1994) (further amended 08/29/1997), codified at 29 CFR part 97.
(c) Nonprofit and commercial organizations, institutions of higher education, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations, and commercial organizations that receive SCSEP funds under grants or cooperative agreements must follow the common rule implementing OMB Circular A-110, codified at 29 CFR part 95.
§ 641.803
What is program income?
Program income, as described in 29 CFR 97.25 (State and local governments) and 29 CFR 95.2(bb) (non-profit and commercial organizations), is income earned by the recipient or sub-recipient during the grant period that is directly generated by an allowable activity supported by grant funds or earned as a result of the award of grant funds. Program income includes income earned from license fees and royalties for copyrighted material, patents, patent applications, trademarks, and inventions produced under an award. (
See
29 CFR 95.24(e) (non-profit and commercial organizations) and 29 CFR 97.25(e) (State and local governments)). Costs of generating SCSEP program income may be deducted from gross income received by SCSEP recipients and sub-recipients to determine SCSEP program income earned or generated provided these costs have not been charged to the SCSEP.
§ 641.806
How must SCSEP program income be used?
(a) SCSEP recipients that earn or generate program income during the grant period must add the program income to the Federal and non-Federal funds committed to the SCSEP and must use it to further the purposes of the program and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the grant award. Program income may only be spent during the grant period in which it was earned (except as provided for in paragraph (b)), as provided in 29 CFR 95.24(a) (non-profit and commercial organizations) or 29 CFR 97.25(g) (2) (State and local governments), as applicable.
(b)(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (b)(2), recipients that continue to receive a SCSEP grant from the Department must spend program income earned from SCSEP-funded activities in the Program Year in which the earned income was received.
(2) Any program income remaining at the end of the Program Year in which it was earned will remain available for expenditure in the subsequent Program Year only. Any program income remaining after the second Program Year must be remitted to the Department.
(c) Recipients that do not continue to receive a SCSEP grant from the Department must remit unexpended program income earned during the grant
period from SCSEP funded activities to the Department at the end of the grant period. These recipients have no obligation to the Department for program income earned after the end of the grant period.
§ 641.809
What non-Federal share (matching) requirements apply to the use of SCSEP funds?
(a) The Department will pay no more than 90 percent of the total cost of activities carried out under a SCSEP grant. (OAA sec. 502(c)(1)).
(b) All SCSEP recipients, including Federal agencies if there is no statutory exemption, must provide or ensure that at least 10 percent of the total cost of activities carried out under a SCSEP grant (non-Federal share of costs) consists of allowable costs paid for with non-Federal funds, except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(c) Recipients must determine the non-Federal share of costs in accordance with 29 CFR 97.24 for governmental units, or 29 CFR 95.23 for nonprofit and commercial organizations.
(d) The non-Federal share of costs may be provided in cash, or in-kind, or a combination of the two. (OAA § 502(c)(2)).
(e) A recipient may not require a sub-recipient or host agency to provide non-Federal resources for the use of the SCSEP project as a condition of entering into a sub-recipient or host agency relationship. This does not preclude a sub-recipient or host agency from voluntarily contributing non-Federal resources for the use of the SCSEP project.
(f) The Department may pay all of the costs of activities in an emergency or disaster project or a project in an economically distressed area. (OAA § 502(c)(1)(B)).
§ 641.812
What is the period of availability of SCSEP funds?
(a) Except as provided in § 641.815, recipients must expend SCSEP funds during the Program Year for which they are awarded (July 1-June 30). (OAA § 517(b)).
(b) SCSEP recipients must ensure that no sub-agreement provides for the expenditure of any SCSEP funds before the start of the grant year, or after the end of the grant period, except as provided in § 641.815.
§ 641.815
May the period of availability be extended?
SCSEP recipients may request in writing, and the Department may grant, an extension of the period during which SCSEP funds may be obligated or expended. SCSEP recipients requesting an extension must justify that an extension is necessary. (OAA § 517(b)). The Department will notify recipients in writing of the approval or disapproval of any such requests.
§ 641.821
What audit requirements apply to the use of SCSEP funds?
(a) Recipients and sub-recipients receiving Federal awards of SCSEP funds must follow the audit requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section that apply to their type of organization. As used here, Federal awards of SCSEP funds include Federal financial assistance and Federal cost-reimbursement contracts received directly from the Department or indirectly under awards by SCSEP recipients or higher-tier sub-recipients. (OAA § 503(f)(2)).
(b) All governmental and nonprofit organizations that are recipients or sub-recipients must follow the audit requirements of OMB Circular A-133. These requirements are codified at 29 CFR parts 96 and 99 and referenced in 29 CFR 97.26 for governmental organizations and in 29 CFR 95.26 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other nonprofit organizations.
(c)(1) The Department is responsible for audits of SCSEP recipients that are commercial organizations.
(2) Commercial organizations that are sub-recipients under the SCSEP and that expend more than the minimum level specified in OMB Circular A-133 ($500,000, for fiscal years ending after December 31, 2003) must have either an organization-wide audit or a program-specific financial and compliance audit conducted in accordance with OMB Circular A-133.
§ 641.824
What lobbying requirements apply to the use of SCSEP funds?
SCSEP recipients and sub-recipients must comply with the restrictions on
lobbying codified in the Department's regulations at 29 CFR part 93. (Also refer to § 641.850(c), “Lobbying costs.”)
§ 641.827
What general nondiscrimination requirements apply to the use of SCSEP funds?
(a) SCSEP recipients, sub-recipients, and host agencies are required to comply with the nondiscrimination provisions codified in the Department's regulations at 29 CFR parts 31 and 32 and the provisions on the equal treatment of religious organizations at 29 CFR part 2 subpart D.
(b) Recipients and sub-recipients of SCSEP funds are required to comply with the nondiscrimination provisions codified in the Department's regulations at 29 CFR part 38 if:
(1) The recipient:
(i) Is a One-Stop partner listed in sec. 121(b) of WIOA, and
(ii) Operates programs and activities that are part of the One-Stop delivery system established under WIOA; or
(2) The recipient otherwise satisfies the definition of “recipient” in 29 CFR 38.4.
(c) Recipients must ensure that participants are provided informational materials relating to age discrimination and/or their rights under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1975 that are distributed to recipients by the Department as required by § 503(b)(3) of the OAA.
(d) Questions about or complaints alleging a violation of the nondiscrimination requirements cited in this section may be directed or mailed to the Director, Civil Rights Center, U.S. Department of Labor, Room N-4123, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC, 20210, for processing. (See § 641.910(d)).
(e) The specification of any right or protection against discrimination in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section must not be interpreted to exclude or diminish any other right or protection against discrimination in connection with a SCSEP project that may be available to any participant, applicant for participation, or other individual under any applicable Federal, State, or local laws prohibiting discrimination, or their implementing regulations.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56886, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.833
What policies govern political patronage?
(a) A recipient or sub-recipient must not select, reject, promote, or terminate an individual based on political services provided by the individual or on the individual's political affiliations or beliefs. In addition, as provided in § 641.827(b), certain recipients and sub-recipients of SCSEP funds are required to comply with WIOA nondiscrimination regulations in 29 CFR part 38. These regulations prohibit discrimination on the basis of political affiliation or belief.
(b) A recipient or sub-recipient must not provide, or refuse to provide, funds to any sub-recipient, host agency, or other entity based on political affiliation.
(c) SCSEP recipients must ensure that every entity that receives SCSEP funds through the recipient is applying the policies stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56886, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.836
What policies govern political activities?
(a) No project under title V of the OAA may involve political activities. SCSEP recipients must ensure compliance with the requirements and prohibitions involving political activities described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) State and local employees involved in the administration of SCSEP activities may not engage in political activities prohibited under the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 15), including:
(1) Seeking partisan elective office;
(2) Using official authority or influence for the purpose of affecting elections, nominations for office, or fund-raising for political purposes. (5 U.S.C. 1502).
(c) SCSEP recipients must provide all persons associated with SCSEP activities with a written explanation of allowable and unallowable political activities under the Hatch Act. A notice
explaining these allowable and unallowable political activities must be posted in every workplace in which SCSEP activities are conducted. The Department will provide the form and content of the notice and explanatory material by administrative issuance. (OAA § 502(b)(l)(P)).
(d) SCSEP recipients must ensure that:
(1) No SCSEP participants or staff persons engage in partisan or nonpartisan political activities during hours for which they are being paid with SCSEP funds.
(2) No participants or staff persons engage in partisan political activities in which such participants or staff persons represent themselves as spokespersons for the SCSEP.
(3) No participants are employed or out-stationed in the offices of a Member of Congress, a State or local legislator, or on the staff of any legislative committee.
(4) No participants are employed or out-stationed in the immediate offices of any elected chief executive officer of a State or unit of general government, except that:
(i) Units of local government may serve as host agencies for participants, provided that their assignments are non-political; and
(ii) While assignments may place participants in such offices, such assignments actually must be concerned with program and service activities and not in any way involved in political functions.
(5) No participants are assigned to perform political activities in the offices of other elected officials. Placement of participants in such offices in non-political assignments is permissible, however, provided that:
(i) SCSEP recipients develop safeguards to ensure that participants placed in these assignments are not involved in political activities; and
(ii) These safeguards are described in the grant agreement and are approved by the Department and are subject to review and monitoring by the SCSEP recipient and by the Department.
§ 641.839
What policies govern union organizing activities?
Recipients must ensure that SCSEP funds are not used in any way to assist, promote, or deter union organizing.
§ 641.841
What policies govern nepotism?
(a) SCSEP recipients must ensure that no recipient or sub-recipient hires, and no host agency serves as a worksite for, a person who works in a SCSEP community service assignment if a member of that person's immediate family is engaged in a decision-making capacity (whether compensated or not) for that project, subproject, recipient, sub-recipient, or host agency. The Department may exempt worksites on Native American reservations and in rural areas from this requirement provided that adequate justification can be documented, such as that no other persons are eligible and available for participation in the program.
(b) To the extent that an applicable State or local legal nepotism requirement is more restrictive than this provision, SCSEP recipients must ensure that the more restrictive requirement is followed.
(c) For purposes of this section, “immediate family” means wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother- in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild.
§ 641.844
What maintenance of effort requirements apply to the use of SCSEP funds?
(a) A community service assignment for a participant under title V of the OAA is permissible only when specific maintenance of effort requirements are met.
(b) Each project funded under title V:
(1) Must not reduce the number of employment opportunities or vacancies that would otherwise be available to individuals not participating in the program;
(2) Must not displace currently employed workers (including partial displacement, such as a reduction in the hours of non-overtime work, wages, or employment benefits);
(3) Must not impair existing contracts or result in the substitution of Federal funds for other funds in connection with work that would otherwise be performed; and
(4) Must not employ or continue to employ any eligible individual to perform the same work or substantially the same work as that performed by any other individual who is on layoff. (OAA § 502(b)(1)(G)).
§ 641.847
What uniform allowable cost requirements apply to the use of SCSEP funds?
(a)
General.
Unless specified otherwise in this part or the grant agreement, recipients and sub-recipients must follow the uniform allowable cost requirements that apply to their type of organization. For example, a local government sub-recipient receiving SCSEP funds from a nonprofit organization must use the allowable cost requirements for governmental organizations in OMB Circular A-87. The Department's regulations at 29 CFR 95.27 (non-profit and commercial organizations) and 29 CFR 97.22 (State and local governments) identify the Federal principles for determining allowable costs that each kind of organization must follow. The applicable Federal principles for each kind of organization are described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section. (OAA § 503(f)(2)).
(b)
Allowable costs/cost principles.
(1) Allowable costs for State, local, and Indian tribal government organizations must be determined under OMB Circular A-87, “Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments.”
(2) Allowable costs for nonprofit organizations must be determined under OMB Circular A-122, “Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations.”
(3) Allowable costs for institutions of higher education must be determined under OMB Circular A-21, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.”
(4) Allowable costs for hospitals must be determined in accordance with appendix E of 45 CFR part 74, “Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals.”
(5) Allowable costs for commercial organizations and those nonprofit organizations listed in Attachment C to OMB Circular A-122 must be determined under the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), at 48 CFR part 31.
§ 641.850
Are there other specific allowable and unallowable cost requirements for the SCSEP?
(a) Yes, in addition to the generally applicable cost principles in § 641.847(b), the cost principles in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section apply to SCSEP grants.
(b)
Claims against the Government.
For all types of entities, legal expenses for the prosecution of claims against the Federal Government, including appeals to an Administrative Law Judge, are unallowable.
(c)
Lobbying costs.
In addition to the prohibition contained in 29 CFR part 93, SCSEP funds must not be used to pay any salaries or expenses related to any activity designed to influence legislation or appropriations pending before the Congress of the United States or any State legislature. (See § 641.824).
(d)
One-Stop costs.
Costs of participating as a required partner in the One-Stop delivery system established in accordance with sec. 121(e) of WIOA are allowable, provided that SCSEP services and funding are provided in accordance with the MOU required by WIOA and OAA sec. 502(b)(1)(O), and costs are determined in accordance with the applicable cost principles. The costs of services provided by the SCSEP, including those provided by participants/enrollees, may comprise a portion or the total of a SCSEP project's proportionate share of One-Stop costs.
(e)
Building repairs and acquisition costs.
Except as provided in this paragraph and as an exception to the allowable cost principles in § 641.847(b), no SCSEP funds may be used for the purchase, construction, or renovation of any building except for the labor involved in:
(1) Minor remodeling of a public building necessary to make it suitable for use for project purposes;
(2) Minor repair and rehabilitation of publicly used facilities for the general benefit of the community; and
(3) Repair and rehabilitation by participants of housing occupied by persons with low incomes who are declared eligible for such services by authorized local agencies.
(f)
Accessibility and reasonable accommodation.
Recipients and sub-recipients may use SCSEP funds to meet their obligations under § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and any other applicable Federal disability nondiscrimination laws, to provide physical and programmatic accessibility and reasonable accommodation/modifications for, and effective communications with, individuals with disabilities. (29 U.S.C. 794).
(g)
Participants' benefit costs.
Recipients and sub-recipients may use SCSEP funds for participant benefit costs only under the conditions set forth in § 641.565.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56886, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.853
How are costs classified?
(a) All costs must be classified as “administrative costs” or “programmatic activity costs.” (OAA § 502(c)(6)).
(b) Recipients and sub-recipients must assign participants' wage and benefit costs and other participant (enrollee) costs such as supportive services to the programmatic activity cost category. (See § 641.864). When a participant's community service assignment involves functions whose costs are normally classified as administrative costs, compensation provided to the participants must be charged as programmatic activity costs instead of administrative costs, since participant wage and benefit costs are always charged to the programmatic activity cost category.
§ 641.856
What functions and activities constitute administrative costs?
(a) Administrative costs are that allocable portion of necessary and reasonable allowable costs of recipients and program operators that are associated with those specific functions identified in paragraph (b) of this section and that are not related to the direct provision of programmatic activities specified in § 641.864. These costs may be both personnel and non-personnel and both direct and indirect costs.
(b) Administrative costs are the costs associated with:
(1) Performing general administrative and coordination functions, including:
(i) Accounting, budgeting, financial, and cash management functions;
(ii) Procurement and purchasing functions;
(iii) Property management functions;
(iv) Personnel management functions;
(v) Payroll functions;
(vi) Coordinating the resolution of findings arising from audits, reviews, investigations, and incident reports;
(vii) Audit functions;
(viii) General legal services functions;
(ix) Developing systems and procedures, including information systems, required for these administrative functions;
(x) Preparing administrative reports; and
(xi) Other activities necessary for general administration of government funds and associated programs.
(2) Oversight and monitoring responsibilities related to administrative functions;
(3) Costs of goods and services used for administrative functions of the program, including goods and services such as rental or purchase of equipment, utilities, office supplies, postage, and rental and maintenance of office space;
(4) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out administrative activities or the overall management of the program;
(5) Costs of information systems related to administrative functions (for example, personnel, procurement, purchasing, property management, accounting, and payroll systems) including the purchase, systems development, and operating costs of such systems and;
(6) Costs of technical assistance, professional organization membership dues, and evaluating results obtained by the project involved against stated objectives. (OAA § 502(c)(4)).
§ 641.859
What other special rules govern the classification of costs as administrative costs or programmatic activity costs?
(a) Recipients and sub-recipients must comply with the special rules for classifying costs as administrative costs or programmatic activity costs set forth in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
(b)(1) Costs of awards by recipients and program operators that are solely for the performance of their own administrative functions are classified as administrative costs.
(2) Costs incurred by recipients and program operators for administrative functions listed in § 641.856(b) are classified as administrative costs.
(3) Costs incurred by vendors and sub-recipients performing the administrative functions of recipients and program operators are classified as administrative costs. (See 29 CFR 99.210 for a discussion of factors differentiating sub-recipients from vendors.)
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, all costs incurred by all vendors, and only those sub-recipients below program operators, are classified as programmatic activity costs. (
See
29 CFR 99.210 for a discussion of factors differentiating sub-recipients from vendors.)
(c) Personnel and related non-personnel costs of staff who perform both administrative functions specified in § 641.856(b) and programmatic services or activities must be allocated as administrative or programmatic activity costs to the benefiting cost objectives/categories based on documented distributions of actual time worked or other equitable cost allocation methods.
(d) The allocable share of indirect or overhead costs charged to the SCSEP grant are to be allocated to the administrative and programmatic activity cost categories in the same proportion as the costs in the overhead or indirect cost pool are classified as programmatic activity or administrative costs.
(e) Costs of the following information systems including the purchase, systems development and operating (e.g., data entry) costs are charged to the programmatic activity cost category:
(1) Tracking or monitoring of participant and performance information;
(2) Employment statistics information, including job listing information, job skills information, and demand occupation information; and
(3) Local area performance information.
§ 641.861
Must SCSEP recipients provide funding for the administrative costs of sub-recipients?
(a) Recipients and sub-recipients must obtain funding for administrative costs to the extent practicable from non-Federal sources. (OAA § 502(c)(5)).
(b) SCSEP recipients must ensure that sufficient funding is provided for the administrative activities of sub-recipients that receive SCSEP funding through the recipient. Each SCSEP recipient must describe in its grant application the methodology used to ensure that sub-recipients receive sufficient funding for their administrative activities. (OAA § 502(b)(1)(R)).
§ 641.864
What functions and activities constitute programmatic activity costs?
Programmatic activity costs include, but are not limited to, the costs of the following functions:
(a) Participant wages, such benefits as are required by law (such as workers' compensation or unemployment compensation), the costs of physical examinations, compensation for scheduled work hours during which a host agency is closed for a Federal holiday, and necessary sick leave that is not part of an accumulated sick leave program, except that no amounts provided under the grant may be used to pay the cost of pension benefits, annual leave, accumulated sick leave, or bonuses, as described in § 641.565;
(b) Outreach, recruitment and selection, intake, orientation, assessment, and preparation and updating of IEPs;
(c) Participant training, as described in § 641.540, which may be provided before commencing or during a community service assignment, and which may be provided at a host agency, in a classroom setting, or using other appropriate arrangements, which may include reasonable costs of instructors'
salaries, classroom space, training supplies, materials, equipment, and tuition;
(d) Subject to the restrictions in § 641.535(c), job placement assistance, including job development and job search assistance, job fairs, job clubs, and job referrals; and
(e) Participant supportive services, to enable an individual to successfully participate in a SCSEP project, as described in § 641.545. (OAA § 502(c)(6)(A)).
§ 641.867
What are the limitations on the amount of SCSEP administrative costs?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b), no more than 13.5 percent of the SCSEP funds received for a Program Year may be used for administrative costs.
(b) The Department may increase the amount available for administrative costs to not more than 15 percent, in accordance with § 641.870. (OAA § 502(c)(3)).
§ 641.870
Under what circumstances may the administrative cost limitation be increased?
(a) SCSEP recipients may request that the Department increase the amount available for administrative costs. The Department may honor the request if:
(1) The Department determines that it is necessary to carry out the project; and
(2) The recipient demonstrates that:
(i) Major administrative cost increases are being incurred in necessary program components, such as liability insurance, payments for workers' compensation for staff, costs associated with achieving unsubsidized placement goals, and other operation requirements imposed by the Department;
(ii) The number of community service assignment positions in the project or the number of minority eligible individuals participating in the project will decline if the amount available for paying the cost of administration is not increased; or
(iii) The size of the project is so small that the amount of administrative costs incurred to carry out the project necessarily exceeds 13.5 percent of the grant amount. (OAA § 502(c)(3)).
(b) A request by a recipient or prospective recipient for an increase in the amount available for administrative costs may be submitted as part of the grant application or as a separate submission at any time after the grant award.
§ 641.873
What minimum expenditure levels are required for participant wages and benefits?
(a) Except as provided in § 641.874 or in paragraph (c) of this section, not less than 75 percent of the SCSEP funds provided under a grant from the Department must be used to pay for wages and benefits of participants as described in § 641.864(a). (OAA § 502(c)(6)(B)).
(b) A SCSEP recipient is in compliance with this provision if at least 75 percent of the total expenditure of SCSEP funds provided to the recipient was for wages and benefits, even if one or more sub-recipients did not expend at least 75 percent of their SCSEP sub-recipient award for wages and benefits.
(c) A SCSEP grantee may submit to the Department a request for approval to use not less than 65 percent of the grant funds to pay wages and benefits under § 641.874.
§ 641.874
What conditions apply to a SCSEP grantee request to use additional funds for training and supportive service costs?
(a) A grantee may submit to the Department a request for approval—
(1) To use not less than 65 percent of the grant funds to pay the wages and benefits described in § 641.864(a);
(2) To use the percentage of grant funds specified in § 641.867 to pay for administrative costs as described in § 641.856;
(3) To use the 10 percent of grant funds that would otherwise be devoted to wages and benefits under § 641.873 to provide participant training (as described in § 641.540(e)) and participant supportive services to enable participants to successfully participate in a SCSEP project (as described in § 641.545), in which case the grantee must provide (from the funds described in this paragraph) the wages for those individual participants who are receiving training from the funds described in this paragraph, but may not use the
funds described in this paragraph to pay for any administrative costs; and
(4) To use the remaining grant funds to provide participant training, job placement assistance, participant supportive services, and outreach, recruitment and selection, intake, orientation and assessment.
(b) In submitting the request the grantee must include in the request—
(1) A description of the activities for which the grantee will spend the grant funds described in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section;
(2) An explanation documenting how the provision of such activities will improve the effectiveness of the project, including an explanation of whether any displacement of eligible individuals or elimination of positions for such individuals will occur, information on the number of such individuals to be displaced and of such positions to be eliminated, and an explanation of how the activities will improve employment outcomes for the individuals served, based on the assessment conducted under § 641.535(a)(2); and
(3) A proposed budget and work plan for the activities, including a detailed description of how the funds will be spent on the activities described in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section.
(c)(1) If a grantee wishes to amend an existing grant agreement to use additional funds for training and supportive service costs, the grantee must submit such a request not later than 90 days before the proposed date of implementation contained in the request. Not later than 30 days before the proposed date of implementation, the Department will approve, approve as modified, or reject the request, on the basis of the information included in the request.
(2) If a grantee submits a request to use additional funds for training and supportive service costs in the grant application, the request will be accepted and processed as a part of the grant review process.
(d) Grantees may apply this provision to individual sub-recipients but need not provide this opportunity to all their sub-recipients.
§ 641.876
How will compliance with cost limitations and minimum expenditure levels be determined?
The Department will determine compliance by examining expenditures of SCSEP funds. The cost limitations and minimum expenditure level requirements must be met at the time all such funds have been expended or the period of availability of such funds has expired, whichever comes first.
§ 641.879
What are the financial and performance reporting requirements for recipients?
(a) In accordance with 29 CFR 97.41 (State and local governments) or 29 CFR 95.52 (non-profit and commercial organizations), each SCSEP recipient must submit a SCSEP Financial Status Report (FSR, ETA Form 9130) in electronic format to the Department via the Internet within 45 days after the ending of each quarter of the Program Year. Each SCSEP recipient must also submit a final closeout FSR to the Department via the Internet within 90 days after the end of the grant period. The Department will provide instructions for the preparation of this report. (OAA § 503(f)(3)).
(1) Financial data must be reported on an accrual basis, and cumulatively by funding year of appropriation. Financial data may also be required on specific program activities as required by the Department.
(2) If the SCSEP recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis of accounting, the SCSEP recipient must develop accrual information through an analysis of the documentation on hand.
(b) In accordance with 29 CFR 97.40 (State and local governments) or 29 CFR 95.51 (non-profit and commercial organizations), each SCSEP recipient must submit updated data on participants (including data on demographic characteristics and data regarding the performance measures), host agencies, and employers in an electronic format specified by the Department via the Internet within 30 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of the Program Year, on the last day of the fourth quarter of the Program Year, and within 90 days after the last day of the Program Year. Recipients wishing
to correct data errors or omissions for their final Program Year report must do so within 90 days after the end of the Program Year. The Department will generate SCSEP Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs), as well as the final QPR, as soon as possible after receipt of the data. (OAA § 503(f)(3)).
(c) Each State agency receiving title V funds must annually submit an equitable distribution report of SCSEP positions by all recipients in the State. The Department will provide instructions for the preparation of this report. (OAA § 508).
(d) In addition to the data required to be submitted under paragraph (b) of this section, each SCSEP recipient may be required to collect data and submit reports on the performance measures. See subpart G. The Department will provide instructions detailing these measures and how recipients must prepare this report.
(e) In addition to the data required to be submitted under paragraph (b) of this section, each SCSEP recipient may be required to collect data and submit reports about the demographic characteristics of program participants. The Department will provide instructions detailing these measures and how recipients must prepare these reports.
(f) Federal agencies that receive and use SCSEP funds under interagency agreements must submit project financial and progress reports in accordance with this section. Federal recipients must maintain the necessary records that support required reports according to instructions provided by the Department. (OAA § 503(f)(3)).
(g) Recipients may be required to maintain records that contain any other information that the Department determines to be appropriate in support of any other reports that the Department may require. (OAA § 503(f)(3)).
(h) Grantees submitting reports that cannot be validated or verified as accurately counting and reporting activities in accordance with the reporting instructions may be treated as failing to submit reports, which may result in failing one of the responsibility tests outlined in § 641.430 and OAA § 514(d).
§ 641.881
What are the SCSEP recipient's responsibilities relating to awards to sub-recipients?
(a) Recipients are responsible for ensuring that all awards to sub-recipients are conducted in a manner to provide, to the maximum extent practicable, full and open competition in accordance with the procurement procedures in 29 CFR 95.43 (non-profit and commercial organizations) and 29 CFR 97.36 (State and local governments).
(b) The SCSEP recipient is responsible for all grant activities, including the performance of SCSEP activities by sub-recipients, and ensuring that sub-recipients comply with the OAA and this part. (See also OAA § 514(d) and § 641.430 of this part on responsibility tests).
(c) Recipients must follow their own procedures for allocating funds to other entities. The Department will not grant funds to another entity on the recipient's behalf.
(d)(1) National grantees that receive grants to provide services in an area where a substantial population of individuals with barriers to employment exists must, in selecting sub-recipients, give special consideration to organizations (including former national grant recipients) with demonstrated expertise in serving such individuals. (OAA § 514(e)(2)).
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “individuals with barriers to employment” means minority individuals, Indian individuals, individuals with greatest economic need, and most-in-need individuals. (OAA § 514(e)(1)).
§ 641.884
What are the grant closeout procedures?
SCSEP recipients must follow the grant closeout procedures at 29 CFR 97.50 (State and local governments) or 29 CFR 95.71 (non-profit and government organizations), as appropriate. The Department will issue supplementary closeout instructions to OAA title V recipients as necessary.

# Subpart I—Grievance Procedures and Appeals Process
§ 641.900
What appeal process is available to an applicant that does not receive a grant?
(a) An applicant for financial assistance under title V of the OAA that is dissatisfied because it was not awarded financial assistance in whole or in part may request that the Grant Officer provide an explanation for not awarding financial assistance to that applicant. The request must be filed within 10 days of the date of notification indicating that financial assistance would not be awarded. The Grant Officer must provide the protesting applicant with feedback concerning its proposal within 21 days of the protest. Applicants may appeal to the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ), within 21 days of the date of the Grant Officer's feedback on the proposal, or within 21 days of the Grant Officer's notification that financial assistance would not be awarded if the applicant does not request feedback on its proposal. The appeal may be for a part or the whole of the denied funding. This appeal will not in any way interfere with the Department's decisions to fund other organizations to provide services during the appeal period.
(b) Failure to file an appeal within the 21 days provided in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing.
(c) A request for a hearing under this section must state specifically those issues in the Grant Officer's notification upon which review is requested. Those provisions of the Grant Officer's notification not specified for review are considered resolved and not subject to further review.
(d) A request for a hearing must be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, with one copy to the Departmental official who issued the determination.
(e) The decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action unless, within 21 days of the decision, a party dissatisfied with the ALJ's decision, in whole or in part, has filed a petition for review with the Administrative Review Board (ARB) (established under Secretary's Order No. 01-2020), specifically identifying the procedure, fact, law, or policy to which exception is taken, in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. The Department will deem any exception not specifically urged to have been waived. A copy of the petition for review must be sent to the grant officer at that time. If, within 30 days of the filing of the petition for review, the ARB does not notify the parties that the case has been accepted for review, then the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action. In any case accepted by the ARB, a decision must be issued by the ARB within 180 days of acceptance. If a decision is not so issued, the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action.
(f) The Rules of Practice and Procedures for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges, at 29 CFR part 18, govern the conduct of hearings under this section, except that:
(1) The appeal is not considered a complaint; and
(2) Technical rules of evidence, such as the Federal Rules of Evidence and subpart B of 29 CFR part 18, will not apply to any hearing conducted under this section. However, rules designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination will be applied when the ALJ conducting the hearing considers them reasonably necessary. The certified copy of the administrative file transmitted to the ALJ by the official issuing the notification not to award financial assistance must be part of the evidentiary record of the case and need not be moved into evidence.
(g) The ALJ should render a written decision no later than 90 days after the closing of the record.
(h) The remedies available are provided in § 641.470.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 13028, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30614, May 20, 2020; 86 FR 1777, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 641.910
What grievance procedures must grantees make available to applicants, employees, and participants?
(a) Each grantee must establish, and describe in the grant agreement, grievance procedures for resolving complaints, other than those described by paragraph (d) of this section, arising between the grantee, employees of the grantee, sub-recipients, and applicants or participants.
(b) The Department will not review final determinations made under paragraph (a) of this section, except to determine whether the grantee's grievance procedures were followed, and according to paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Allegations of violations of Federal law, other than those described in paragraph (d) of this section, which are not resolved within 60 days under the grantee's procedures, may be filed with the Chief, Division of Adult Services, Employment and Training Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. Allegations determined to be substantial and credible will be investigated and addressed.
(d) Questions about, or complaints alleging a violation of, the nondiscrimination requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, sec. 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, sec. 188 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), or their implementing regulations, may be directed or mailed to the Director, Civil Rights Center, U.S. Department of Labor, Room N-4123, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210. In the alternative, complaints alleging violations of WIOA sec. 188 may be filed initially at the grantee level. See 29 CFR 38.69, 38.72. In such cases, the grantee must use complaint processing procedures meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 38.69 through 38.76 to resolve the complaint.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56886, Dec. 1, 2017]
§ 641.920
What actions of the Department may a grantee appeal and what procedures apply to those appeals?
(a) Appeals from a final disallowance of costs as a result of an audit must be made under 29 CFR 96.63.
(b) Appeals of suspension or termination actions taken on the grounds of discrimination are processed under 29 CFR part 31 or 29 CFR part 38, as appropriate.
(c) Protests and appeals of decisions not to award a grant, in whole or in part, will be handled under § 641.900.
(d) Upon a grantee's receipt of the Department's final determination relating to costs (except final disallowance of costs as a result of an audit, as described in paragraph (a) of this section), payment, suspension or termination, or the imposition of sanctions, the grantee may appeal the final determination to the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges, as follows:
(1) Within 21 days of receipt of the Department's final determination, the grantee may file a request for a hearing with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, United States Department of Labor, in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, with a copy to the Department official who signed the final determination.
(2) The request for hearing must be accompanied by a copy of the final determination, and must state specifically those issues of the determination upon which review is requested. Those provisions of the determination not specified for review, or the entire determination when no hearing has been requested within the 21 days, are considered resolved and not subject to further review.
(3) The Rules of Practice and Procedures for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges, at 29 CFR part 18, govern the conduct of hearings under this section, except that:
(i) The appeal is not considered as a complaint; and
(ii) Technical rules of evidence, such as the Federal Rules of Evidence and subpart B of 29 CFR part 18, will not apply to any hearing conducted under this section. However, rules designed to assure production of the most credible
evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination will be applied when the Administrative Law Judge conducting the hearing considers them reasonably necessary. The certified copy of the administrative file transmitted to the Administrative Law Judge by the official issuing the final determination must be part of the evidentiary record of the case and need not be moved into evidence.
(4) The Administrative Law Judge should render a written decision no later than 90 days after the closing of the record. In ordering relief, the ALJ may exercise the full authority of the Secretary under the OAA.
(5) The decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action unless, within 21 days of the decision, a party dissatisfied with the ALJ's decision, in whole or in part, has filed a petition for review with the ARB (established under Secretary's Order No. 01-2020), specifically identifying the procedure, fact, law, or policy to which exception is taken, in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. The Department will deem any exception not specifically argued to have been waived. A copy of the petition for review must be sent to the grant officer at that time. If, within 30 days of the filing of the petition for review, the ARB does not notify the parties that the case has been accepted for review, then the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action. In any case accepted by the ARB, a decision must be issued by the ARB within 180 days of acceptance. If a decision is not so issued, the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action.
[75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 56886, Dec. 1, 2017; 85 FR 13028, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30614, May 20, 2020; 86 FR 1777, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 641.930
Is there an alternative dispute resolution process that may be used in place of an OALJ hearing?
(a) Parties to a complaint that has been filed according to the requirements of § 641.920 (a), (c), and (d) may choose to waive their rights to an administrative hearing before the OALJ. Instead, they may choose to transfer the settlement of their dispute to an individual acceptable to all parties who will conduct an informal review of the stipulated facts and render a decision in accordance with applicable law. A written decision must be issued within 60 days after submission of the matter for informal review.
(b) Unless the parties agree in writing to extend the period, the waiver of the right to request a hearing before the OALJ will automatically be revoked if a settlement has not been reached or a decision has not been issued within the 60 days provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The decision rendered under this informal review process will be treated as the final agency decision.
PART 646 [RESERVED]
Pt. 650

# PART 650—STANDARD FOR APPEALS PROMPTNESS—UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION
Sec.
650.1
Nature and purpose of the standard.
650.2
Federal law requirements.
650.3
Secretary's interpretation of Federal law requirements.
650.4
Review of State law and criteria for review of State compliance.
650.5
Annual appeals performance plan.

# Authority:
Sec. 1102 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1302; Secretary's Order No. 4-75, dated April 16, 1975. Interpret and apply secs. 303(a)(1), 303(a)(3), and 303(b)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 503(a)(1), 503(a)(3), 503(b)(2)).

# Source:
37 FR 16173, Aug. 11, 1972, unless otherwise noted.
§ 650.1
Nature and purpose of the standard.
(a) This standard is responsive to the overriding concern of the U.S. Supreme Court in California Department of Human Resources v. Java, 402 U.S. 121 (1971), and that of other courts with delay in payment of unemployment compensation to eligible individuals, including delays caused specifically by the adjudication process. The standard seeks to assure that all administrative appeals affecting benefit rights are heard and decided with the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible.
(b) Sections 303(a) (1) and (3) of the Social Security Act require, as a condition for the receipt of granted funds,
that State laws include provisions for methods of administration reasonably calculated to insure full payment of unemployment compensation when due, and opportunity for a fair hearing for all individuals whose claims for unemployment compensation are denied. The Secretary has construed these provisions to require, as a condition for receipt of granted funds, that State laws include provisions for hearing and deciding appeals for all unemployment insurance claimants who are parties to an administrative benefit appeal with the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible. What is the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible in an individual case depends on the facts and circumstances of that case. For example, the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible will be longer in cases that involve interstate appeals, complex issues of fact or law, reasonable requests by parties for continuances or rescheduling of hearings or other unforeseen and uncontrollable factors than it will be for other cases.
(c) In addition, the Secretary has construed section 303(b)(2) of the Social Security Act as requiring States to comply substantially with the required provisions of State law. The Secretary considers as substantial compliance the issuance of minimum percentages of first level benefit appeal decisions within the periods of time specified in § 650.4.
(d) Although the interpretation of Federal law requirements in § 650.3 below applies to both first and second level administrative benefit appeals, the criteria for review of State compliance in § 650.3(b) apply only to first level benefit appeals.
§ 650.2
Federal law requirements.
(a) Section 303(a)(1) of the Social Security Act requires that a State law include provision for:
Such methods of administration * * * as are found by the Secretary of Labor to be reasonably calculated to insure full payment of unemployment compensation when due.
(b) Section 303(a)(3) of the Social Security Act requires that a State law include provision for:
Opportunity for a fair hearing, before an impartial tribunal, for all individuals whose claims for unemployment compensation are denied.
(c) Section 303(b)(2) of the Social Security Act provides that:
Whenever the Secretary of Labor, after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing to the State agency charged with the administration of the State law, finds that in the administration of the law there is—
(1) * * *
(2) A failure to comply substantially with any provision specified in subsection (a) [303(a)]; the Secretary of Labor shall notify such State agency that further payments will not be made to the State until he is satisfied that there is no longer any such denial or failure to comply. Until the Secretary of Labor is so satisfied, he shall make no further certification to the Secretary of the Treasury with respect to such State * * *
§ 650.3
Secretary's interpretation of Federal law requirements.
(a) The Secretary interprets sections 303(a)(1) and 303(a)(3) above to require that a State law include provision for—
(1) Hearing and decision for claimants who are parties to an appeal from a benefit determination to an administrative tribunal with the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible, and
(2) Such methods of administration of the appeals process as will reasonably assure hearing and decision with the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible.
(b) The Secretary interprets section 303(b)(2) above to require a State to comply substantially with provisions specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 650.4
Review of State law and criteria for review of State compliance.
(a) A State law will satisfy the requirements of § 650.3(a) if it contains a provision requiring, or is construed to require, hearing and decision for claimants who are parties to an administrative appeal affecting benefit rights with the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible.
(b) A State will be deemed to comply substantially with the State law requirements set forth in § 650.3(a) with respect to first level appeals, the State has issued at least 60 percent of all
first level benefit appeal decisions within 30 days of the date of appeal, and at least 80 percent of all first level benefit appeal decisions within 45 days. These computations will be derived from the State's regular reports required pursuant to the Unemployment Compensation Manual, part III, sections 4400-4450.
1
1
The Unemployment Compensation Manual is available at each regional office of the Department of Labor and at the headquarters' office of each State unemployment compensation agency.
[37 FR 16173, Aug. 11, 1972, as amended at 41 FR 6757, Feb. 13, 1976; 71 FR 35517, June 21, 2006]
§ 650.5
Annual appeals performance plan.
No later than December 15 of each year, each State shall submit an appeals performance plan showing how it will operate during the following calendar year so as to achieve or maintain the issuance of at least 60 percent of all first level benefit appeals decisions within 30 days of the date of appeal, and 80 percent within 45 days.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1205-0132)
(Pub. L. No. 96-511)
[41 FR 6757, Feb. 13, 1976, as amended at 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984; 71 FR 35517, June 21, 2006]
Pt. 651

# PART 651—GENERAL PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 49a and 49k; 38 U.S.C. 101, chapters 41 and 42; Secs. 3, 189 and 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).
§ 651.10
Definitions of terms used in this part and parts 652, 653, 654, and 658 of this chapter.
In addition to the definitions set forth in sec. 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), codified at 29 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.,
the following definitions apply to the regulations in parts 652, 653, 654, and 658 of this chapter:
Act
means the Wagner-Peyser Act (codified at 29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
).
Administrator, Office of Workforce Investment (OWI Administrator)
means the chief official of the Office of Workforce Investment (OWI) or the Administrator's designee.
Agent
means a legal entity or person, such as an association of employers, or an attorney for an association, that is authorized to act on behalf of the employer for purposes of recruitment of workers through the clearance system and is not itself an employer or joint employer, as defined in this section, with respect to a specific job order.
Agricultural employer
means any employer as defined in this part who owns or operates a farm, ranch, processing establishment, cannery, gin, packing shed or nursery, or who produces or conditions seed, and who either recruits, solicits, hires, employs, furnishes, or transports any migrant or seasonal farmworker or any agricultural employer as described in 29 U.S.C. 1802(2).
Agricultural worker
see
Farmworker.
Apparent violation
means a suspected violation of employment-related laws or employment service (ES) regulations by an employer, which an ES staff member observes, has reason to believe, or regarding which an ES staff member receives information (other than a
complaint
as defined in this part).
Applicant holding office
means an ES office that is in receipt of a clearance order and has access to U.S. workers who may be willing and available to perform farmwork on less than year-round basis.
Applicant Holding State
means a State Workforce Agency that is in receipt of a clearance order from another State and potentially has U.S. workers who may be willing and available to perform farmwork on a less than year-round basis.
Bona fide occupational qualification (BFOQ)
means that an employment decision or request based on age, sex, national origin, or religion is based on a finding that such characteristic is necessary to the individual's ability to perform the job in question. Since a BFOQ is an exception to the general prohibition against discrimination on the basis of age, sex, national origin, or
religion, it must be interpreted narrowly in accordance with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission regulations set forth at 29 CFR parts 1604, 1605, 1606, and 1625.
Career services
means the services described in sec. 134(c)(2) of WIOA and § 678.430 of this chapter.
Clearance order
means a job order that is processed through the clearance system under the Agricultural Recruitment System (ARS) at part 653, subpart F, of this chapter.
Clearance system
means the orderly movement of U.S. job seekers as they are referred through the employment placement process by an ES office. This includes joint action of local ES offices in different labor market areas and/or States.
Complainant
means the individual, employer, organization, association, or other entity filing a complaint.
Complaint
means a representation made or referred to a State or ES office of an alleged violation of the ES regulations and/or other Federal laws enforced by the Department's Wage and Hour Division (WHD) or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), as well as other Federal, State, or local agencies enforcing employment-related law.
Complaint System Representative
means a trained ES staff individual who is responsible for processing complaints.
Criteria clearance order
means a clearance order that is attached to an application for foreign temporary agricultural workers pursuant to part 655, subpart B, of this chapter.
Decertification
means the rescission by the Secretary of Labor (Secretary) of the year-end certification made under sec. 7 of the Wagner-Peyser Act to the Secretary of the Treasury that the State agency may receive funds authorized by the Wagner-Peyser Act.
Department
means the United States Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units.
Discontinuation of services
means that an employer, agent, farm labor contractor, joint employer, or successor in interest, as defined in this section, cannot participate in or receive any Wagner-Peyser Act employment service provided by the ES to employers pursuant to parts 652 and 653 of this chapter.
Employer
means a person, firm, corporation, or other association or organization which currently has a location within the United States to which U.S. workers may be referred for employment, and which proposes to employ a worker at a place within the United States and which has an employer relationship with respect to employees under this subpart as indicated by the fact that it hires, pays, fires, supervises, and otherwise controls the work of such employees. An association of employers is considered an employer if it has all of the indicia of an employer set forth in this definition. Such an association, however, is considered as a joint employer with the employer member if either shares in exercising one or more of the definitional indicia.
Employment and Training Administration (ETA)
means the component of the Department that administers Federal government job training and worker dislocation programs, Federal grants to States for public ES programs, and unemployment insurance benefits. These services are provided primarily through State and local workforce development systems.
Employment-related laws
means those laws and implementing rules, regulations, and standards that relate to the employment relationship, such as those enforced by the Department's WHD, OSHA, or by other Federal, State, or local agencies.
Employment Service (ES) office
means a site that provides ES services as a one-stop partner program. A site must be colocated in a one-stop center consistent with the requirements of §§ 678.305 through 678.315 of this chapter.
Employment Service (ES) Office Manager
means the ES staff person in charge of ES services provided in a one-stop center.
Employment Service (ES) regulations
means the Federal regulations at this part and parts 652, 653, 654, 658 of this chapter, and 29 CFR part 75.
Employment Service (ES) staff
means individuals who are funded, in whole or in part, by Wagner-Peyser Act funds to carry out activities authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act.
Establishment
means a public or private economic employing unit generally at a single physical location which produces and/or sells goods or services, for example, a mine, factory, store, farm, orchard or ranch. It is usually engaged in one, or predominantly one, type of commercial or governmental activity. Each branch or subsidiary unit of a large employer in a geographical area or community must be considered an individual establishment, except that all such units in the same physical location is considered a single establishment. A component of an establishment which may not be located in the same physical structure (such as the warehouse of a department store) also must be considered as part of the parent establishment. For the purpose of the “seasonal farmworker” definition, farm labor contractors and crew leaders are not considered establishments; it is the organizations to which they supply the workers that are the establishments.
Farm labor contractor
means any person or entity, other than an agricultural employer, an agricultural association, or an employee of an agricultural employer or agricultural association, who, for any money or other valuable consideration paid or promised to be paid, recruits, solicits, hires, employs, furnishes, or transports any migrant or seasonal farmworker (MSFW).
Farmwork
means the cultivation and tillage of the soil, dairying, the production, cultivation, growing, and harvesting of any agricultural or horticultural commodities. This includes the raising of livestock, bees, fur-bearing animals, or poultry, the farming of fish, and any practices (including any forestry or lumbering operations) performed by a farmer or on a farm as an incident to or in conjunction with such farming operations, including preparation for market, delivery to storage or to market or to carriers for transportation to market. It also includes the handling, planting, drying, packing, packaging, processing, freezing, or grading prior to delivery for storage of any agricultural or horticultural commodity in its unmanufactured state. For the purposes of this definition, agricultural commodities means all commodities produced on a farm including crude gum (oleoresin) from a living tree products processed by the original producer of the crude gum (oleoresin) from which they are derived, including gum spirits of turpentine and gum rosin.
Farmwork
also means any service or activity covered under § 655.103(c) of this chapter and/or 29 CFR 500.20(e) and any service or activity so identified through official Department guidance such as a Training and Employment Guidance Letter.
Farmworker
means an individual employed in farmwork, as defined in this section.
Field checks
means unannounced appearances by ES staff and/or other State or Federal staff at agricultural worksites to which ES placements have been made through the intrastate or interstate clearance system to ensure that conditions are as stated on the clearance order and that the employer is not violating an employment-related law.
Field visits
means announced appearances by State Monitor Advocates, Regional Monitor Advocates, the National Monitor Advocate (or National Monitor Advocate staff), or outreach staff to the working, living, and gathering areas of migrant and seasonal farmworkers (MSFWs), to perform the duties described at §§ 653.107(b) (outreach staff), 653.108(o) and (q) (State Monitor Advocates), 658.602(n) (National Monitor Advocates and National Monitor Advocate staff), and 658.603(p) (Regional Monitor Advocates). Monitor Advocates or outreach staff must keep records of each such visit.
Governor
means the chief executive of a State or an outlying area.
Hearing Officer
means a Department Administrative Law Judge, designated to preside at Department administrative hearings.
Individual with a disability
means an individual with a disability as defined in sec. 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).
Interstate clearance order
means an agricultural clearance order for temporary employment (employment on a less than year-round basis) describing one or more hard-to-fill job openings, which an ES office uses to request recruitment assistance from other ES offices in a different State.
Intrastate clearance order
means an agricultural clearance order for temporary employment (employment on a less than year-round basis) describing one or more hard-to-fill job openings, which an ES office uses to request recruitment assistance from all other ES offices within the State.
Job development
means the process of securing a job interview with a public or private employer for a specific participant for whom the ES office has no suitable opening on file.
Job information
means information derived from data compiled in the normal course of ES activities from reports, job orders, applications, and the like.
Job opening
means a single job opportunity for which the ES office has on file a request to select and refer participants.
Job order
means the document containing the material terms and conditions of employment relating to wages, hours, working conditions, worksite and other benefits, submitted by an employer.
Job referral
means:
(1) The act of bringing to the attention of an employer a participant or group of participants who are available for specific job openings or for a potential job; and
(2) The record of such referral. “Job referral” means the same as “referral to a job.”
Labor market area
means an economically integrated geographic area within which individuals can reside and find employment within a reasonable distance or can readily change employment without changing their place of residence. Such an area must be identified in accordance with criteria used by the Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics in defining such areas or similar criteria established by a Governor.
Joint employer
means where two or more employers each have sufficient definitional indicia of being an employer of a worker as defined in this section, they are, at all times, joint employers of that worker. An employer that submits a job order to the ES clearance system as a joint employer, is a joint employer of any worker placed and employed on the job order during the period of employment anticipated, amended, or otherwise extended in accordance with the order.
Local Workforce Development Board
or
Local WDB
means a Local Workforce Development Board established under sec. 107 of WIOA.
Migrant farmworker
means a seasonal farmworker (as defined in this section) who travels to the job site so that the farmworker is not reasonably able to return to their permanent residence within the same day.
MSFW
means a migrant farmworker or a seasonal farmworker.
Non-criteria clearance order
means a clearance order that is not attached to an application for foreign temporary agricultural workers pursuant to part 655, subpart B, of this chapter.
Occupational Information Network (O*NET)
means the online reference database which contains detailed descriptions of U.S. occupations, distinguishing characteristics, classification codes, and information on tasks, knowledge, skills, abilities, and work activities as well as information on interests, work styles, and work values.
One-stop center
means a physical center within the one-stop delivery system, as described in sec. 121(e)(2)(A) of WIOA.
One-stop delivery system
means a one-stop delivery system described in sec. 121(e) of WIOA.
One-stop partner
means an entity described in sec. 121(b) of WIOA and § 678.400 of this chapter that is participating in the operation of a one-stop delivery system.
O*NET-SOC
means the occupational codes and titles used in the O*NET system, based on and grounded in the Standard Occupational Classification (SOC), which are the titles and codes utilized by Federal statistical agencies to classify workers into occupational categories for the purpose of collecting, calculating, and disseminating data. The SOC system is issued by the Office of Management and Budget and the Department is authorized to develop additional detailed O*NET occupations within existing SOC categories. The Department uses O*NET-SOC titles and codes for the purposes of collecting descriptive occupational information and for State reporting of data on training, credential attainment, and
placement in employment by occupation.
Onsite review
means an appearance by the State Monitor Advocate and/or Federal staff at an ES office to monitor the delivery of services and protections afforded by ES regulations to MSFWs by the State Workforce Agency and local ES offices.
Order holding office
means an ES office that has accepted a clearance order from an employer seeking U.S. workers to perform farmwork on a less than year-round basis through the Agricultural Recruitment System.
Outreach contact
means each MSFW that receives the presentation of information, offering of assistance, or follow-up activity from outreach staff.
Outreach staff
means ES staff with the responsibilities described in § 653.107(b) of this chapter. State Monitor Advocates are not considered outreach staff.
Participant
means a reportable individual who has received services other than the services described in § 677.150(a)(3) of this chapter, after satisfying all applicable programmatic requirements for the provision of services, such as eligibility determination. (
See
§ 677.150(a) of this chapter.)
(1) The following individuals are not participants, subject to § 677.150(a)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this chapter:
(i) Individuals who only use the self-service system; and
(ii) Individuals who receive information-only services or activities.
(2) ES participants must be included in the program's performance calculations.
Placement
means the hiring by a public or private employer of an individual referred by the ES office for a job or an interview, provided that the ES office completed all the following steps:
(1) Prepared a job order form prior to referral, except in the case of a job development contact on behalf of a specific participant;
(2) Made prior arrangements with the employer for the referral of an individual or individuals;
(3) Referred an individual who had not been specifically designated by the employer, except for referrals on agricultural job orders for a specific crew leader or worker;
(4) Verified from a reliable source, preferably the employer, that the individual had entered on a job; and
(5) Appropriately recorded the placement.
Public housing
means housing operated by or on behalf of any public agency.
Regional Administrator (RA)
means the chief Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration (ETA) official in each Department regional office.
Reportable individual
means an individual who has taken action that demonstrates an intent to use ES services and who meets specific reporting criteria of the Wagner-Peyser Act (
see
§ 677.150(b) of this chapter), including:
(1) Individuals who provide identifying information;
(2) Individuals who only use the self-service system; or
(3) Individuals who only receive information-only services or activities.
Respondent
means the individual or entity alleged to have committed the violation described in the complaint, such as the employer, service provider, or State agency.
Seasonal farmworker
means an individual who is employed, or was employed in the past 12 months, in farmwork (as defined in this section) of a seasonal or other temporary nature and is not required to be absent overnight from their permanent place of residence. Labor is performed on a seasonal basis where, ordinarily, the employment pertains to or is of the kind exclusively performed at certain seasons or periods of the year and which, from its nature, may not be continuous or carried on throughout the year. Workers who move from one seasonal activity to another, while employed in farmwork, are employed on a seasonal basis even though they may continue to be employed during a major portion of the year. Workers are employed on a temporary basis where they are employed for a limited time only or their performance is contemplated for a particular piece of work, usually of short duration. Generally, employment which is contemplated to continue indefinitely is not temporary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor or the Secretary's designee.
Significant MSFW States
are those States designated by the Department and must include the 20 States with the highest estimated number of MSFWs.
Significant MSFW one-stop centers
are those designated by the Department and include those ES offices where MSFWs account for 10 percent or more of annual participants or reportable individuals in ES and those local ES offices that the OWI Administrator determines must be included due to special circumstances such as an estimated large number of MSFWs in the service area. In no event may the number of significant MSFW one-stop centers be less than 100 centers on a nationwide basis.
Solicitor
means the chief legal officer of the U.S. Department of Labor or the Solicitor's designee.
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA)
means a metropolitan area designated by the Bureau of Census which contains:
(1) At least 1city of 50,000 inhabitants or more; or
(2) Twin cities with a combined population of at least 50,000.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
State Administrator
means the chief official of the SWA.
State agency
or
State Workforce Agency (SWA)
means the State ES agency designated under sec. 4 of the Wagner-Peyser Act.
State hearing official
means a State official designated to preside at State administrative hearings convened to resolve complaints involving ES regulations pursuant to subpart E of part 658 of this chapter.
State Workforce Agency (SWA) official
means an individual employed by the State Workforce Agency or any of its subdivisions.
State Workforce Development Board
or
State WDB
means the entity within a State appointed by the Governor under sec. 101 of WIOA.
Successor in interest
—The following factors, including those as used under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act, may be considered in determining whether an employer, agent, or farm labor contractor is a successor in interest; however, these factors are not exhaustive, and no one factor is dispositive, but all of the circumstances will be considered as a whole:
(1) Substantial continuity of the same business operations;
(2) Use of the same facilities;
(3) Continuity of the work force;
(4) Similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(5) Similarity of supervisory personnel;
(6) Whether the former management or owner retains a direct or indirect interest in the new enterprise;
(7) Similarity in machinery, equipment, and production methods;
(8) Similarity of products and services;
(9) The ability of the predecessor to provide relief; and
(10) For purposes of discontinuation of services, the involvement of the firm's ownership, management, supervisors, and others associated with the firm in the violation(s) at issue.
Supply State(s)
means a State that potentially has U.S. workers who may be recruited for referral through the Agricultural Recruitment System to the area of intended employment in a different State.
Supportive services
means services that are necessary to enable an individual to participate in activities authorized under WIOA or the Wagner-Peyser Act. These services may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Linkages to community services;
(2) Assistance with transportation;
(3) Assistance with child care and dependent care;
(4) Assistance with housing;
(5) Needs-related payments;
(6) Assistance with educational testing;
(7) Reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities;
(8) Referrals to health care;
(9) Assistance with uniforms or other appropriate work attire and work-related tools, including such items as eyeglasses and protective eye gear;
(10) Assistance with books, fees, school supplies, and other necessary items for students enrolled in postsecondary education classes; and
(11) Payments and fees for employment and training-related applications, tests, and certifications.
Tests
means a standardized method of measuring an individual's possession of, interest in, or ability to acquire, job skills and knowledge. Use of tests by one-stop staff must be in accordance with the provisions of:
(1) Title 41 CFR part 60-3, Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures;
(2) Title 29 CFR part 1627, Records To Be Made or Kept Relating to Age; Notices To Be Posted; Administrative Exemptions; and
(3) The Department of Labor's regulations on Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Handicap in Programs and Activities Receiving or Benefiting from Federal Financial Assistance, which have been published as 29 CFR part 32.
Training services
means services described in sec. 134(c)(3) of WIOA.
Unemployment insurance claimant
means a person who files a claim for benefits under any State or Federal unemployment compensation law.
Veteran
means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable, as defined under 38 U.S.C. 101 and sec. 3(63)(A) of WIOA.
Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service (ES) also known as Employment Service (ES)
means the national system of public ES offices described under the Wagner-Peyser Act. ES services are delivered through a nationwide system of one-stop centers, managed by SWAs and the various local offices of the SWAs, and funded by the United States Department of Labor.
Week
means 7 consecutive calendar days.
WIOA
means the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (codified at 29 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
).
Workforce and Labor Market Information (WLMI)
means the body of knowledge that describes the relationship between labor demand and supply. This includes identification and analysis of the socio-economic factors that influence employment, training, and business decisions, such as worker preparation, educational program offerings and related policy decisions within national, State, Substate, and local labor market areas. WLMI includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Employment numbers by occupation and industry;
(2) Unemployment numbers and rates;
(3) Short- and long-term industry and occupational employment projections;
(4) Information on business employment dynamics, including the number and nature of business establishments, and share and location of industrial production;
(5) Local employment dynamics, including business turnover rates; new hires, job separations, net job losses;
(6) Job vacancy counts;
(7) Job seeker and job posting data from the public labor exchange system;
(8) Identification of high growth and high demand industries, occupations, and jobs;
(9) Information on employment and earnings for wage and salary workers and for the self-employed;
(10) Information on work hours, benefits, unionization, trade disputes, conditions of employment, and retirement;
(11) Information on occupation-specific requirements regarding education, training, skills, knowledge, and experience;
WLMI also may include, as either source data or as outputs of analysis of source data:
(12) Population and workforce growth and decline, classified by age, sex, race, and other demographic characteristics;
(13) Identification of emerging occupations and evolving skill demands;
(14) Business skill and hiring requirements;
(15) Workforce characteristics, which may include skills, experience, education, credential attainment, competencies, etc.;
(16) Workforce available in geographic areas;
(17) Information on regional and local economic development activity, including job creation through business start-ups and expansions;
(18) Enrollments in and completers from educational programs, training and registered apprenticeship;
(19) Trends in industrial and occupational restructuring;
(20) Shifts in consumer demands;
(21) Data contained in governmental or administrative reporting including wage records as identified in § 652.301 of this chapter;
(22) Labor market intelligence gained from interaction with businesses, industry or trade associations, education agencies, government entities, and the public; and
(23) Other economic factors.
Workforce and Labor Market Information System (WLMIS)
means the system that collects, analyzes, interprets, and disseminates workforce characteristics and employment-related data, statistics, and information at national, State, and local labor market areas and makes that information available to the public, workforce development system, one-stop partner programs, and the education and economic development communities.
Workforce development activity
means an activity carried out through a workforce development program as defined in sec. 3 of WIOA.
Working days
or
business days
means those days that the order-holding ES office is open for public business, for purposes of the Agricultural Recruitment System.
Work test
means activities designed to ensure that an individual whom a State determines to be eligible for unemployment insurance benefits is able to work, available for work, and actively seeking work in accordance with the State's unemployment compensation law.
[81 FR 56333, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 625, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82723, Nov. 24, 2023; 89 FR 14582, Feb. 28, 2024; 89 FR 34058, Apr. 29, 2024]
Pt. 652

# PART 652—ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONING OF STATE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE

# Subpart A—Employment Service Operations
Sec.
652.1
Introduction.
652.2
Scope and purpose of the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service.
652.3
Public labor exchange services system.
652.4
Allotment of funds and grant agreement.
652.5
Services authorized.
652.6-652.7
[Reserved]
652.8
Administrative provisions.
652.9
Labor disputes.
652.10
Severability.

# Subpart B—Services for Veterans
652.100
Services for veterans.

# Subpart C—Employment Service Services in a One-Stop Delivery System Environment
652.200
What is the purpose of this subpart?
652.201
What is the role of the State Workforce Agency in the one-stop delivery system?
652.202
May local Employment Service offices exist outside of the one-stop delivery system?
652.203
Who is responsible for funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act in the workforce development system?
652.204
Must funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act Governor's Reserve flow through the one-stop delivery system?
652.205
May funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act be used to supplement funding for labor exchange programs authorized under separate legislation?
652.206
May a State use funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act to provide applicable “career services,” as defined in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
652.207
How does a State meet the requirement for universal access to services provided under the Wagner-Peyser Act?
652.208
How are applicable career services related to the methods of service delivery described in this part?
652.209
What are the requirements under the Wagner-Peyser Act for providing reemployment services and other activities to referred unemployment insurance claimants?
652.210
What are the Wagner-Peyser Act's requirements for administration of the work test, including eligibility assessments, as appropriate, and assistance to unemployment insurance claimants?
652.211
What are State planning requirements under the Wagner-Peyser Act?
652.215
What staffing models must be used to deliver services in the Employment Service?
652.216
May the one-stop operator provide guidance to Employment Service staff in accordance with the Wagner-Peyser Act?

# Subpart D—Workforce and Labor Market Information
652.300
What role does the Secretary of Labor have concerning the Workforce and Labor Market Information System?
652.301
What are wage records for purposes of the Wagner-Peyser Act?
652.302
How do the Secretary of Labor's responsibilities described in this part apply to State wage records?
652.303
How do the requirements of part 603 of this chapter apply to wage records?

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. chapter 4B; 38 U.S.C. chapters 41 and 42; Secs. 189 and 503, Public Law 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56337, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Employment Service Operations
§ 652.1
Introduction.
These regulations implement the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act, known hereafter as the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by title III of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), Public Law 113-128. The Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service (ES) is a core program under the WIOA, and an integral component of the one-stop delivery system. Congress intended that the States exercise broad authority in implementing provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act.
§ 652.2
Scope and purpose of the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service.
The basic purpose of the ES is to improve the functioning of the nation's labor markets by bringing together individuals who are seeking employment and employers who are seeking workers.
§ 652.3
Public labor exchange services system.
At a minimum, each State must administer a labor exchange system which has the capacity, to:
(a) Assist job seekers in finding employment, including promoting their familiarity with the Department's electronic tools;
(b) Assist employers in filling jobs;
(c) Facilitate the match between job seekers and employers;
(d) Participate in a system for clearing labor among the States, including the use of standardized classification systems issued by the Secretary, under sec. 15 of the Wagner-Peyser Act;
(e) Meet the work test requirements of the State unemployment compensation system; and
(f) Provide labor exchange services as identified in § 678.430(a) of this chapter, sec. 7(a) of the Wagner-Peyser Act, and sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(iv) of WIOA.
§ 652.4
Allotment of funds and grant agreement.
(a)
Allotments.
The Secretary must provide planning estimates in accordance with sec. 6(b)(5) of the Wagner-Peyser Act. Within 30 days of receipt of planning estimates from the Secretary, the State must make public the sub-State resource distributions, and describe the process and schedule under which these resources will be issued, planned, and committed. This notification must include a description of the procedures by which the public may review and comment on the sub-State distributions, including a process by which the State will resolve any complaints.
(b)
Grant agreement.
To establish a continuing relationship under the Wagner-Peyser Act, the Governor and the Secretary must sign a grant agreement, including a statement assuring that the State must comply with the Wagner-Peyser Act and all applicable rules and regulations. Consistent with this agreement and sec. 6 of the Wagner-Peyser Act, State allotments will be obligated through a notification of obligation.
§ 652.5
Services authorized.
The funds allotted to each State under sec. 6 of the Wagner-Peyser Act must be expended consistent with an approved plan under §§ 676.100 through 676.145 of this chapter and § 652.211. At a minimum, each State must provide the minimum labor exchange elements listed at § 652.3.
§§ 652.6-652.7
[Reserved]
§ 652.8
Administrative provisions.
(a)
Administrative requirements.
The Employment Security Manual is not
applicable to funds appropriated under the Wagner-Peyser Act. Except as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section, administrative requirements and cost principles applicable to grants under this part are as specified in 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900 which govern the Uniform Guidelines, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.
(b)
Management systems, reporting, and recordkeeping.
(1) The State must ensure that a financial system provides fiscal control and accounting procedures sufficient to permit preparation of required reports, and the tracing of funds to a level of expenditure adequate to establish that funds have not been expended in violation of the restrictions on the use of such funds. (sec. 10(a) of the Wagner-Peyser Act)
(2) The financial management system and the program information system must provide Federally-required records and reports that are uniform in definition, accessible to authorized Federal and State staff, and verifiable for monitoring, reporting, audit and evaluation purposes. (sec. 10(c) of the Wagner-Peyser Act)
(c)
Reports required.
(1) Each State must make reports pursuant to instructions issued by the Secretary and in such format as the Secretary prescribes.
(2) The Secretary is authorized to monitor and investigate pursuant to sec. 10 of the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(d)
Special administrative and cost provisions.
(1) Neither the Department nor the State is a guarantor of the accuracy or truthfulness of information obtained from employers or applicants in the process of operating a labor exchange activity.
(2) Prior approval authority—as described in various sections of 29 CFR part 97, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments, and Office of Management and Budget Circular A-87 (Revised)—is delegated to the State except that the Secretary reserves the right to require transfer of title on nonexpendable Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE), in accordance with provisions contained in 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900. The Secretary reserves the right to exercise prior approval authority in other areas, after providing advance notice to the State.
(3) Application for financial assistance and modification requirements must be as specified under this part.
(4) Cost of promotional and informational activities consistent with the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act, describing services offered by employment security agencies, job openings, labor market information, and similar items are allowable.
(5) Each State must retain basic documents for the minimum period specified below, consistent with 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900:
(i) Work application: 3 years.
(ii) Job order: 3 years.
(6) Payments from the State's Wagner-Peyser Act allotment made into a State's account in the Unemployment Trust Fund for the purpose of reducing charges against Reed Act funds (sec. 903(c) of the Social Security Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1103(c)) are allowable costs, provided that:
(i) The charges against Reed Act funds were for amounts appropriated, obligated, and expended for the acquisition of automatic data processing installations or for the acquisition or major renovation of State-owned office building; and
(ii) With respect to each acquisition of improvement of property pursuant to paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section, the payments are accounted for in the State's records as credits against equivalent amounts of Reed Act funds used for administrative expenditures.
(e)
Disclosure of information.
(1) The State must assure the proper disclosure of information pursuant to sec. 3(b) of the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(2) The information specified in sec. 3(b) and other sections of the Wagner-Peyser Act, also must be provided to officers or any employee of the Federal government or of a State government lawfully charged with administration of unemployment compensation laws, ES activities under the Wagner-Peyser Act or other related legislation, but only for purposes reasonably necessary for the proper administration of such laws.
(f)
Audits.
(1) The State must follow the audit requirements found at
§ 683.210 of this chapter, except that funds expended pursuant to sec. 7(b) of the Wagner-Peyser Act must be audited annually.
(2) The Comptroller General and the Inspector General of the Department have the authority to conduct audits, evaluations or investigations necessary to meet their responsibilities under sec. 9(b)(1) and 9(b)(2), respectively, of the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(3) The audit, conducted pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section, must be submitted to the Secretary who will follow the resolution process specified in §§ 683.420 through 683.440 of this chapter.
(g)
Sanctions for violation of the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(1) The Secretary may impose appropriate sanctions and corrective actions for violation of the Wagner-Peyser Act, regulations, or State Plan, including the following:
(i) Requiring repayment, for debts owed the government under the grant, from non-Federal funds;
(ii) Offsetting debts arising from the misexpenditure of grant funds, against amounts to which the State is or may be entitled under the Wagner-Peyser Act, provided that debts arising from gross negligence or willful misuse of funds may not be offset against future grants. When the Secretary reduces amounts allotted to the State by the amount of the misexpenditure, the debt must be fully satisfied;
(iii) Determining the amount of Federal cash maintained by the State or a subrecipient in excess of reasonable grant needs, establishing a debt for the amount of such excessive cash, and charging interest on that debt; and
(iv) Imposing other appropriate sanctions or corrective actions, except where specifically prohibited by the Wagner-Peyser Act or regulations.
(2) To impose a sanction or corrective action, the Secretary must utilize the initial and final determination procedures outlined in paragraph (f)(3) of this section and specified in the administrative provisions at §§ 683.420 through 683.440 of this chapter.
(h)
Other violations.
Violations or alleged violations of the Wagner-Peyser Act, regulations, or grant terms and conditions except those pertaining to audits or discrimination must be determined and processed in accordance with part 658, subpart H, of this chapter.
(i)
Fraud and abuse.
Any persons having knowledge of fraud, criminal activity or other abuse must report such information directly and immediately to the Secretary, including all complaints involving such matters.
(j)
Nondiscrimination requirements.
States must:
(1) Assure that no individual be excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, subjected to discrimination under, or denied employment in the administration or in connection with any services or activities authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act in violation of any applicable nondiscrimination law. All complaints alleging discrimination must be filed and processed according to the procedures in the applicable Department of Labor nondiscrimination regulations.
(2) Assure that discriminatory job orders will not be accepted, except where the stated requirement is a bona fide occupational qualification (BFOQ).
See generally
42 U.S.C. 2000e-2(e) and 29 CFR parts 1604, 1605, 1606, and 1625.
(3) Assure that ES offices are in compliance with the veteran referral and job listing requirements at 41 CFR 60-300.84.
(4) Assure that employment testing programs will comply with 41 CFR part 60-3 and 29 CFR part 32 and 29 CFR 1627.3(b)(1)(iv).
(5) Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements and procedures, including complaint processing and compliance reviews, will be governed by the applicable Department of Labor nondiscrimination regulations.
[81 FR 56337, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82725, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 652.9
Labor disputes.
(a) State agencies may not make a job referral on job orders which will aid directly or indirectly in the filling of a job opening which is vacant because the former occupant is on strike, or is being locked out in the course of a labor dispute, or the filling of which is otherwise an issue in a labor dispute involving a work stoppage.
(b) Written notification must be provided to all applicants referred to jobs
not at issue in the labor dispute that a labor dispute exists in the employing establishment and that the job to which the applicant is being referred is not at issue in the dispute.
(c) When a job order is received from an employer reportedly involved in a labor dispute involving a work stoppage, State agencies must:
(1) Verify the existence of the labor dispute and determine its significance with respect to each vacancy involved in the job order; and
(2) Notify all potentially affected staff concerning the labor dispute.
(d) State agencies must resume full referral services when they have been notified of, and verified with the employer and workers' representative(s), that the labor dispute has been terminated.
(e) State agencies must notify the regional office in writing of the existence of labor disputes which:
(1) Result in a work stoppage at an establishment involving a significant number of workers; or
(2) Involve multi-establishment employers with other establishments outside the reporting State.
§ 652.10
Severability.
Should a court hold any portion of any provision of this part to be invalid, the provision will be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding is one of total invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision or subprovision will be severable from this part and will not affect the remainder thereof.
[88 FR 82725, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Subpart B—Services for Veterans
§ 652.100
Services for veterans.
Veterans receive priority of service for all Department-funded employment and training programs as described in 20 CFR part 1010. The Department's Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS) administers the Jobs for Veterans State Grants (JVSG) program under chapter 41 of title 38 of the U.S. Code and other activities and training programs which provide services to specific populations of eligible veterans. VETS' general regulations are located in parts 1001, 1002, and 1010 of this title.

# Subpart C—Employment Service Services in a One-Stop Delivery System Environment
§ 652.200
What is the purpose of this subpart?
(a) This subpart provides guidance to States to implement the services provided under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA, in a one-stop delivery system environment.
(b) Except as otherwise provided, the definitions contained in part 651 of this chapter and sec. 2 of the Wagner-Peyser Act apply to this subpart.
§ 652.201
What is the role of the State Workforce Agency in the one-stop delivery system?
(a) The role of the State Workforce Agency (SWA) in the one-stop delivery system is to ensure the delivery of services authorized under sec. 7(a) of the Wagner-Peyser Act. The SWA is a required one-stop partner in each local one-stop delivery system and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners that are described at part 678 of this chapter.
(b) Consistent with those provisions, the State agency must:
(1) Participate in the one-stop delivery system in accordance with sec. 7(e) of the Wagner-Peyser Act;
(2) Be represented on the Workforce Development Boards (WDBs) that oversee the local and State one-stop delivery system and be a party to the Memorandum of Understanding, described at § 678.500 of this chapter, addressing the operation of the one-stop delivery system; and
(3) Provide these services as part of the one-stop delivery system.
§ 652.202
May local Employment Service offices exist outside of the one-stop delivery system?
No. Local ES offices may not exist outside of the one-stop service delivery system. A State must colocate ES, as provided in §§ 678.310 through 678.315 of this chapter.
§ 652.203
Who is responsible for funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act in the workforce development system?
The SWA retains responsibility for all funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, including those funds authorized under sec. 7(a) required for providing the services and activities delivered as part of the one-stop delivery system.
§ 652.204
Must funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act Governor's Reserve flow through the one-stop delivery system?
No, sec. 7(b) of the Wagner-Peyser Act provides that 10 percent of the State's allotment under the Wagner-Peyser Act is reserved for use by the Governor for performance incentives, supporting exemplary models of service delivery, professional development and career advancement of SWA officials as applicable, and services for groups with special needs. However, these funds may flow through the one-stop delivery system.
[81 FR 56337, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 626, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82725, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 652.205
May funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act be used to supplement funding for labor exchange programs authorized under separate legislation?
(a) Section 7(c) of the Wagner-Peyser Act enables States to use funds authorized under sec. 7(a) or 7(b) of the Wagner-Peyser Act to supplement funding of any workforce activity carried out under WIOA.
(b) Funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act may be used under sec. 7(c) to provide additional funding to other activities authorized under WIOA if:
(1) The activity meets the requirements of the Wagner-Peyser Act, and its own requirements;
(2) The activity serves the same individuals as are served under the Wagner-Peyser Act;
(3) The activity provides services that are coordinated with ES services; and
(4) The funds supplement, rather than supplant, funds provided from non-Federal sources.
[81 FR 56337, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82725, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 652.206
May a State use funds authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act to provide applicable “career services,” as defined in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
Yes, funds authorized under sec. 7(a) of the Wagner-Peyser Act must be used to provide basic career services as identified in § 678.430(a) of this chapter and secs. 134(c)(2)(A)(i)-(xi) of WIOA, and may be used to provide individualized career services as identified in § 678.430(b) of this chapter and sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(xii) of WIOA. Funds authorized under sec. 7(b) of the Wagner-Peyser Act may be used to provide career services. Career services must be provided consistent with the requirements of the Wagner-Peyser Act.
§ 652.207
How does a State meet the requirement for universal access to Employment Service services?
(a) A State has discretion in how it meets the requirement for universal access to ES services. In exercising this discretion, a State must meet the Wagner-Peyser Act's requirements.
(b) These requirements are:
(1) Labor exchange services must be available to all employers and job seekers, including unemployment insurance (UI) claimants, veterans, migrant and seasonal farmworkers, and individuals with disabilities;
(2) The State must have the capacity to deliver labor exchange services to employers and job seekers, as described in the Wagner-Peyser Act, on a statewide basis through:
(i) Self-service, including virtual services;
(ii) Facilitated self-help service; and
(iii) Staff-assisted service;
(3) In each local area, in at least one comprehensive physical center, ES staff must provide labor exchange services (including staff-assisted labor exchange services) and career services as described in § 652.206; and
(4) Those labor exchange services provided under the Wagner-Peyser Act in a local area must be described in the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) described in § 678.500 of this chapter.
[81 FR 56337, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 626, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82726, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 652.208
How are applicable career services related to the methods of service delivery described in in this part?
Career services may be delivered through any of the applicable three methods of service delivery described in § 652.207(b)(2). These methods are:
(a) Self-service, including virtual services;
(b) Facilitated self-help service; and
(c) Staff-assisted service.
§ 652.209
What are the requirements under the Wagner-Peyser Act for providing reemployment services and other activities to referred unemployment insurance claimants?
(a) In accordance with sec. 3(c)(3) of the Wagner-Peyser Act, the SWA, as part of the one-stop delivery system, must provide reemployment services to UI claimants for whom such services are required as a condition for receipt of UI benefits. Services must be appropriate to the needs of UI claimants who are referred to reemployment services under any Federal or State UI law.
(b) The SWA also must provide other activities, including:
(1) Coordination of labor exchange services with the provision of UI eligibility services as required by sec. 5(b)(2) of the Wagner-Peyser Act;
(2) Administration of the work test, conducting eligibility assessments, and registering UI claimants for employment services in accordance with a State's unemployment compensation law, and provision of job finding and placement services as required by sec. 3(c)(3) and described in sec. 7(a)(3)(F) of the Wagner-Peyser Act; and
(3) Referring UI claimants to, and providing application assistance for, training and education resources and programs, including Federal Pell grants and other student assistance under title IV of the Higher Education Act, the Montgomery GI Bill, Post-9/11 GI Bill, and other Veterans Educational Assistance, training provided for youth, and adult and dislocated workers, as well as other employment training programs under WIOA, and for Vocational Rehabilitation Services under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
§ 652.210
What are the Wagner-Peyser Act's requirements for administration of the work test, including eligibility assessments, as appropriate, and assistance to unemployment insurance claimants?
(a) State UI law or rules establish the requirements under which UI claimants must register and search for work in order to fulfill the UI work test requirements.
(b) ES staff must assure that:
(1) UI claimants receive the full range of labor exchange services available under the Wagner-Peyser Act that are necessary and appropriate to facilitate their earliest return to work, including career services specified in § 652.206 and listed in sec. 134(c)(2)A) of WIOA;
(2) UI claimants requiring assistance in seeking work receive the necessary guidance and counseling to ensure they make a meaningful and realistic work search; and
(3) ES staff will provide UI program staff with information about UI claimants' ability or availability for work, or the suitability of work offered to them.
[81 FR 56337, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 626, Jan. 6, 2020]
§ 652.211
What are State planning requirements under the Wagner-Peyser Act?
The ES is a core program identified in WIOA and must be included as part of each State's Unified or Combined State Plans. See §§ 676.105 through 676.125 of this chapter for planning requirements for the core programs.
§ 652.215
What staffing models must be used to deliver services in the Employment Service?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary requires that States deliver the labor exchange services described in § 652.3 using State merit-staff employees employed according to the merit-system principles described in 5 CFR part 900, subpart F—Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration. This
requirement also applies to the provision of services and activities under parts 653 and 658 of this chapter.
(b) States authorized prior to February 5, 2020, to use a staffing model other than that described in paragraph (a) of this section to deliver ES services may use the staffing model consistent with the model previously authorized for the State. These States may use merit-staffing flexibility only to the same extent that the Department had authorized it prior to February 5, 2020.
(c) States using staffing models under paragraph (b) of this section are required to participate in evaluations of their delivery of ES services conducted by the Department.
(d) All States must comply with the requirements in this section no later than January 22, 2026.
[88 FR 82726, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 652.216
May the one-stop operator provide guidance to Employment Service staff in accordance with the Wagner-Peyser Act?
(a) Yes, the one-stop delivery system envisions a partnership in which Wagner-Peyser Act labor exchange services are coordinated with other activities provided by other partners in a one-stop setting. As part of the local MOU described in § 678.500 of this chapter, the SWA, as a one-stop partner, may agree to have ES staff receive guidance from the one-stop operator regarding the provision of labor exchange services.
(b) The guidance given to ES staff must be consistent with the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act, the local MOU, and applicable collective bargaining agreements.
[85 FR 626, Jan. 6, 2020]

# Subpart D—Workforce and Labor Market Information
§ 652.300
What role does the Secretary of Labor have concerning the Workforce and Labor Market Information System?
(a) The Secretary of Labor must oversee the development, maintenance, and continuous improvement of the workforce and labor market information system defined in Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15 and § 651.10 of this chapter. The Department also will identify parameters of continuous improvement. The Secretary will consult with the Workforce Information Advisory Council on these matters and consider the council's recommendations.
(b) With respect to data collection, analysis, and dissemination of workforce and labor market information as defined in Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15 and § 651.10 of this chapter, the Secretary must:
(1) Assign responsibilities within the Department of Labor for elements of the workforce and labor market information system described in sec. 15(a) of the Wagner-Peyser Act to ensure that the statistical and administrative data collected are consistent with appropriate Bureau of Labor Statistics standards and definitions, and that the information is accessible and understandable to users of such data;
(2) Actively seek the cooperation of heads of other Federal agencies to establish and maintain mechanisms for ensuring complementarity and non-duplication in the development and operation of statistical and administrative data collection activities;
(3) Solicit, receive, and evaluate the recommendations of the Workforce Information Advisory Council established by Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15(d);
(4) Eliminate gaps and duplication in statistical undertakings;
(5) Through the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Employment and Training Administration, and in collaboration with States, develop and maintain the elements of the workforce and labor market information system, including the development of consistent procedures and definitions for use by States in collecting and reporting the workforce and labor market information data described in Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15 and defined in § 651.10 of this chapter;
(6) Establish procedures for the system to ensure that the data and information are timely, and paperwork and reporting for the system are reduced to a minimum; and
(7) Prepare a 2-year plan for the workforce and labor market information system, as described in the Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15(c), as amended by WIOA sec. 308(d).
§ 652.301
What are wage records for purposes of the Wagner-Peyser Act?
Wage records, for purposes of the Wagner-Peyser Act, are records that contain “wage information” as defined in § 603.2(k) of this chapter. In this part, “State wage records” refers to wage records produced or maintained by a State.
§ 652.302
How do the Secretary of Labor's responsibilities described in this part apply to State wage records?
(a) A significant portion of the workforce and labor market information—defined in § 651.10 of this chapter—are developed using State wage records.
(b) Based on the Secretary of Labor's responsibilities described in Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15 and § 652.300, the Secretary of Labor will, in consultation with Federal agencies, and States, and considering recommendations from the Workforce Information Advisory Council described in Wagner-Peyser Act sec. 15(d), develop:
(1) Standardized definitions for the data elements comprising “wage records” as defined in § 652.301; and
(2) Improved processes and systems for the collection and reporting of wage records.
(c) In carrying out these activities, the Secretary also may consult with other stakeholders, such as employers.
§ 652.303
How do the requirements of part 603 of this chapter apply to wage records?
All information collected by the State in wage records referred to in § 652.302 is subject to the confidentiality regulations at part 603 of this chapter.
Pt. 653

# PART 653—SERVICES OF THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Services for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers (MSFWs)
Sec.
653.100
Purpose and scope of subpart.
653.101
Provision of services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers.
653.102
Job information.
653.103
Process for migrant and seasonal farmworkers to participate in workforce development activities.
653.104-653.106
[Reserved]
653.107
Outreach and Agricultural Outreach Plan.
653.108
State Workforce Agency and State Monitor Advocate responsibilities.
653.109
Data collection and performance accountability measures.
653.110
Disclosure of data.
653.111
State Workforce Agency staffing requirements for significant MSFW one-stop centers.
Subparts C-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Agricultural Recruitment System for U.S. Workers (ARS)
653.500
Purpose and scope of subpart.
653.501
Requirements for processing clearance orders.
653.502
Conditional access to the Agricultural Recruitment System.
653.503
Field checks.
653.504
Severability.

# Authority:
Secs. 167, 189, 503, Public Law 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014); 29 U.S.C. chapter 4B; 38 U.S.C. part III, chapters 41 and 42.

# Source:
81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Services for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers (MSFWs)
§ 653.100
Purpose and scope of subpart.
(a) This subpart sets forth the principal regulations of the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service (ES) concerning the provision of services for MSFWs consistent with the requirement that all services of the workforce development system be available to all job seekers in an equitable and nondiscriminatory fashion. This includes ensuring MSFWs have access to these services in a way that meets their unique needs. MSFWs must receive
services on a basis which is qualitatively equivalent and quantitatively proportionate to services provided to non-MSFWs.
(b) This subpart contains requirements that State Workforce Agencies (SWAs) establish a system to monitor their own compliance with ES regulations governing services to MSFWs.
(c) Established under this subpart are special services to ensure MSFWs receive the full range of career services as defined in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2).
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82726, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.101
Provision of services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers.
SWAs must ensure that ES staff at one-stop centers offer MSFWs the full range of career and supportive services, benefits and protections, and job and training referral services as are provided to non-MSFWs. SWAs must ensure ES staff at the one-stop centers tailor such ES services in a way that accounts for individual MSFW preferences, needs, skills, and the availability of job and training opportunities, so that MSFWs are reasonably able to participate in the ES.
[88 FR 82726, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.102
Job information.
All SWAs must make job order information conspicuous and available to MSFWs by all reasonable means. Such information must, at minimum, be available through internet labor exchange systems and through the one-stop centers. SWAs must ensure ES staff at one-stop centers provide assistance to MSFWs to access job order information easily and efficiently.
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 626, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82726, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.103
Process for migrant and seasonal farmworkers to participate in workforce development activities.
(a) Each ES office must determine whether participants and reportable individuals are MSFWs as defined at § 651.10 of this chapter.
(b) SWAs must comply with the language access and assistance requirements at 29 CFR 38.9 with regard to all individuals with limited English proficiency (LEP), including MSFWs who are limited English proficient individuals, as defined at 29 CFR 38.4(hh). This includes ensuring ES staff comply with these language access and assistance requirements.
(c) One-stop centers must provide MSFWs a list of available career and supportive services.
(d) One-stop centers must refer and/or register MSFWs for services, as appropriate, if the MSFW is interested in obtaining such services.
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 626, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82726, Nov. 24, 2023]
§§ 653.104-653.106
[Reserved]
§ 653.107
Outreach and Agricultural Outreach Plan.
(a)
State Workforce Agency (SWA) outreach responsibilities.
(1) Each SWA must ensure outreach staff conduct outreach as described in paragraph (b) of this section on an ongoing basis. State Administrators must ensure State Monitor Advocates (SMAs) and outreach staff coordinate activities with WIOA title I sec. 167 grantees as well as with public and private community service agencies and MSFW groups. WIOA title I sec. 167 grantees' activities involving MSFWs does not substitute for SWA outreach responsibilities.
(2) As part of their outreach, SWAs must ensure outreach staff:
(i) Communicate the full range of workforce development services to MSFWs; and
(ii) Conduct thorough outreach efforts with extensive follow-up activities identified at paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(3) When hiring or assigning outreach staff, SWAs must ensure hiring officials:
(i) Seek and put a strong emphasis on hiring and assigning qualified candidates who speak the language of a significant proportion of the State MSFW population; and
(A) Who are from MSFW backgrounds; or
(B) Who have substantial work experience in farmworker activities.
(ii) Inform farmworker organizations and other organizations with expertise concerning MSFWs of job openings and
encourage them to refer qualified applicants to apply.
(4) Each SWA must ensure that there are an adequate number of outreach staff employed in the State to conduct MSFW outreach in each service area of the State and to contact a majority of MSFWs in the State annually. In the 20 States with the highest estimated year-round MSFW activity, as identified by the Department, there must be full-time, year-round outreach staff to conduct outreach duties. Full-time means each individual outreach staff person must spend 100 percent of their time on the outreach responsibilities described in paragraph (b) of this section. For the remainder of the States, there must be year-round part-time outreach staff, and during periods of the highest MSFW activity, there must be full-time outreach staff. These staffing levels must align with and be supported by information about the estimated number of farmworkers in the State and the farmworker activity in the State as demonstrated in the State's Agricultural Outreach Plan (AOP) pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. All outreach staff must be multilingual, if warranted by the characteristics of the MSFW population in the State, and must spend a majority of their time in the field.
(5) The SWA must publicize the availability of ES services through such means as newspaper and electronic media publicity. Contacts with public and private community agencies, employers and/or employer organizations, and MSFW groups also must be utilized to facilitate the widest possible distribution of information concerning employment services.
(6) SWAs must ensure each outreach staff member is provided with an identification card or other materials identifying them as representatives of the State.
(b)
Outreach staff responsibilities.
Outreach staff must locate and contact MSFWs who are not being reached by the normal intake activities conducted by the ES offices. Outreach staff responsibilities include the activities identified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (11) of this section.
(1) Outreach staff must explain to MSFWs at their working, living, or gathering areas (including day-haul sites), by means of written and oral presentations either spontaneous or recorded, the following:
(i) The services available at the local one-stop center (which includes the availability of referrals to training, supportive services, and career services, as well as specific employment opportunities), and other related services;
(ii) Information on the Employment Service and Employment-related Law Complaint System;
(iii) Information on the other organizations serving MSFWs in the area; and
(iv) A basic summary of farmworker rights, including farmworker rights with respect to the terms and conditions of employment.
(2) Outreach staff must not enter work areas to perform outreach duties described in this section on an employer's property without permission of the employer unless otherwise authorized to enter by law; must not enter workers' living areas without the permission of the workers; and must comply with appropriate State laws regarding access.
(3) After making the presentation, outreach staff must urge the MSFWs to go to the local one-stop center to obtain the full range of employment and training services.
(4) If an MSFW cannot or does not wish to visit the local one-stop center, outreach staff must offer to provide on-site the following:
(i) Assistance in the preparation of applications for ES services;
(ii) Assistance in obtaining referral(s) to current and future employment opportunities;
(iii) Assistance in the preparation of either ES or employment-related law complaints;
(iv) Referral of complaints to the ES office Complaint System Representative or ES Office Manager;
(v) Referral to supportive services and/or career services in which the individual or a family member may be interested; and
(vi) As needed, assistance in making appointments and arranging transportation for individual MSFW(s) or members of their family to and from local one-stop centers or other appropriate agencies.
(5) Outreach staff must make follow-up contacts as necessary and appropriate to provide the assistance specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(6) Outreach staff must be alert to observe the working and living conditions of MSFWs and if an outreach staff member observes or receives information about apparent violations, the outreach staff member must document and refer the information to the appropriate ES Office Manager (as described in § 658.419 of this chapter).
(7) Outreach staff must be trained in one-stop center procedures and in the services, benefits, and protections afforded MSFWs by the ES, including training on protecting farmworkers against sexual harassment, sexual coercion, assault, and human trafficking. Such trainings are intended to help outreach staff identify when such issues may be occurring in the fields and how to document and refer the cases to the appropriate enforcement agencies. Outreach staff also must be trained in the Complaint System procedures at part 658, subpart E, of this chapter and be aware of the local, State, regional, and national enforcement agencies that would be appropriate to receive referrals. The program for such training must be formulated by the State Administrator, pursuant to uniform guidelines developed by ETA. The SMA must be given an opportunity to review and comment on the State's program.
(8) Outreach staff must maintain complete records of their contacts with MSFWs and the services they perform. These records must include a daily log, a copy of which must be sent monthly to the ES Office Manager and maintained on file for at least 3 years. These records must include the number of contacts, the names of contacts (if available), and the services provided (e.g., whether a complaint was received and if the complaint or apparent violation was resolved informally or referred to the appropriate enforcement agency, and whether a request for career services was received). Outreach staff also must maintain records of each possible violation or complaint of which they have knowledge, and their actions in ascertaining the facts and referring the matters as provided herein. These records must include a description of the circumstances and names of any employers who have refused outreach staff access to MSFWs pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(9) Outreach staff must not engage in political, unionization, or anti-unionization activities during the performance of their duties.
(10) Outreach staff must be provided with, carry, and display, upon request, identification cards or other material identifying them as representatives of the State.
(11) Outreach staff in significant MSFW one-stop centers must conduct especially vigorous outreach in their service areas. Outreach activities must align with and be supported by information provided in the State's AOP pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
ES office outreach responsibilities.
Each ES Office Manager must file with the SMA a monthly summary report of outreach efforts. These reports must summarize information collected, pursuant to paragraph (b)(8) of this section. The ES Office Manager and/or other appropriate staff must assess the performance of outreach staff by examining the overall quality and productivity of their work, including the services provided and the methods and tools used to offer services. Performance must not be judged solely by the number of contacts made by the outreach staff. The monthly reports and daily outreach logs must be made available to the SMA and Federal onsite review teams.
(d)
State Agricultural Outreach Plan (AOP).
(1) Each SWA must develop an AOP every 4 years as part of the Unified or Combined State Plans required under sec. 102 or 103 of WIOA.
(2) The AOP must:
(i) Provide an assessment of the unique needs of MSFWs in the area based on past and projected agricultural and MSFW activity in the State;
(ii) Explain the materials, tools, and resources the State will use for outreach;
(iii) Describe the SWA's proposed outreach activities to contact MSFWs
who are not being reached by the normal intake activities conducted by the one-stop centers. The description must identify the number of full-time and part-time outreach staff positions in the State and must demonstrate that there are sufficient outreach staff to conduct MSFW outreach in each service area of the State to contact a majority of MSFWs in the State annually;
(iv) Describe the activities planned for providing the full range of ES services to the agricultural community, including both MSFWs and agricultural employers, through the one-stop centers; and
(v) Include a description of how the SWA intends to provide ES staff in significant MSFW one-stop centers in accordance with § 653.111.
(3) In developing the AOP, the SWA must solicit information and suggestions from WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) grantees, other appropriate MSFW groups, public agencies, agricultural employer organizations, and other interested organizations. In addition, at least 45 calendar days before submitting its final AOP to the Department, the SWA must provide the proposed AOP to NFJP grantees, public agencies, agricultural employer organizations, and other organizations expressing an interest and allow at least 30 calendar days for review and comment. The SWA must:
(i) Consider any comments received in formulating its final proposed AOP.
(ii) Inform all commenting parties in writing whether their comments have been incorporated and, if not, the reasons therefore.
(iii) Transmit the comments and recommendations received and its responses to the Department with the submission of the AOP. (If the comments are received after the submission of the AOP, they may be sent separately to the Department.)
(4) The AOP must be submitted in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section and planning guidance issued by the Department.
(5) The Annual Summaries required at § 653.108(u) must update the Department on the SWA's progress toward meeting the objectives set forth in the AOP.
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 626, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82726, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.108
State Workforce Agency and State Monitor Advocate responsibilities.
(a) State Administrators must ensure their SWAs monitor their own compliance with ES regulations in serving MSFWs on an ongoing basis. The State Administrator has overall responsibility for SWA self-monitoring. The State Administrator and ES staff must not retaliate against staff, including the SMA, for self-monitoring or raising any issues or concerns regarding noncompliance with the ES regulations.
(b) The State Administrator must appoint an SMA who must be a SWA official. The State Administrator must inform farmworker organizations and other organizations with expertise concerning MSFWs of the opening and encourage them to refer qualified applicants to apply. Among qualified candidates, the SWAs must seek and put a strong emphasis on hiring persons:
(1) Who are from MSFW backgrounds; or
(2) Who speak the language of a significant proportion of the State MSFW population; or
(3) Who have substantial work experience in farmworker activities.
(c) The SMA must be an individual who:
(1) Is a senior-level ES staff employee;
(2) Reports directly to the State Administrator or State Administrator's designee, such as a director or other appropriately titled official in the State Administrator's office, who has the authority to act on behalf of the State Administrator, except that if a designee is selected, they must not be the individual who has direct program oversight of the ES; and
(3) Has the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to fulfill the responsibilities as described in this subpart.
(d) The SMA must have sufficient authority, staff, resources, and access to top management to monitor compliance with the ES regulations. Staff assigned to the SMA are intended to help the SMA carry out the duties set forth
in this section and must not perform work that conflicts with any of the SMA's duties, such as outreach responsibilities required by § 653.107, ARS processing under subpart F of this part, and complaint processing under subpart E of part 658. The number of ES staff positions assigned to the SMA must be determined by reference to the number of MSFWs in the State, (as measured at the time of the peak MSFW population), and the need for monitoring activity in the State.
(e) The SMA must devote full-time staffing to the SMA functions described in this section. No State may dedicate less than full-time staffing for the SMA position, unless the Regional Administrator, with input from the Regional Monitor Advocate, provides written approval. Any State that proposes less than full-time dedication must demonstrate to the Regional Administrator and Regional Monitor Advocate that all SMA functions can be effectively performed with part-time staffing. The SMA must not perform work that conflicts with any of the SMA's duties, such as outreach responsibilities required by § 653.107, ARS processing under subpart F of this part, and complaint processing under subpart E of part 658.
(f) All SMAs and their staff must attend training session(s) offered by the Regional Monitor Advocate(s) and National Monitor Advocate and their staff and those necessary to maintain competency and enhance the SMA's understanding of the unique needs of farmworkers. Such trainings must include those identified by the SMA's Regional Monitor Advocate and may include those offered by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department's Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Immigrant and Employee Rights Section of the Department of Justice's Civil Rights Division, the Department's Civil Rights Center, and other organizations offering farmworker-related information.
(g) The SMA must provide any relevant documentation requested from the SWA by the Regional Monitor Advocate or the National Monitor Advocate.
(h) The SMA must:
(1) Conduct an ongoing review of the delivery of services and protections afforded by the ES regulations to MSFWs by the SWA and ES offices. This includes:
(i) Monitoring compliance with § 653.111;
(ii) Monitoring the ES services that the SWA and one-stop centers provide to MSFWs to assess whether they are qualitatively equivalent and quantitatively proportionate to the services that the SWA and one-stop centers provide to non-MSFWs; and
(iii) Reviewing the appropriateness of informal resolution of complaints and apparent violations as documented in the complaint logs.
(2) Without delay, must advise the SWA and ES offices of problems, deficiencies, or improper practices in the delivery of services and protections afforded by these regulations and, if warranted, specify the corrective action(s) necessary to address these deficiencies. When the SMA finds corrective action(s) necessary, the ES Office Manager or other appropriate ES staff must develop a corrective action plan in accordance with the requirements identified at paragraph (h)(3)(v) of this section. The SMA also must advise the SWA on means to improve the delivery of services.
(3) Participate in on-site reviews of one-stop centers on a regular basis (regardless of whether or not they are designated significant MSFW one-stop centers) using the procedures set forth in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Before beginning an onsite review, the SMA or review staff must study:
(A) Program performance data;
(B) Reports of previous reviews;
(C) Corrective action plans developed as a result of previous reviews;
(D) Complaint logs, as required by the regulations under part 658 of this chapter, including logs documenting the informal resolution of complaints and apparent violations; and
(E) Complaints elevated from the office or concerning the office.
(ii) The SMA must ensure that the onsite review format, developed by ETA, is used as a guideline for onsite reviews.
(iii) Upon completion of an onsite monitoring review, the SMA must hold one or more wrap-up sessions with the ES Office Manager and staff to discuss any findings and offer initial recommendations and appropriate technical assistance.
(iv) After each review, the SMA must conduct an in-depth analysis of the review data. The conclusions, including findings and areas of concern and recommendations of the SMA, must be put in writing and must be sent directly to the State Administrator, to the official of the SWA with authority over the ES office, and other appropriate SWA officials.
(v) If the review results in any findings of noncompliance with the regulations under this chapter, the SMA's report must include the necessary corrective action(s). To resolve the findings, the ES Office Manager or other appropriate ES staff must develop and propose a written corrective action plan. The plan must be approved or revised by SWA officials and the SMA. The plan must include the actions required to correct any compliance issues within 30 business days or, if the plan allows for more than 30 business days for full compliance, the length of and the reasons for the extended period and the major interim steps to correct the compliance issues must be specifically stated. SWAs are responsible for assuring and documenting that the ES office is in compliance within the time period designated in the plan.
(vi) SWAs must submit to the appropriate ETA regional office copies of the onsite review reports and corrective action plans for ES offices.
(vii) The SMA may delegate the review described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section to the SMA's staff, if the SMA finds such delegation necessary. In such event, the SMA is responsible for and must approve the written report of the review.
(4) Ensure all significant MSFW one-stop centers not reviewed onsite by Federal staff are reviewed at least once per year by the SMA or their staff, and that, if necessary, those ES offices in which significant problems are revealed by required reports, management information, the Complaint System, or other means are reviewed as soon as possible.
(5) Review and approve the SWA's AOP.
(6) On a regular basis, review outreach staff's daily logs and other reports including those showing or reflecting the outreach staff's activities.
(7) Write and submit annual summaries to the State Administrator with a copy to the Regional Administrator and the National Monitor Advocate.
(i) The SMA must participate in Federal reviews conducted pursuant to part 658, subpart G, of this chapter, as requested by the Regional or National Monitor Advocate.
(j) The SMA must monitor the performance of the Complaint System, as set forth at §§ 658.400 and 658.401 of this chapter. The SMA must review the ES office's informal resolution of complaints relating to MSFWs and must ensure that the ES Office Manager transmits copies of the Complaint System logs pursuant to part 658, subpart E, of this chapter to the SWA.
(k) The SMA must serve as an advocate to improve services for MSFWs.
(l) The SMA must establish an ongoing liaison with WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) grantees and other organizations serving farmworkers, employers, and employer organizations in the State.
(m) The SMA must establish an ongoing liaison with the State-level Equal Opportunity (E.O.) Officer.
(n) The SMA must meet (either in person or by alternative means), at minimum, quarterly, with representatives of the organizations pursuant to paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section, to receive input on improving coordination with ES offices or improving the coordination of services to MSFWs. To foster such collaboration, the SMAs must communicate freely with these organizations. The SMA must also establish Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the NFJP grantees and may establish MOUs with other organizations serving farmworkers as appropriate.
(o) The SMA must conduct frequent field visits to the working, living, and gathering areas of MSFWs, and must
discuss the SWA's provision of ES services and other employment-related programs with MSFWs, crew leaders, and employers. Records must be kept of each such field visit.
(p) The SMA must participate in the appropriate regional public meeting(s) held by the Department of Labor Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee, other Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Wage and Hour Division task forces, and other committees as appropriate.
(q) The SMA must ensure that outreach efforts in all significant MSFW one-stop centers are reviewed at least yearly. This review will include accompanying at least one outreach staff from each significant MSFW one-stop center on field visits to MSFWs' working, living, and/or gathering areas. The SMA must review findings from these reviews with the ES Office Managers.
(r) The SMA must review on at least a quarterly basis all statistical and other MSFW-related data reported by ES offices in order:
(1) To determine the extent to which the SWA has complied with the ES regulations; and
(2) To identify the areas of non-compliance.
(s) The SMA must have full access to all statistical and other MSFW-related information gathered by SWAs and ES offices and may interview ES staff with respect to reporting methods. After each review, the SMA must consult, as necessary, with the SWA and ES offices and provide technical assistance to ensure accurate reporting.
(t) The SMA must review and comment on proposed State ES directives, manuals, and operating instructions relating to MSFWs and must ensure:
(1) That they accurately reflect the requirements of the regulations; and
(2) That they are clear and workable. The SMA also must explain and make available at the requestor's cost, pertinent directives and procedures to employers, employer organizations, farmworkers, farmworker organizations, and other parties expressing an interest in a readily identifiable directive or procedure issued and receive suggestions on how these documents can be improved.
(u) The SMA must prepare for the State Administrator, the Regional Monitor Advocate, and the National Monitor Advocate an Annual Summary describing how the State provided ES services to MSFWs within the State based on statistical data, reviews, and other activities as required in this chapter. The summary must include:
(1) A description of the activities undertaken during the program year by the SMA pertaining to their responsibilities set forth in this section and other applicable regulations in this chapter.
(2) An assurance that the SMA is a senior-level official who reports directly to the State Administrator or the State Administrator's designee as described at paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) An evaluation of SMA staffing levels, including:
(i) An assurance the SMA devotes all of their time to Monitor Advocate functions or, if the SMA conducts their functions on a part-time basis, an assessment of whether all SMA functions are able to be effectively performed on a part-time basis; and
(ii) An assessment of whether the performance of SMA functions requires increased time by the SMA (if part-time) or an increase in the number of ES staff assigned to assist the SMA in the performance of SMA functions, or both.
(4) A summary of the monitoring reviews conducted by the SMA, including:
(i) A description of any problems, deficiencies, or improper practices the SMA identified in the delivery of services;
(ii) A summary of the actions taken by the SWA to resolve the problems, deficiencies, or improper practices described in its service delivery; and
(iii) A summary of any technical assistance the SMA provided for the SWA, ES offices, and outreach staff.
(5) A summary and analysis of the outreach efforts undertaken by all significant and non-significant MSFW one-stop centers, as well as the results of those efforts, and an analysis of whether the outreach levels and results were adequate.
(6) A summary of the State's actions taken under the Complaint System described in part 658, subpart E, of this chapter, identifying any challenges, complaint trends, findings from reviews of the Complaint System, trainings offered throughout the year, and steps taken to inform MSFWs and employers, and farmworker advocacy groups about the Complaint System.
(7) A summary of how the SMA is working with WIOA sec. 167 NFJP grantees, the State-level E.O. Officer, and other organizations serving farmworkers, employers, and employer organizations in the State, and an assurance that the SMA is meeting at least quarterly with these individuals and representatives of these organizations.
(8) A summary of the statistical and other MSFW-related data and reports gathered by SWAs and ES offices for the year, including an overview of the SMA's involvement in the SWA's reporting systems.
(9) A summary of the training conducted for ES staff on techniques for accurately reporting data.
(10) A summary of activities related to the AOP and an explanation of whether those activities helped the State reach the objectives described in the AOP. At the end of the 4-year AOP cycle, the summary must include a synopsis of the SWA's achievements over the previous 4 years to accomplish the objectives set forth in the AOP, and a description of the objectives which were not achieved and the steps the SWA will take to address those deficiencies.
(11) For significant MSFW one-stop centers, a summary of the State's efforts to comply with § 653.111.
[88 FR 82727, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.109
Data collection and performance accountability measures.
SWAs must:
(a) Collect career service indicator data for the career services specified in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(xii).
(b) Collect data, in accordance with applicable ETA Reports and Guidance, on:
(1) The number of MSFWs contacted through outreach activities;
(2) The number of MSFWs and non-MSFWs registered for career services;
(3) The number of MSFWs referred to and placed in agricultural jobs;
(4) The number of MSFWs referred to and placed in non-agricultural jobs;
(5) The percentage of MSFW program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(6) The median earnings of MSFW program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(7) The percentage of MSFW program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(8) The number of MSFWs served who identified themselves as male, female, Hispanic or Latino, Black or African-American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, or White;
(9) Agricultural clearance orders (including field checks), MSFW complaints and apparent violations, and monitoring activities;
(10) The number of reportable individuals and participants who are MSFWs; and
(11) Any other data required by the Department.
(c) Provide necessary training to ES staff on techniques for accurately reporting data.
(d) Collect and submit data on MSFWs required by the Unified or Combined State Plan, as directed by the Department.
(e) Periodically verify data required to be collected under this section, take necessary steps to ensure its validity, and submit the data for verification to the Department, as directed by the Department.
(f) Submit additional reports to the Department as directed.
(g) Meet equity indicators that address ES controllable services and include, at a minimum, individuals referred to a job, receiving job development, and referred to supportive or career services.
(h) Meet minimum levels of service in significant MSFW States. That is, only significant MSFW States will be required to meet minimum levels of service to MSFWs. Minimum level of service indicators must include, at a minimum, individuals placed in a job,
individuals placed long-term (150 days or more) in a non-agricultural job, a review of significant MSFW one-stop centers, field checks conducted, outreach contacts per quarter, and processing of complaints. The determination of the minimum service levels required of significant MSFW States must be based on the following:
(1) Past SWA performance in serving MSFWs, as reflected in on-site reviews and data collected under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) The need for services to MSFWs in the upcoming year, comparing prior and projected levels of MSFW activity.
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 628, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82729, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.110
Disclosure of data.
(a) SWAs must disclose to the public, on written request, in conformance with applicable State and Federal law, the data collected by SWAs and ES offices pursuant to § 653.109, if possible within 10 business days after receipt of the request.
(b) If a request for data held by a SWA is made to the ETA national or regional office, ETA must forward the request to the SWA for response.
(c) If the SWA cannot supply the requested data within 10 business days after receipt of the request, the SWA must respond to the requestor in writing, giving the reason for the delay and specifying the date by which it expects to be able to comply.
(d) SWA intra-agency memoranda and reports (or parts thereof) and memoranda and reports (or parts thereof) between the SWA and the ETA, to the extent that they contain statements of opinion rather than facts, may be withheld from public disclosure provided the reason for withholding is given to the requestor in writing. Similarly, documents or parts thereof, which, if disclosed, would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal or employer privacy, also may be withheld provided the reason is given to the requestor in writing.
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82730, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.111
State Workforce Agency staffing requirements for significant MSFW one-stop centers.
(a) The SWA must staff significant MSFW one-stop centers in a manner facilitating the delivery of ES services tailored to the unique needs of MSFWs. This includes recruiting qualified candidates who meet the criteria in § 653.107(a)(3).
(b) The SMA, Regional Monitor Advocate, or the National Monitor Advocate, as part of their regular reviews of SWA compliance with these regulations, must monitor the extent to which the SWA has complied with its obligations under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) SWAs remain subject to all applicable Federal laws prohibiting discrimination and protecting equal employment opportunity.
[85 FR 628, Jan. 6, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 82730, Nov. 24, 2023]
Subparts C-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Agricultural Recruitment System for U.S. Workers (ARS)
§ 653.500
Purpose and scope of subpart.
This subpart includes the requirements for the acceptance of intrastate and interstate job clearance orders which seek U.S. workers to perform farmwork on a temporary, less than year-round basis. Orders seeking workers to perform farmwork on a year-round basis are not subject to the requirements of this subpart. This subpart affects all job orders for workers who are recruited through the ES intrastate and interstate clearance systems for less than year-round farmwork, including both MSFWs and non-MSFW job seekers.
§ 653.501
Requirements for processing clearance orders.
(a)
Assessment of need.
No ES staff may place a job order seeking workers to perform farmwork into intrastate or interstate clearance unless:
(1) The ES office and employer have attempted and have not been able to
obtain sufficient workers within the local labor market area; or
(2) The ES office anticipates a shortage of local workers.
(b)
ES office responsibilities.
(1) Each ES office must ensure the agricultural clearance form prescribed by the Department (ETA Form 790 or its subsequently issued form), and its attachments are complete when placing intrastate or interstate clearance orders seeking workers.
(2) All clearance orders must be posted in accordance with applicable ETA guidance. If the job order for the ES office incorporates offices beyond the local office commuting area, the ES office must suppress the employer information in order to facilitate the orderly movement of workers within the ES.
(3) ES staff must determine, through a preoccupancy housing inspection performed by ES staff or an appropriate public agency, that the housing assured by the employer is either available and meets the applicable housing standards or has been approved for conditional access to the clearance system as set forth in § 653.502; except that mobile range housing for sheepherders and goatherders must meet existing Departmental guidelines and/or applicable regulations.
(4) Prior to placing a job order into intrastate or interstate clearance, ES staff must consult the Department's Office of Foreign Labor Certification and Wage and Hour Division debarment lists, and the Department's Office of Workforce Investment discontinuation of services list.
(i) If the employer requesting access to the clearance system is currently debarred from participating in the H-2A or H-2B foreign labor certification programs, the SWA must initiate discontinuation of services pursuant to part 658, subpart F, of this chapter.
(ii) If the employer requesting access to the clearance system is currently discontinued from receiving ES services under § 658.503 of this chapter by any State, the SWA must not approve the clearance order for placement into intrastate or interstate clearance. Employers may submit written requests to the OWI Administrator to determine whether they are on the OWI discontinuation of services list. If the OWI Administrator indicates that the employer is not on the discontinuation of services list then the SWA must approve the clearance order, as long as all other requirements have been met.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), “employer” has the meaning given in § 658.500(b) of this chapter.
(c)
SWA responsibilities.
(1) SWAs must ensure intrastate and interstate clearance orders:
(i) Include the following language: “In view of the statutorily established basic function of the ES as a no-fee labor exchange, that is, as a forum for bringing together employers and job seekers, neither the ETA nor the SWAs are guarantors of the accuracy or truthfulness of information contained on job orders submitted by employers. Nor does any job order accepted or recruited upon by the ES constitute a contractual job offer to which the ETA or a SWA is in any way a party;”
(ii) Do not contain an unlawful discriminatory specification including, for beneficiaries (as defined in 29 CFR 38.4) only, on the basis of citizenship status or participant status;
(iii) Are signed by the employer; and
(iv) State all the material terms and conditions of the employment, including:
(A) The crop;
(B) The nature of the work;
(C) The anticipated period and hours of employment;
(D) The anticipated starting and ending date of employment and the anticipated number of days and hours per week for which work will be available;
(E) The hourly wage rate, if applicable, and any non-hourly wage rate offered, including a piece rate or base rate and bonuses and, for any non-hourly wage rate, an estimate of its hourly wage rate equivalent for each activity and unit size;
(F) Any deductions to be made from wages;
(G) A specification of any non-monetary benefits to be provided by the employer;
(H) Any hours, days, or weeks for which work is guaranteed, and, for each guaranteed week of work except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the exclusive manner in which
the guarantee may be abated due to weather conditions or other acts of God beyond the employer's control; and
(I) Any bonus or work incentive payments or other expenses which will be paid by the employer in addition to the basic wage rate, including the anticipated time period(s) within which such payments will be made.
(2) SWAs must ensure:
(i) The wages offered are not less than the applicable prevailing wages, as defined in § 655.103(b) of this chapter, or the applicable Federal or State minimum wage, whichever is higher. The working conditions offered are not less than the prevailing working conditions among similarly employed farmworkers in the area of intended employment. If the wages offered are expressed as piece rates or as base rates and bonuses, the employer must make the method of calculating the wage and supporting materials available to ES staff who must check if the employer's calculation of the estimated hourly wage rate is reasonably accurate and is not less than the prevailing wage rate or applicable Federal or State minimum wage, whichever is higher; and
(ii) The employer has agreed to provide or pay for the transportation of the workers and their families at or before the end of the period of employment specified in the job order on at least the same terms as transportation is commonly provided by employers in the area of intended employment to farmworkers and their families recruited from the same area of supply. Under no circumstances may the payment or provision of transportation occur later than the departure time needed to return home to begin the school year, in the case of any worker with children 18 years old or younger, or be conditioned on the farmworker performing work after the period of employment specified in the job order.
(3) SWAs must ensure that the employer makes the following assurances in the clearance order:
(i) The employer will provide to workers placed through the clearance system the number of hours of work cited in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(D) of this section for the 14 calendar days beginning with the anticipated date of need, unless the employer has amended the date of need at least 10 business days prior to the original date of need (pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section).
(ii) No extension of employment beyond the period of employment specified in the clearance order may relieve the employer from paying the wages already earned, or if specified in the clearance order as a term of employment, providing transportation or paying transportation expenses to the worker's home.
(iii) The working conditions comply with applicable Federal and State minimum wage, child labor, social security, health and safety, farm labor contractor registration and other employment-related laws.
(iv) The employer will notify the order-holding office or SWA immediately upon learning that a crop is maturing earlier or later, or that weather conditions, over-recruitment, or other factors have changed the terms and conditions of employment. If there is a change to the date of need, the employer will notify the order-holding office or SWA, and each worker who has been placed on the clearance order using the contact information the worker provided to the employer, in writing (email and other forms of electronic written notification are acceptable) at least 10 business days prior to the original date of need. Notification to workers must be made in accordance with the language access requirements of 29 CFR 38.9 for workers with limited English proficiency. If a worker provides electronic contact information, such as an email address or telephone number, the employer will send notice using one of the electronic contact methods provided. If the employer provides non-written telephonic notice, such as a phone call, voice message, or an equivalent, the employer will also send written notice using the email or postal address provided by the worker at least 10 business days prior to the original date of need. The employer will maintain records of the notification and the date notification was sent to the order-holding office or SWA and workers for 3 years. Consistent with paragraph (c)(5) of this section, if the employer does not properly send notification to the order-holding office
or SWA and workers at least 10 business days prior to the original date of need, the employer will provide the housing described on the clearance order to all migrant workers placed on the clearance order who are already traveling to the place of employment, without cost to the workers, until work commences. The employer will pay all placed workers for the hours listed on the clearance order and will provide or pay all other benefits and expenses described on the clearance order for each day work is delayed up to 14 calendar days or provide alternative work.
(v) The employer, if acting as a farm labor contractor (“FLC”) or farm labor contractor employee (“FLCE”) on the order, has a valid Federal FLC certificate or Federal FLCE identification card and when appropriate, any required State farm labor contractor certificate.
(vi) The availability of no cost or public housing which meets the Federal standards and which is sufficient to house the specified number of workers requested through the clearance system. This assurance must cover the availability of housing for only those workers, and when applicable, family members who are not reasonably able to return to their residence in the same day.
(vii) Outreach staff must have reasonable access to the workers in the conduct of outreach activities pursuant to § 653.107.
(viii) The job order contains all the material terms and conditions of the job. The employer must assure this by signing the following statement in the clearance order: “This clearance order describes the actual terms and conditions of the employment being offered by me and contains all the material terms and conditions of the job.”
(4) If a SWA discovers that an employer's clearance order contains a material misrepresentation, the SWA may initiate the Discontinuation of Services as set forth in part 658, subpart F of this chapter.
(5) If there is a change to the anticipated date of need and the employer fails to notify the order-holding office or SWA and all workers placed on the clearance order at least 10 business days prior to the original date of need, as assured in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section, the employer must provide housing to all migrant workers placed on the clearance order who are already traveling to the place of employment, without cost to the workers, until work commences, and must pay all placed workers the specified hourly rate of pay, or if the pay is piece-rate, the higher of the Federal or State minimum wage, or an applicable prevailing wage, or for criteria orders the rate of pay required under part 655, subpart B, of this chapter, and must provide or pay all other benefits and expenses described on the clearance order for each day work is delayed up to 14 calendar days starting with the originally anticipated date of need or provide alternative work if such alternative work is stated on the approved clearance order. If an employer fails to comply under this paragraph (c)(5) the order-holding office must process the information as an apparent violation pursuant to § 658.419 of this chapter and may refer an apparent violation of the employer's payment obligation under this paragraph (c)(5) to the Department's Wage and Hour Division.
(d)
Processing clearance orders.
(1) The order-holding ES office must transmit an electronic copy of the approved clearance order to its SWA. The SWA must distribute additional electronic copies of the form with all attachments (except that the SWA may, at its discretion, delegate this distribution to the local office) as follows:
(i) At least one copy of the clearance order must be sent to each of the SWAs selected for recruitment (areas of supply);
(ii) At least one copy of the clearance order must be sent to each applicant-holding ETA regional office;
(iii) At least one copy of the clearance order must be sent to the order-holding ETA regional office; and
(iv) At least one copy of the clearance order must be sent to the Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee and/or other Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Wage and Hour Division regional agricultural coordinators, and/or other committees as appropriate in the area of employment.
(2) The ES office may place an intrastate or interstate order seeking workers to perform farmwork for a specific farm labor contractor or for a worker preferred by an employer provided the order meets ES nondiscrimination criteria. The order would not meet such criteria, for example, if it requested a “white male crew leader” or “any white male crew leader.”
(3) The approval process described in this paragraph (d)(3) does not apply to clearance orders that are attached to applications for foreign temporary agricultural workers pursuant to part 655, subpart B, of this chapter; such clearance orders must be sent to the processing center as directed by ETA in guidance. For noncriteria clearance orders (orders that are not attached to applications under part 655, subpart B, of this chapter), the ETA regional office must review and approve the order within 10 business days of its receipt of the order, and the Regional Administrator or their designee must approve the areas of supply to which the order will be extended. Any denial by the Regional Administrator or their designee must be in writing and state the reasons for the denial.
(4) The applicant holding office must notify all referred farmworkers, farm labor contractors on behalf of farmworkers, or family heads on behalf of farmworker family members, to contact an ES office, preferably the order-holding office, to verify the date of need cited in the clearance order between 9 and 5 business days prior to the original date of need cited in the clearance order; and that failure to do so will disqualify the referred farmworker from the first weeks' pay as described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. The SWA must make a record of this notification.
(5) If the worker referred through the clearance system contacts an ES office (in any State) other than the order holding office, that ES office must assist the referred worker in contacting the order holding office on a timely basis. Such assistance must include, if necessary, contacting the order holding office by telephone or other timely means on behalf of the worker referred through the clearance system.
(6) ES staff must assist all farmworkers to understand the terms and conditions of employment set forth in intrastate and interstate clearance orders and must provide such workers with checklists showing wage payment schedules, working conditions, and other material specifications of the clearance order.
(7) If an order holding office learns that a crop is maturing earlier than expected or that other material factors, including weather conditions and recruitment levels have changed since the date the clearance order was accepted, the SWA must contact immediately the applicant holding office which must inform immediately crews and families scheduled to report to the job site of the changed circumstances and must adjust arrangements on behalf of such crews and families.
(8) When there is a delay in the date of need, SWAs must document notifications by employers and contacts by individual farmworkers or crew leaders on behalf of farmworkers or family heads on behalf of farmworker family members to verify the date of need.
(9) If weather conditions, over-recruitment, or other conditions have eliminated the scheduled job opportunities, the SWAs involved must make every effort to place the workers in alternate job opportunities as soon as possible, especially if the worker(s) is/are already en route or at the job site. ES staff must keep records of actions under this section.
(10) Applicant-holding offices must provide workers referred on clearance orders with a checklist summarizing wages, working conditions and other material specifications in the clearance order. The checklist must include language notifying the worker that a copy of the original clearance order is available upon request.
(11) The applicant-holding office must give each referred worker a copy of the list of worker's rights described in Departmental guidance.
(12) If the labor supply SWA accepts a clearance order, the SWA must actively recruit workers for referral. In the event a potential labor supply SWA rejects a clearance order, the reasons for rejection must be documented and
submitted to the Regional Administrator having jurisdiction over the SWA. The Regional Administrator will examine the reasons for rejection, and, if the Regional Administrator agrees, will inform the Regional Administrator with jurisdiction over the order-holding SWA of the rejection and the reasons. If the Regional Administrator who receives the notification of rejection does not concur with the reasons for rejection, that Regional Administrator will inform the National Monitor Advocate, who, in consultation with the appropriate ETA higher authority, will make a final determination on the acceptance or rejection of the order.
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 628, Jan. 6, 2020; 87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022; 88 FR 82730, Nov. 24, 2023; 89 FR 35048, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 653.502
Conditional access to the Agricultural Recruitment System.
(a)
Filing requests for conditional access
—(1)
“Noncriteria” employers.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an employer whose housing does not meet applicable standards may file with the ES office serving the area in which its housing is located, a written request for its clearance orders to be conditionally allowed into the intrastate or interstate clearance system, provided that the employer's request assures its housing will be in full compliance with the requirements of the applicable housing standards at least 20 calendar days (giving the specific date) before the housing is to be occupied.
(2)
“Criteria” employers.
If the request for conditional access described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is from an employer filing a clearance order pursuant to an application for temporary alien agricultural labor certification for H-2A workers under subpart B of part 655 of this chapter, the request must be filed with the Certifying Officer (CO) at the processing center designated by ETA in guidance to make determinations on applications for temporary employment certification under the H-2A program.
(3)
Assurance.
The employer's request pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section must contain an assurance that the housing will be in full compliance with the applicable housing standards at least 20 calendar days (stating the specific date) before the housing is to be occupied.
(b)
Processing requests
—(1)
SWA processing.
Upon receipt of a written request for conditional access to the intrastate or interstate clearance system under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the ES office must send the request to the SWA, which, in turn, must forward it to the Regional Administrator.
(2)
Regional office processing and determination.
Upon receipt of a request for conditional access pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Regional Administrator must review the matter and, as appropriate, must either grant or deny the request.
(c)
Authorization.
The authorization for conditional access to the intrastate or interstate clearance system must be in writing, and must state that although the housing does not comply with the applicable standards, the employer's job order may be placed into intrastate or interstate clearance until a specified date. The Regional Administrator must send the authorization to the employer and must send copies (hard copy or electronic) to the appropriate SWA and ES office. The employer must submit and the ES office must attach copies of the authorization to each of the employer's clearance orders which is placed into intrastate or interstate clearance.
(d)
Notice of denial.
If the Regional Administrator denies the request for conditional access to the intrastate or interstate clearance system they must provide written notice to the employer, the appropriate SWA, and the ES office, stating the reasons for the denial.
(e)
Inspection.
The ES office serving the area containing the housing of any employer granted conditional access to the intrastate or interstate clearance system must assure that the housing is inspected no later than the date by which the employer has promised to have its housing in compliance with the applicable housing standards. An employer however, may request an earlier preliminary inspection. If, on the date set forth in the authorization, the housing is not in full compliance with
the applicable housing standards as assured in the request for conditional access, the ES office must afford the employer 5 calendar days to bring the housing into full compliance. After the 5-calendar-day period, if the housing is not in full compliance with the applicable housing standards as assured in the request for conditional access, the ES office must immediately:
(1) Notify the RA or the NPC designated by the Regional Administrator;
(2) With the approval of an appropriate SWA official, remove the employer's clearance orders from intrastate and interstate clearance; and
(3) If workers have been recruited against these orders, in cooperation with the ES agencies in other States, make every reasonable attempt to locate and notify the appropriate crew leaders or workers, and to find alternative and comparable employment for the workers.
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 628, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82730, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.503
Field checks.
(a) If a worker is placed on a clearance order, the SWA must notify the employer in writing that the SWA, through its ES offices, and/or Federal staff, must conduct unannounced field checks to determine and document whether wages, hours, transportation, and working and housing conditions are being provided as specified in the clearance order.
(b) Where the SWA has made placements on 10 or more agricultural clearance orders (pursuant to this subpart) during the quarter, the SWA must conduct field checks on at least 25 percent of the total of such orders. Where the SWA has made placements on nine or fewer job orders during the quarter (but at least one job order), the SWA must conduct field checks on 100 percent of all such orders. This requirement must be met on a quarterly basis.
(c) Field checks must include visit(s) to the worksite at a time when workers are present. When conducting field checks, ES staff must consult both the employees and the employer to ensure compliance with the full terms and conditions of employment.
(d) If the individual conducting the field check observes or receives information, or otherwise has reason to believe that conditions are not as stated in the clearance order or that an employer is violating an employment-related law, the individual must document the finding and attempt informal resolution where appropriate (for example, informal resolution must not be attempted in certain cases, such as E.O.-related issues and others identified by the Department through guidance). If the matter has not been resolved within 5 business days, the SWA must initiate the Discontinuation of Services as set forth at part 658, subpart F of this chapter and must refer apparent violations of employment-related laws to appropriate enforcement agencies in writing.
(e) SWA officials may enter into formal or informal arrangements with appropriate State and Federal enforcement agencies where the enforcement agency staff may conduct field checks instead of and on behalf of the SWA. The agreement may include the sharing of information and any actions taken regarding violations of the terms and conditions of the employment as stated in the clearance order and any other violations of employment-related laws. An enforcement agency field check must satisfy the requirement for SWA field checks where all aspects of wages, hours, and working and housing conditions have been reviewed by the enforcement agency. The SWA must supplement enforcement agency efforts with field checks focusing on areas not addressed by enforcement agencies.
(f) ES staff must keep records of all field checks.
[81 FR 56341, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 628, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82730, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 653.504
Severability.
Should a court hold any portion of any provision of this part to be invalid, the provision will be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding is one of total invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision or subprovision will be severable from this part and will not affect the remainder thereof.
[88 FR 82730, Nov. 24, 2023]
Pt. 654

# PART 654—SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE SYSTEM

# Subpart A—Responsibilities Under Executive Order 12073
Sec.
654.1
Purpose of subpart.
654.3
Description of Executive Order 12073.
654.4
Definitions.
654.5
Classification of labor surplus areas.
654.6
Termination of classification.
654.7
Publication of area classifications.
654.8
Services to firms and individuals in labor surplus areas.
654.9
Filing of complaints.
654.10
Transition provisions.

# Subpart B—Responsibilities Under Executive Order 10582
654.11
Purpose of subpart.
654.12
Description of Executive Order 10582.
654.13
Determination of areas of substantial unemployment.
654.14
Filing of complaints.
Subparts C-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Housing for Farmworkers

# Purpose and Applicability
654.400
Scope and purpose.
654.401
Applicability.
654.402
Variances.
654.403
[Reserved]

# Housing Standards
654.404
Housing site.
654.405
Water supply.
654.406
Excreta and liquid waste disposal.
654.407
Housing.
654.408
Screening.
654.409
Heating.
654.410
Electricity and lighting.
654.411
Toilets.
654.412
Bathing, laundry, and hand washing.
654.413
Cooking and eating facilities.
654.414
Garbage and other refuse.
654.415
Insect and rodent control.
654.416
Sleeping facilities.
654.417
Fire, safety, and first aid.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 49k; 8 U.S.C. 1188(c)(4); 41 Op.A.G. 406 (1959).

# Source:
44 FR 1689, Jan. 5, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Responsibilities Under Executive Order 12073

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 10a
et seq;
29 U.S.C. 49
et seq;
15 U.S.C. 644(n); E.O. 12073; 10582, as amended by E.O. 11051 and 12148.
§ 654.1
Purpose of subpart.
This subpart implements the responsibilities of the Secretary of Labor in classifying labor surplus areas in accordance with Executive Order 12073 (Federal Procurement in Labor Surplus Areas). The Secretary of Labor has delegated responsibilities to the Assistant Secretary, Employment and Training Administration.
[44 FR 1689, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983]
§ 654.3
Description of Executive Order 12073.
Executive Order 12073 requires executive agencies to emphasize procurement set-asides in labor surplus areas. The Secretary of Labor is responsible under this order for classifying and designating labor surplus areas.
[44 FR 1689, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983]
§ 654.4
Definitions.
(a)
Assistant Secretary
shall mean Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training, U.S. Department of Labor.
(b)
Civil jurisdiction
shall mean:
(1) Cities of 25,000 or more population on the basis of the most recently available Bureau of the Census estimates; or
(2) Towns and townships in the States of New Jersey, New York, Michigan, and Pennsylvania of 25,000 or more population and which possess powers and functions similar to cities; or
(3) All counties, except those counties which contain any of the types of political jurisdictions defined in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section; or
(4) All other counties are defined as “balance of county” (
i.e.
, total county less component cities and townships identified in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section); or
(5) County equivalents which are towns in the States of Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut.
(c)
Labor surplus area
shall mean a civil jurisdiction that, in accordance with the criteria specified in § 654.5, has been classified as a labor surplus area.
(d)
Reference period
shall mean the two year period ending December 31 of the year prior to the October 1 annual date of eligibility determination.
[44 FR 1689, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 26071, May 5, 1979; 48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983; 53 FR 23347, June 21, 1988]
§ 654.5
Classification of labor surplus areas.
(a)
Basic criteria.
The Assistant Secretary shall classify a civil jurisdiction as a labor surplus area whenever, as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average unemployment rate for all civilian workers in the civil jurisdiction for the reference period is (1) 120 percent of the national average unemployment rate for civilian workers or higher for the reference period as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or (2) 10 percent or higher. No civil jurisdiction shall be classified as a labor surplus area if the average unemployment rate for all civilian workers for the reference period is less than 6.0 percent.
(b)
Criteria for exceptional circumstances.
The Assistant Secretary, upon petition submitted by the appropriate State Workforce Agency, may classify a civil jurisdiction, a Metropolitan Statistical Area, or a Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area as a labor surplus area whenever such an area meets or is expected to meet the unemployment tests established under § 654.5(a) as a result of exceptional circumstances. For purposes of this paragraph “exceptional circumstances” shall mean catastrophic events, such as natural disasters, plant closings, and contract cancellations expected to have a long-term impact on labor market area conditions, discounting temporary or seasonal factors. For purposes of this paragraph, “Metropolitan Statistical Area” and “Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area” shall mean the areas officially defined and designated as such by the Office of Management and Budget.
(Approved by OMB under control number 1205-0207)
[48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983, as amended at 53 FR 23347, June 21, 1988; 71 FR 35518, June 21, 2006]
§ 654.6
Termination of classification.
(a)
Basic procedure.
The Assistant Secretary shall terminate the classification of a civil jurisdiction as a labor surplus area after any year in which the Assistant Secretary determines that the criteria established under § 654.5 (a) are no longer met.
(b)
Procedure for exceptional circumstances.
The Assistant Secretary shall terminate the classification of a civil jurisdiction classified as a labor surplus area pursuant to the provisions of § 654.5(b) after any year in which the Assistant Secretary determines that the exceptional circumstances criteria of that paragraph are no longer met.
[44 FR 1689, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983]
§ 654.7
Publication of area classifications.
The Assistant Secretary shall publish annually a list of labor surplus areas together with geographic descriptions thereof. The Assistant Secretary periodically may cause these lists to be published in the
Federal Register.
[44 FR 1689, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983]
§ 654.8
Services to firms and individuals in labor surplus areas.
To carry out the purposes and policy objectives of Executive Order 12073 and Executive Order 10582, the Assistant Secretary shall cooperate with and assist the State Workforce Agencies and the Secretary of Commerce, as appropriate, to:
(a) Provide relevant labor market data and related economic information to assist in the initiation of industrial expansion programs in labor surplus areas;
(b) Identify upon request the skills and numbers of unemployed persons available for work in labor surplus areas, providing such information to firms interested in establishing new
plants and facilities or expanding existing plants and facilities in such areas;
(c) Identify the occupational composition and skill requirements of industries contemplating locating in labor surplus areas and make such information available to training and apprenticeship agencies and resources in the community for purposes of appropriate training and skill development;
(d) Identify unemployed individuals in need of, and having the potential for, training in occupations and skills required by new or expanding industries and refer such individuals to appropriate training opportunities;
(e) Receive job openings on a voluntary basis and/or under the mandatory listing program provided by 38 U.S.C. 2012 and Executive Order 11701 and refer qualified unemployed workers to such openings, making appropriate efforts to refer to such openings qualified individuals who reside in the labor surplus area.
[44 FR 1689, Jan. 5, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983; 71 FR 35518, June 21, 2006]
§ 654.9
Filing of complaints.
Complaints alleging that the Department of Labor has violated the labor surplus area regulations should be mailed to the Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Such complaints should include: (a) The allegations of wrongdoing; (b) the date of the incident; and (c) any other relevant information available to the complainant. The Assistant Secretary shall make a determination and respond to the complainant after investigation of the incident. If the complaint is not resolved following this investigation, the Assistant Secretary, at his discretion, may offer, in writing by certified mail, the complainant a hearing before a Department of Labor Administrative Law Judge, provided that the complainant requests such a hearing from the Assistant Secretary within 20 working days of the certified date of receipt of the Assistant Secretary's offer of a hearing.
[48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983]
§ 654.10
Transition provisions.
The annual list of labor surplus areas for the period June 1, 1982, through May 31, 1983, shall be extended through September 30, 1983.
[48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983]

# Subpart B—Responsibilities Under Executive Order 10582

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 10a
et seq.;
29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.;
15 U.S.C. 644(n); E.O. 12073, E.O. 10582 as amended by E.O. 11051 and 12148.
§ 654.11
Purpose of subpart.
This subpart implements the responsibilities of the Secretary of Labor in determining areas of substantial unemployment in accordance with Executive Order 10582 issued pursuant to the Buy American Act, 41 U.S.C. 10a
et seq.
§ 654.12
Description of Executive Order 10582.
(a) Under the Buy American Act, heads of executive agencies are required to determine, as a condition precedent to the purchase by their agencies of materials of foreign origin for public use within the United States, (1) that the price of like materials of domestic origin is unreasonable, or (2) that the purchase of like materials of domestic origin is inconsistent with the public interest.
(b) Section 3(c) of Executive Order 10582 issued pursuant to the Buy American Act permits executive agencies to reject a bid or offer to furnish materials of foreign origin in any situation in which the domestic supplier, offering the lowest price for furnishing the desired materials, undertakes to produce substantially all of the materials in areas of substantial unemployment, as determined by the Secretary of Labor.
§ 654.13
Determination of areas of substantial unemployment.
An area of substantial unemployment, for purposes of Executive Order 10582, shall be any area classified as a labor surplus area at § 654.5 of this part pursuant to the procedures set forth at subpart A of this part.
§ 654.14
Filing of complaints.
Complaints arising under subpart B of this part alleging that the Department of Labor has violated the labor surplus area regulations shall be made pursuant to the procedures set forth at § 654.9 of this part.
[48 FR 15616, Apr. 12, 1983]
Subparts C-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Housing for Farmworkers

# Source:
81 FR 56349, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Purpose and Applicability
§ 654.400
Scope and purpose.
(a) This subpart sets forth the Department's Employment and Training Administration (ETA) standards for agricultural housing and variances. Local Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service (ES) offices, as part of the State ES agencies and in cooperation with the ES program, assist employers in recruiting farmworkers from places outside the area of intended employment. The experiences of the ES agencies indicate that employees so referred have on many occasions been provided with inadequate, unsafe, and unsanitary housing conditions. To discourage this practice, it is the policy of the Federal-State ES system to deny its intrastate and interstate recruitment services to employers until the State ES agency has ascertained that the employer's housing meets certain standards.
(b) To implement this policy, § 653.501 of this chapter provides that recruitment services must be denied unless the employer has signed an assurance that if the workers are to be housed, a preoccupancy inspection has been conducted, and the ES staff has ascertained that, with respect to intrastate or interstate clearance orders, the employer's housing meets the full set of standards set forth at 29 CFR 1910.142 or this subpart, except that mobile range housing for sheepherders or goatherders must meet existing Departmental guidelines and/or applicable regulations.
§ 654.401
Applicability.
(a) Employers whose housing was completed or under construction prior to April 3, 1980, or was under a signed contract for construction prior to March 4, 1980, may continue to follow the full set of the Department's ETA standards set forth in this subpart.
(b) The Department will consider agricultural housing which complies with ETA transitional standards set forth in this subpart also to comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) temporary labor camp standards at 29 CFR 1910.142.
§ 654.402
Variances.
(a) An employer may apply for a structural variance from a specific standard(s) in this subpart by filing a written application for such a variance with the local ES office serving the area in which the housing is located. This application must:
(1) Clearly specify the standard(s) from which the variance is desired;
(2) Adequately justify that the variance is necessary to obtain a beneficial use of an existing facility, and to prevent a practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship; and
(3) Clearly set forth the specific alternative measures which the employer has taken to protect the health and safety of workers and adequately show that such alternative measures have achieved the same result as the standard(s) from which the employer desires the variance.
(b) Upon receipt of a written request for a variance under paragraph (a) of this section, the local ES office must send the request to the State office which, in turn, must forward it to the ETA Regional Administrator (RA). The RA must review the matter and, after consultation with OSHA, must either grant or deny the request for a variance.
(c) The variance granted by the RA must be in writing, must state the particular standard(s) involved, and must state as conditions of the variance the specific alternative measures which have been taken to protect the health and safety of the workers. The RA must send the approved variance to the employer and must send copies to OSHA's Regional Administrator, the
Regional Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division (WHD), and the appropriate State Workforce Agency (SWA) and the local ES office. The employer must submit and the local ES office must attach copies of the approved variance to each of the employer's job orders which is placed into intrastate or interstate clearance.
(d) If the RA denies the request for a variance, the RA must provide written notice stating the reasons for the denial to the employer, the appropriate SWA, and the local ES office. The notice also must offer the employer an opportunity to request a hearing before a Department of Labor Hearing Officer, provided the employer requests such a hearing from the RA within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice. The request for a hearing must be handled in accordance with the complaint procedures set forth at §§ 658.424 and 658.425 of this chapter.
(e) The procedures of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section only apply to an employer who has chosen, as evidenced by its written request for a variance, to comply with the ETA housing standards at §§ 654.404 through 654.417.
§ 654.403
[Reserved]

# Housing Standards
§ 654.404
Housing site.
(a) Housing sites must be well drained and free from depressions in which water may stagnate. They must be located where the disposal of sewage is provided in a manner which neither creates nor is likely to create a nuisance, or a hazard to health.
(b) Housing must not be subject to, or in proximity to, conditions that create or are likely to create offensive odors, flies, noise, traffic, or any similar hazards.
(c) Grounds within the housing site must be free from debris, noxious plants (poison ivy, etc.) and uncontrolled weeds or brush.
(d) The housing site must provide a space for recreation reasonably related to the size of the facility and the type of occupancy.
§ 654.405
Water supply.
(a) An adequate and convenient supply of water that meets the standards of the State health authority must be provided.
(b) A cold water tap must be available within 100 feet of each individual living unit when water is not provided in the unit. Adequate drainage facilities must be provided for overflow and spillage.
(c) Common drinking cups are not permitted.
§ 654.406
Excreta and liquid waste disposal.
(a) Facilities must be provided and maintained for effective disposal of excreta and liquid waste. Raw or treated liquid waste may not be discharged or allowed to accumulate on the ground surface.
(b) Where public sewer systems are available, all facilities for disposal of excreta and liquid wastes must be connected thereto.
(c) Where public sewers are not available, a subsurface septic tank-seepage system or other type of liquid waste treatment and disposal system, privies or portable toilets must be provided. Any requirements of the State health authority must be complied with.
§ 654.407
Housing.
(a) Housing must be structurally sound, in good repair, in a sanitary condition and must provide protection to the occupants against the elements.
(b) Housing must have flooring constructed of rigid materials, smooth finished, readily cleanable, and so located as to prevent the entrance of ground and surface water.
(c) The following space requirements must be provided:
(1) For sleeping purposes only in family units and in dormitory accommodations using single beds, not less than 50 square feet of floor space per occupant;
(2) For sleeping purposes in dormitory accommodations using double bunk beds only, not less than 40 square feet per occupant; and
(3) For combined cooking, eating, and sleeping purposes not less than 60 square feet of floor space per occupant.
(d) Housing used for families with one or more children over 6 years of
age must have a room or partitioned sleeping area for the husband and wife. The partition must be of rigid materials and installed so as to provide reasonable privacy.
(e) Separate sleeping accommodations must be provided for each sex or each family.
(f) Adequate and separate arrangements for hanging clothing and storing personal effects for each person or family must be provided.
(g) At least one-half of the floor area in each living unit must have a minimum ceiling height of 7 feet. No floor space may be counted toward minimum requirements where the ceiling height is less than 5 feet.
(h) Each habitable room (not including partitioned areas) must have at least one window or skylight opening directly to the out-of-doors. The minimum total window or skylight area, including windows in doors, must equal at least 10 percent of the usable floor area. The total openable area must equal at least 45 percent of the minimum window or skylight area required, except where comparably adequate ventilation is supplied by mechanical or some other method.
§ 654.408
Screening.
(a) All outside openings must be protected with screening of not less than 16 mesh.
(b) All screen doors must be tight fitting, in good repair, and equipped with self-closing devices.
§ 654.409
Heating.
(a) All living quarters and service rooms must be provided with properly installed, operable heating equipment capable of maintaining a temperature of at least 68 degrees Fahrenheit ( °F) if during the period of normal occupancy the temperature in such quarters falls below 68 °F.
(b) Any stoves or other sources of heat utilizing combustible fuel must be installed and vented in such a manner as to prevent fire hazards and a dangerous concentration of gases. No portable heaters other than those operated by electricity may be provided. If a solid or liquid fuel stove is used in a room with wooden or other combustible flooring, there must be a concrete slab, insulated metal sheet, or other fireproof material on the floor under each stove, extending at least 18 inches beyond the perimeter of the base of the stove.
(c) Any wall or ceiling within 18 inches of a solid or liquid fuel stove or a stovepipe must be of fireproof material. A vented metal collar must be installed around a stovepipe, or vent passing through a wall, ceiling, floor, or roof.
(d) When a heating system has automatic controls, the controls must be of the type which cut off the fuel supply upon the failure or interruption of the flame or ignition, or whenever a predetermined safe temperature or pressure is exceeded.
§ 654.410
Electricity and lighting.
(a) All housing sites must be provided with electric service.
(b) Each habitable room and all common use rooms, and areas such as: laundry rooms, toilets, privies, hallways, stairways, etc., must contain adequate ceiling or wall-type light fixtures. At least one wall-type electrical convenience outlet must be provided in each individual living room.
(c) Adequate lighting must be provided for the yard area, and pathways to common use facilities.
(d) All wiring and lighting fixtures must be installed and maintained in a safe condition.
§ 654.411
Toilets.
(a) Toilets must be constructed, located, and maintained so as to prevent any nuisance or public health hazard.
(b) Water closets or privy seats for each sex must be in the ratio of not less than one such unit for each 15 occupants, with a minimum of one unit for each sex in common use facilities.
(c) Urinals, constructed of nonabsorbent materials, may be substituted for men's toilet seats on the basis of one urinal or 24 inches of trough-type urinal for one toilet seat up to a maximum of one-third of the required toilet seats.
(d) Except in individual family units, separate toilet accommodations for men and women must be provided. If toilet facilities for men and women are
in the same building, they must be separated by a solid wall from floor to roof or ceiling. Toilets must be distinctly marked “men” and “women” in English and in the native language of the persons expected to occupy the housing.
(e) Where common use toilet facilities are provided, an adequate and accessible supply of toilet tissue, with holders, must be furnished.
(f) Common use toilets and privies must be well lighted and ventilated and must be clean and sanitary.
(g) Toilet facilities must be located within 200 feet of each living unit.
(h) Privies may not be located closer than 50 feet from any living unit or any facility where food is prepared or served.
(i) Privy structures and pits must be fly-tight. Privy pits must have adequate capacity for the required seats.
§ 654.412
Bathing, laundry, and hand washing.
(a) Bathing and hand washing facilities, supplied with hot and cold water under pressure, must be provided for the use of all occupants. These facilities must be clean and sanitary and located within 200 feet of each living unit.
(b) There must be a minimum of 1 showerhead per 15 persons. Showerheads must be spaced at least 3 feet apart, with a minimum of 9 square feet of floor space per unit. Adequate, dry dressing space must be provided in common use facilities. Shower floors must be constructed of nonabsorbent nonskid materials and sloped to properly constructed floor drains. Except in individual family units, separate shower facilities must be provided each sex. When common use shower facilities for both sexes are in the same building they must be separated by a solid nonabsorbent wall extending from the floor to ceiling, or roof, and must be plainly designated “men” or “women” in English and in the native language of the persons expected to occupy the housing.
(c) Lavatories or equivalent units must be provided in a ratio of 1 per 15 persons.
(d) Laundry facilities, supplied with hot and cold water under pressure, must be provided for the use of all occupants. Laundry trays or tubs must be provided in the ratio of 1 per 25 persons. Mechanical washers may be provided in the ratio of 1 per 50 persons in lieu of laundry trays, although a minimum of 1 laundry tray per 100 persons must be provided in addition to the mechanical washers.
§ 654.413
Cooking and eating facilities.
(a) When workers or their families are permitted or required to cook in their individual unit, a space must be provided and equipped for cooking and eating. Such space must be provided with:
(1) A cookstove or hot plate with a minimum of two burners;
(2) Adequate food storage shelves and a counter for food preparation;
(3) Provisions for mechanical refrigeration of food at a temperature of not more than 45 °F;
(4) A table and chairs or equivalent seating and eating arrangements, all commensurate with the capacity of the unit; and
(5) Adequate lighting and ventilation.
(b) When workers or their families are permitted or required to cook and eat in a common facility, a room or building separate from the sleeping facilities must be provided for cooking and eating. Such room or building must be provided with:
(1) Stoves or hot plates, with a minimum equivalent of 2 burners, in a ratio of 1 stove or hot plate to 10 persons, or 1 stove or hot plate to 2 families;
(2) Adequate food storage shelves and a counter for food preparation;
(3) Mechanical refrigeration for food at a temperature of not more than 45 °F;
(4) Tables and chairs or equivalent seating adequate for the intended use of the facility;
(5) Adequate sinks with hot and cold water under pressure;
(6) Adequate lighting and ventilation; and
(7) Floors must be of nonabsorbent, easily cleaned materials.
(c) When central mess facilities are provided, the kitchen and mess hall
must be in proper proportion to the capacity of the housing and must be separate from the sleeping quarters. The physical facilities, equipment, and operation must be in accordance with provisions of applicable State codes.
(d) Wall surface adjacent to all food preparation and cooking areas must be of nonabsorbent, easily cleaned material. In addition, the wall surface adjacent to cooking areas must be of fire-resistant material.
§ 654.414
Garbage and other refuse.
(a) Durable, fly-tight, clean containers in good condition of a minimum capacity of 20 gallons, must be provided adjacent to each housing unit for the storage of garbage and other refuse. Such containers must be provided in a minimum ratio of 1 per 15 persons.
(b) Provisions must be made for collection of refuse at least twice a week, or more often if necessary. The disposal of refuse, which includes garbage, must be in accordance with State and local law.
§ 654.415
Insect and rodent control.
Housing and facilities must be free of insects, rodents, and other vermin.
§ 654.416
Sleeping facilities.
(a) Sleeping facilities must be provided for each person. Such facilities must consist of comfortable beds, cots, or bunks, provided with clean mattresses.
(b) Any bedding provided by the housing operator must be clean and sanitary.
(c) Triple deck bunks may not be provided.
(d) The clear space above the top of the lower mattress of a double deck bunk and the bottom of the upper bunk must be a minimum of 27 inches. The distance from the top of the upper mattress to the ceiling must be a minimum of 36 inches.
(e) Beds used for double occupancy may be provided only in family accommodations.
§ 654.417
Fire, safety, and first aid.
(a) All buildings in which people sleep or eat must be constructed and maintained in accordance with applicable State or local fire and safety laws.
(b) In family housing and housing units for less than 10 persons, of one story construction, two means of escape must be provided. One of the two required means of escape may be a readily accessible window with an openable space of not less than 24 × 24 inches.
(c) All sleeping quarters intended for use by 10 or more persons, central dining facilities, and common assembly rooms must have at least two doors remotely separated so as to provide alternate means of escape to the outside or to an interior hall.
(d) Sleeping quarters and common assembly rooms on the second story must have a stairway, and a permanent, affixed exterior ladder or a second stairway.
(e) Sleeping and common assembly rooms located above the second story must comply with the State and local fire and building codes relative to multiple story dwellings.
(f) Fire extinguishing equipment must be provided in a readily accessible place located not more than 100 feet from each housing unit. Such equipment must provide protection equal to a 2
1/2
gallon stored pressure or 5-gallon pump-type water extinguisher.
(g) First aid facilities must be provided and readily accessible for use at all time. Such facilities must be equivalent to the 16 unit first aid kit recommended by the American Red Cross, and provided in a ratio of 1 per 50 persons.
(h) No flammable or volatile liquids or materials must be stored in or adjacent to rooms used for living purposes, except for those needed for current household use.
(i) Agricultural pesticides and toxic chemicals may not be stored in the housing area.
Pt. 655

# PART 655—TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN WORKERS IN THE UNITED STATES
Sec.
655.0
Purpose and scope of part.
655.00
Authority of the Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC) Administrator under subparts A, B, and C.

# Subpart A—Labor Certification Process for Temporary Non-Agricultural Employment in the United States (H-2B Workers)
655.1
Scope and purpose of this subpart.
655.2
Authority of the agencies, offices, and divisions in the Department of Labor.
655.3
Territory of Guam.
655.4
Transition procedures.
655.5
Definition of terms.
655.6
Temporary need.
655.7
Persons and entities authorized to file.
655.8
Requirements for agents.
655.9
Disclosure of foreign worker recruitment.

# Prefiling Procedures
655.10
Determination of prevailing wage for temporary labor certification purposes.
655.11
Registration of H-2B employers.
655.12
Use of registration of H-2B employers.
655.13
Review of PWDs.
655.14
[Reserved]

# Application for Temporary Employment Certification Filing Procedures
655.15
Application filing requirements.
655.16
Filing of the job order at the SWA.
655.17
Emergency situations.
655.18
Job order assurances and contents.
655.19
Job contractor filing requirements.

# Assurances and Obligations
655.20
Assurances and obligations of H-2B employers.
655.21-655.29
[Reserved]

# Processing of An Application for Temporary Employment Certification
655.30
Processing of an application and job order.
655.31
Notice of deficiency.
655.32
Submission of a modified application or job order.
655.33
Notice of acceptance.
655.34
Electronic job registry.
655.35
Amendments to an application or job order.
655.36-655.39
[Reserved]

# Post-Acceptance Requirements
655.40
Employer-conducted recruitment.
655.41
Advertising requirements.
655.42
[Reserved]
655.43
Contact with former U.S. employees.
655.44
[Reserved]
655.45
Contact with bargaining representative, posting and other contact requirements.
655.46
Additional employer-conducted recruitment.
655.47
Referrals of U.S. workers.
655.48
Recruitment report.
655.49
[Reserved]

# Labor Certification Determinations
655.50
Determinations.
655.51
Criteria for certification.
655.52
Approved certification.
655.53
Denied certification.
655.54
Partial certification.
655.55
Validity of temporary labor certification.
655.56
Document retention requirements of H-2B employers.
655.57
Request for determination based on nonavailability of U.S. workers.
655.58-655.59
[Reserved]

# Post Certification Activities
655.60
Extensions.
655.61
Administrative review.
655.62
Withdrawal of an Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
655.63
Public disclosure.
655.64
Special application filing and eligibility provisions for Fiscal Year 2025 under the December 2, 2024, supplemental cap increase. (eff. Dec. 2, 2024 thru Sept. 30, 2025)
655.65
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2024 through 2027 under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, as extended by Public Law 118-15. (Eff. thru Sept. 30, 2027)
655.66
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026 under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022 (eff. May 18, 2022 through Oct. 1, 2025). Years 2023 through 2026 under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022, as extended by Public Law 117-180 (eff. Dec. 15, 2022 through Oct. 1, 2026).
655.68
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2025 through 2028 under the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024, as extended by Public Law 118-83. (eff. Dec. 2, 2024 thru Sept. 30, 2028)
655.69
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026 under Public Laws 116-260, 117-43, and 117-70.

# Integrity Measures
655.70
Audits.
655.71
CO-ordered assisted recruitment.
655.72
Revocation.
655.73
Debarment.
655.74-655.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Labor Certification Process for Temporary Agricultural Employment in the United States (H-2A Workers)
655.100
Purpose and scope of this subpart.
655.101
Authority of the agencies, offices, and divisions in the Department of Labor.
655.102
Transition procedures.
655.103
Overview of this subpart and definition of terms.
655.104
Successors in interest.

# Pre-Filing Procedures
655.120
Offered wage rate.
655.121
Job order filing requirements.
655.122
Contents of job offers.
655.123
[Reserved]
655.124
Withdrawal of a job order.

# Application for Temporary Employment Certification Filing Procedures
655.130
Application filing requirements.
655.131
Agricultural association and joint employer filing requirements.
655.132
H-2A labor contractor filing requirements.
655.133
Requirements for agents.
655.134
Emergency situations.
655.135
Assurances and obligations of H-2A employers.
655.136
Withdrawal of an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order.
655.137
Disclosure of foreign worker recruitment.

# Processing of Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
655.140
Review of applications.
655.141
Notice of deficiency.
655.142
Submission of modified applications.
655.143
Notice of acceptance.
655.144
Electronic job registry.
655.145
Amendments to
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.

# Post-Acceptance Requirements
655.150
Interstate clearance of job order.
655.151-655.152
[Reserved]
655.153
Contact with former U.S. workers.
655.154
Additional positive recruitment.
655.155
Referrals of U.S. workers.
655.156
Recruitment report.
655.157
Withholding of U.S. workers prohibited.
655.158
Duration of positive recruitment.

# Labor Certification Determinations
655.160
Determinations.
655.161
Criteria for certification.
655.162
Approved certification.
655.163
Certification fee.
655.164
Denied certification.
655.165
Partial certification.
655.166
Requests for determinations based on nonavailability of U.S. workers.
655.167
Document retention requirements of H-2A employers.

# Post-Certification
655.170
Extensions.
655.171
Appeals.
655.172
Post-certification withdrawals.
655.173
Setting meal charges; petition for higher meal charges.
655.174
Public disclosure.
655.175
Post-certification changes to applications for temporary employment certification.

# Integrity Measures
655.180
Audit.
655.181
Revocation.
655.182
Debarment.
655.183
Less than substantial violations.
655.184
Applications involving fraud or willful misrepresentation.
655.185
Job service complaint system; enforcement of work contracts.

# Labor Certification Process for Temporary Agricultural Employment in Range Sheep Herding, Goat Herding, and Production of Livestock Occupations
655.200
Scope and purpose of herding and range livestock regulations in this section and §§ 655.201 through 655.235.
655.201
Definition of herding and range livestock terms.
655.205
Herding and range livestock job orders.
655.210
Contents of herding and range livestock job orders.
655.211
Herding and range livestock wage rate.
655.215
Procedures for filing herding and range livestock
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.
655.220
Processing herding and range livestock
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
.
655.225
Post-acceptance requirements for herding and range livestock.
655.230
Range housing.
655.235
Standards for range housing.

# Labor Certification Process for Temporary Agricultural Employment in Animal Shearing, Commercial Beekeeping, Custom Combining, and Reforestation Occupations
655.300
Scope and purpose.
655.301
Definition of terms.
655.302
Contents of job orders.
655.303
Procedures for filing
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
.
655.304
Standards for mobile housing.
Subparts C-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Labor Certification Process for Temporary Employment in the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands (CW-1 Workers)
655.400
Scope and purpose of this subpart.
655.401
Authority of the agencies, offices, and divisions in the Department of Labor.
655.402
Definition of terms.
655.403
Persons and entities authorized to file.
655.404
Requirements for agents.
655.405-655.409
[Reserved]

# Prefiling Procedures
655.410
Offered wage rate and determination of prevailing wage.
655.411
Review of prevailing wage determinations.
655.412-655.419
[Reserved]

# CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification Filing Procedures
655.420
Application filing requirements.
655.421
Job contractor filing requirements.
655.422
Emergency situations.
655.423
Assurances and obligations of CW-1 employers.
655.424-655.429
[Reserved]

# Processing of an CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
655.430
Review of applications.
655.431
Notice of Deficiency.
655.432
Submission of modified applications.
655.433
Notice of Acceptance.
655.434
Amendments to an application.
655.435-655.439
[Reserved]

# Post Acceptance Requirements
655.440
Employer-conducted recruitment.
655.441
Job offer assurances and advertising contents.
655.442
Place advertisement with CNMI Department of Labor.
655.443
Contact with former U.S. workers.
655.444
Notice of posting requirement.
655.445
Additional employer-conducted recruitment.
655.446
Recruitment report.
655.447-655.449
[Reserved]

# Labor Certification Determinations
655.450
Determinations.
655.451
Criteria for temporary labor certification.
655.452
Approved certification.
655.453
Denied certification.
655.454
Partial certification.
655.455
Validity of temporary labor certification.
655.456
Document retention requirements for CW-1 employers.
655.457-655.459
[Reserved]

# Post Certification Activities
655.460
Extensions.
655.461
Administrative review.
655.462
Withdrawal of a CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
655.463
Public disclosure.
655.464-655.469
[Reserved]

# Integrity Measures
655.470
Audits.
655.471
Assisted recruitment.
655.472
Revocation.
655.473
Debarment.
655.474-655.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Attestations by Employers Using Alien Crewmembers for Longshore Activities in U.S. Ports

# General Provisions
655.500
Purpose, procedure and applicability of subparts F and G of this part.
655.501
Overview of responsibilities.
655.502
Definitions.
655.510
Employer attestations.
655.520
Special provisions regarding automated vessels.

# Alaska Exception
655.530
Special provisions regarding the performance of longshore activities at locations in the State of Alaska.
655.531
Who may submit attestations for locations in Alaska?
655.532
Where and when should attestations be submitted for locations in Alaska?
655.533
What should be submitted for locations in Alaska?
655.534
The first attestation element for locations in Alaska: Bona fide request for dispatch of United States longshore workers.
655.535
The second attestation element for locations in Alaska: Employment of United States longshore workers.
655.536
The third attestation element for locations in Alaska: No intention or design to influence bargaining representative election.
655.537
The fourth attestation element for locations in Alaska: Notice of filing.
655.538
Actions on attestations submitted for filing for locations in Alaska.
655.539
Effective date and validity of filed attestations for locations in Alaska.
655.540
Suspension or invalidation of filed attestations for locations in Alaska.
655.541
Withdrawal of accepted attestations for locations in Alaska.

# Public Access
655.550
Public access.
Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 655—U.S. Seaports

# Subpart G—Enforcement of the Limitations Imposed on Employers Using Alien Crewmembers for Longshore Activities in U.S. Ports
655.600
Enforcement authority of Administrator, Wage and Hour Division.
655.605
Complaints and investigative procedures.
655.610
Automated vessel exception to prohibition on utilization of alien crewmember(s) to perform longshore activity(ies) at a U.S. port.
655.615
Cease and desist order.
655.620
Civil money penalties and other remedies.
655.625
Written notice, service and Federal Register publication of Administrator's determination.
655.630
Request for hearing.
655.635
Rules of practice for administrative law judge proceedings.
655.640
Service and computation of time.
655.645
Administrative law judge proceedings.
655.650
Decision and order of administrative law judge.
655.655
Secretary's review of administrative law judge's decision.
655.660
Administrative record.
655.665
Notice to the Department of Homeland Security and the Employment and Training Administration.
655.670
Federal Register notice of determination of prevailing practice.
655.675
Non-applicability of the Equal Access to Justice Act.

# Subpart H—Labor Condition Applications and Requirements for Employers Seeking To Employ Nonimmigrants on H-1b Visas in Specialty Occupations and as Fashion Models, and Requirements for Employers Seeking To Employ Nonimmigrants on H-1b1 and E-3 Visas in Specialty Occupations
655.700
What statutory provisions govern the employment of H-1B, H-1B1, and E-3 nonimmigrants and how do employers apply for H-1B, H-1B1, and E-3 visas?
655.705
What Federal agencies are involved in the H-1B and H-1B1 programs, and what are the responsibilities of those agencies and of employers?
655.710
What is the procedure for filing a complaint?
655.715
Definitions
655.720
Where are labor condition applications (LCAs) to be filed and processed?
655.721
[Reserved]
655.730
What is the process for filing a labor condition application?
655.731
What is the first LCA requirement, regarding wages?
655.732
What is the second LCA requirement, regarding working conditions?
655.733
What is the third LCA requirement, regarding strikes and lockouts?
655.734
What is the fourth LCA requirement, regarding notice?
655.735
What are the special provisions for short-term placement of H-1B nonimmigrants at place(s) of employment outside the area(s) of intended employment listed on the LCA?
655.736
What are H-1B-dependent employers and willful violators?
655.737
What are “exempt” H-1B nonimmigrants, and how does their employment affect the additional attestation obligations of H-1B-dependent employers and willful violator employers?
655.738
What are the “non-displacement of U.S. workers” obligations that apply to H-1B-dependent employers and willful violators, and how do they operate?
655.739
What is the “recruitment of U.S. workers” obligation that applies to H-1B-dependent employers and willful violators, and how does it operate?
655.740
What actions are taken on labor condition applications?
655.750
What is the validity period of the labor condition application?
655.760
What records are to be made available to the public, and what records are to be retained?

# Subpart I—Enforcement of H-1B Labor Condition Applications and H-1B1 and E-3 Labor Attestations
655.800
Who will enforce the LCAs and how will they be enforced?
655.801
What protection do employees have from retaliation?
655.805
What violations may the Administrator investigate?
655.806
Who may file a complaint and how is it processed?
655.807
How may someone who is not an “aggrieved party” allege violations, and how will those allegations be processed?
655.808
Under what circumstances may random investigations be conducted?
655.810
What remedies may be ordered if violations are found?
655.815
What are the requirements for the Administrator's determination?
655.820
How is a hearing requested?
655.825
What rules of practice apply to the hearing?
655.830
What rules apply to service of pleadings?
655.835
How will the administrative law judge conduct the proceeding?
655.840
What are the requirements for a decision and order of the administrative law judge?
655.845
What rules apply to appeal of the decision of the administrative law judge?
655.850
Who has custody of the administrative record?
655.855
What notice shall be given to the Employment and Training Administration and the DHS of the decision regarding violations?
Subparts J-K [Reserved]

# Subpart L—What requirements must a facility meet to employ H-1C nonimmigrant workers as registered nurses?
655.1100
What are the purposes, procedures and applicability of the regulations in subparts L and M of this part?
655.1101
What are the responsibilities of the government agencies and the facilities that participate in the H-1C program?
655.1102
What are the definitions of terms that are used in these regulations?
655.1110
What requirements are imposed in the filing of an attestation?
655.1111
Element I—What hospitals are eligible to participate in the H-1C program?
655.1112
Element II—What does “no adverse effect on wages and working conditions” mean?
655.1113
Element III—What does “facility wage rate” mean?
655.1114
Element IV—What are the timely and significant steps an H-1C employer must take to recruit and retain U.S. nurses?
655.1115
Element V—What does “no strike/lockout or layoff” mean?
655.1116
Element VI—What notification must facilities provide to registered nurses?
655.1117
Element VII—What are the limitations as to the number of H-1C nonimmigrants that a facility may employ?
655.1118
Element VIII—What are the limitations as to where the H-1C nonimmigrant may be employed?
655.1130
What criteria does the Department use to determine whether or not to certify an Attestation?
655.1132
When will the Department suspend or invalidate an already-approved Attestation?
655.1135
What appeals procedures are available concerning ETA's actions on a facility's Attestation?
655.1150
What materials must be available to the public?

# Subpart M—What are the Department's enforcement obligations with respect to H-1C Attestations?
655.1200
What enforcement authority does the Department have with respect to a facility's H-1C Attestation?
655.1205
What is the Administrator's responsibility with respect to complaints and investigations?
655.1210
What penalties and other remedies may the Administrator impose?
655.1215
How are the Administrator's investigation findings issued?
655.1220
Who can appeal the Administrator's findings and what is the process?
655.1225
What are the rules of practice before an ALJ?
655.1230
What time limits are imposed in ALJ proceedings?
655.1235
What are the ALJ proceedings?
655.1240
When and how does an ALJ issue a decision?
655.1245
Who can appeal the ALJ's decision and what is the process?
655.1250
Who is the official record keeper for these administrative appeals?
655.1255
What are the procedures for the debarment of a facility based on a finding of violation?
655.1260
Can Equal Access to Justice Act attorney fees be awarded?

# Subpart N—Labor Certification Process for Temporary Agricultural Employment in the United States (H-2A Workers)
655.1290
Purpose and scope of subpart B.
655.1292
Authority of ETA-OFLC.
655.1293
Special procedures.
655.1300
Overview of subpart B and definition of terms.
655.1301
Applications for temporary employment certification in agriculture.
655.1302
Required pre-filing activity.
655.1303
Advertising requirements.
655.1304
Contents of job offers.
655.1305
Assurances and obligations of H-2A employers.
655.1306
Assurances and obligations of H-2A Labor Contractors.
655.1307
Processing of applications.
655.1308
Offered wage rate.
655.1309
Labor certification determinations.
655.1310
Validity and scope of temporary labor certifications.
655.1311
Required departure.
655.1312
Audits.
655.1313
H-2A applications involving fraud or willful misrepresentation.
655.1314
Setting meal charges; petition for higher meal charges.
655.1315
Administrative review and de novo hearing before an administrative law judge.
655.1316
Job Service Complaint System; enforcement of work contracts.
655.1317
Revocation of approved labor certifications.
655.1318
Debarment.
655.1319
Document retention requirements.

# Authority:
Section 655.0 issued under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)(iii), 1101(a)(15)(H)(i) and
(ii), 8 U.S.C. 1103(a)(6), 1182(m), (n), and (t), 1184(c), (g), and (j), 1188, and 1288(c) and (d); sec. 3(c)(1), Pub. L. 101-238, 103 Stat. 2099, 2102 (8 U.S.C. 1182 note); sec. 221(a), Pub. L. 101-649, 104 Stat. 4978, 5027 (8 U.S.C. 1184 note); sec. 303(a)(8), Pub. L. 102-232, 105 Stat. 1733, 1748 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note); sec. 323(c), Pub. L. 103-206, 107 Stat. 2428; sec. 412(e), Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681 (8 U.S.C. 1182 note); sec. 2(d), Pub. L. 106-95, 113 Stat. 1312, 1316 (8 U.S.C. 1182 note); 29 U.S.C. 49k; Pub. L. 107-296, 116 Stat. 2135, as amended; Pub. L. 109-423, 120 Stat. 2900; 8 CFR 214.2(h)(4)(i); 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(iii); and sec. 6, Pub. L. 115-218, 132 Stat. 1547 (48 U.S.C. 1806).
Subpart A issued under 8 CFR 214.2(h).
Subpart B issued under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a), 1184(c), and 1188; and 8 CFR 214.2(h).
Subpart E issued under 48 U.S.C. 1806.
Subparts F and G issued under 8 U.S.C. 1288(c) and (d); sec. 323(c), Pub. L. 103-206, 107 Stat. 2428; and 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, Pub. L. 114-74 at section 701.
Subparts H and I issued under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b) and (b)(1), 1182(n), and (t), and 1184(g) and (j); sec. 303(a)(8), Pub. L. 102-232, 105 Stat. 1733, 1748 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note); sec. 412(e), Pub. L. 105-277, 112 Stat. 2681; 8 CFR 214.2(h); and 28 U.S.C. 2461 note, Pub. L. 114-74 at section 701.
Subparts L and M issued under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(c) and 1182(m); sec. 2(d), Pub. L. 106-95, 113 Stat. 1312, 1316 (8 U.S.C. 1182 note); Pub. L. 109-423, 120 Stat. 2900; and 8 CFR 214.2(h).

# Source:
42 FR 45899, Sept. 13, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 655 appear at 71 FR 35521, 35522, June 21, 2006.
§ 655.0
Scope and purpose of part.
(a)
Subparts A, B, and C
—(1)
General.
Subparts A, B, and C of this part set out the procedures adopted by the Secretary to secure information sufficient to make factual determinations of: (i) Whether U.S. workers are available to perform temporary employment in the United States, for which an employer desires to employ nonimmigrant foreign workers, and (ii) whether the employment of aliens for such temporary work will adversely affect the wages or working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers. These factual determinations (or a determination that there are not sufficient facts to make one or both of these determinations) are required to carry out the policies of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), that a nonimmigrant alien worker not be admitted to fill a particular temporary job opportunity unless no qualifed U.S. worker is available to fill the job opportunity, and unless the employment of the foreign worker in the job opportunity will not adversely affect the wages or working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers.
(2)
The Secretary's determinations.
Before any factual determination can be made concerning the availability of U.S. workers to perform particular job opportunities, two steps must be taken. First, the minimum level of wages, terms, benefits, and conditions for the particular job opportunities, below which similarly employed U.S. workers would be adversely affected, must be established. (The regulations in this part establish such minimum levels for wages, terms, benefits, and conditions of employment.) Second, the wages, terms, benefits, and conditions offered and afforded to the aliens must be compared to the established minimum levels. If it is concluded that adverse effect would result, the ultimate determination of availability within the meaning of the INA cannot be made since U.S. workers cannot be expected to accept employment under conditions below the established minimum levels.
Florida Sugar Cane League, Inc.
v.
Usery,
531 F. 2d 299 (5th Cir. 1976).
Once a determination of no adverse effect has been made, the availability of U.S. workers can be tested only if U.S. workers are actively recruited through the offer of wages, terms, benefits, and conditions at least at the minimum level or the level offered to the aliens, whichever is higher. The regulations in this part set forth requirements for recruiting U.S. workers in accordance with this principle.
(3)
Construction.
This part and its subparts shall be construed to effectuate the purpose of the INA that U.S. workers rather than aliens be employed wherever possible.
Elton Orchards, Inc.
v.
Brennan,
508 F. 2d 493, 500 (1st Cir. 1974),
Flecha
v.
Quiros,
567 F. 2d 1154 (1st Cir. 1977). Where temporary alien workers are admitted, the terms and conditions of their employment must not result in a lowering of the
terms and conditions of domestic workers similarly employed,
Williams
v.
Usery,
531 F. 2d 305 (5th Cir. 1976);
Florida Sugar Cane League, Inc.
v.
Usery,
531 F. 2d 299 (5th Cir. 1976), and the job benefits extended to any U.S. workers shall be at least those extended to the alien workers.
(b)
Subparts D and E.
Subparts D and E of this part set forth the process by which health care facilities can file attestations with the Department of Labor for the purpose of employing or otherwise using nonimmigrant registered nurses under H-1A visas.
(c)
Subparts F and G.
Subparts F and G of this part set forth the process by which employers can file attestations with the Department of Labor for the purpose of employing alien crewmembers in longshore work under D-visas and enforcement provisions relating thereto.
(d)
Subparts H and I of this part.
Subpart H of this part sets forth the process by which employers can file labor condition applications (LCAs) with, and the requirements for obtaining approval from, the Department of Labor to temporarily employ the following three categories of nonimmigrants in the United States: (1) H-1B visas for temporary employment in specialty occupations or as fashion models of distinguished merit and ability; (2) H-1B1 visas for temporary employment in specialty occupations of nonimmigrant professionals from countries with which the United States has entered into certain agreements identified in section 214(g)(8)(A) of the INA; and (3) E-3 visas for nationals of the Commonwealth of Australia for temporary employment in specialty occupations. Subpart I of this part establishes the enforcement provisions that apply to the H-1B, H-1B1, and E-3 visa programs.
(e)
Subparts J and K of this part.
Subparts J and K of this part set forth the process by which employers can file attestations with the Department of Labor for the purpose of employing nonimmigrant alien students on F-visas in off-campus employment and enforcement provisions relating thereto.
[43 FR 10312, Mar. 10, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 20507, June 1, 1987; 55 FR 50510, Dec. 6, 1990; 56 FR 24667, May 30, 1991; 56 FR 54738, Oct. 22, 1991; 56 FR 56875, Nov. 6, 1991; 57 FR 1337, Jan. 13, 1992; 57 FR 40989, Sept. 8, 1992; 69 FR 68226, Nov. 23, 2004; 73 FR 19947, Apr. 11, 2008]
§ 655.00
Authority of the Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC) Administrator under subparts A, B, and C.
Pursuant to the regulations under this part, temporary labor certification determinations under subparts A, B, and C of this part are ordinarily made by the Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC) Administrator (OFLC Administrator) of the Employment and Training Administration. The OFLC Administrator will informally advise the employer or agent of the name of the official who will make determinations with respect to the application.
[71 FR 35518, June 21, 2006]

# Subpart A—Labor Certification Process for Temporary Non-Agricultural Employment in the United States (H-2B Workers)

# Source:
80 FR 24108, Apr. 29, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 655.1
Scope and purpose of this subpart.
Section 214(c)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1184(c)(1), requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to consult with appropriate agencies before authorizing the classification of aliens as H-2B workers. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) regulations at 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(iii)(D) designate the Secretary of Labor as an appropriate authority with whom DHS consults regarding the H-2B program, and specifies that the Secretary of Labor, in carrying out this consultative function, shall issue regulations regarding the issuance of temporary labor certifications. DHS regulations at 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(iv) further provide that an employer's petition to employ H-2B
nonimmigrant workers for temporary non-agricultural employment in the United States (U.S.), except for Guam, must be accompanied by an approved temporary labor certification from the Secretary of Labor (Secretary).
(a)
Purpose.
The temporary labor certification reflects a determination by the Secretary that:
(1) There are not sufficient U.S. workers who are qualified and who will be available to perform the temporary services or labor for which an employer desires to hire foreign workers, and that
(2) The employment of the H-2B worker(s) will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of U.S. workers similarly employed.
(b)
Scope.
This subpart sets forth the procedures governing the labor certification process for the temporary employment of nonimmigrant foreign workers in the H-2B nonimmigrant classification, as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b), section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b) of the INA. It also establishes obligations with respect to the terms and conditions of the temporary labor certification with which H-2B employers must comply, as well as their obligations to H-2B workers and workers in corresponding employment. Additionally, this subpart sets forth integrity measures for ensuring employers' continued compliance with the terms and conditions of the temporary labor certification.
§ 655.2
Authority of the agencies, offices, and divisions in the Department of Labor.
(a)
Authority and role of the Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC).
The Secretary has delegated authority to make determinations under this subpart, pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(iii)(D) and (h)(6)(iv), to the Assistant Secretary for the Employment and Training Administration (ETA), who in turn has delegated that authority to OFLC. Determinations on an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in the H-2B program are made by the Administrator, OFLC who, in turn, may delegate this responsibility to designated staff members, e.g., a Certifying Officer (CO).
(b)
Authority of the Wage and Hour Division (WHD).
Pursuant to its authority under section 214(c)(14)(B) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1184(c)(l4)(B), DHS has delegated to the Secretary certain investigatory and enforcement functions with respect to terms and conditions of employment in the H-2B program. The Secretary has, in turn, delegated that authority to WHD. The regulations governing WHD investigation and enforcement functions, including those related to the enforcement of temporary labor certifications, issued under this subpart, may be found in 29 CFR part 503.
(c)
Concurrent authority.
OFLC and WHD have concurrent authority to impose a debarment remedy under § 655.73 or under 29 CFR 503.24.
§ 655.3
Territory of Guam.
This subpart does not apply to temporary employment in the Territory of Guam, except that an employer who applies for a temporary labor certification for a job opportunity on Guam will need to obtain a prevailing wage from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) in accordance with § 655.10, subject to the transfer of authority to set the prevailing wage for a job opportunity on Guam to DOL in title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations. DOL does not certify to DHS the temporary employment of H-2B nonimmigrant foreign workers, or enforce compliance with the provisions of the H-2B visa program, in the Territory of Guam.
§ 655.4
Transition procedures.
(a) The NPWC shall continue to process an
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
submitted prior to April 29, 2015, in accordance with the prevailing wage methodology at 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, revised as of April 1, 2009, except for § 655.10(b)(2), see 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, revised as of April 1, 2014. Employers with a pending
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
who seek a prevailing wage based on an alternate wage source must submit a new
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination.
(b) The NPWC shall process an
Application for a Prevailing Wage Determination
submitted on or after April 29, 2015, in accordance with the wage
methodology established in § 655.10 of the final prevailing wage rule.
(c) The NPC shall continue to process an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
submitted prior to April 29, 2015, in accordance with 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, revised as of April 1, 2009.
(d) The NPC shall process an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
submitted on or after April 29, 2015, and that has a start date of need prior to October 1, 2015, as follows:
(1) Employers will be permitted to file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
job order with the NPC using the emergency situations provision at § 655.17. The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must include a signed and dated copy of the new Appendix B associated with the ETA Form 9142B containing the requisite program assurances and obligations under this rule. In the case of a job contractor filing as a joint employer with its employer-client, the NPC must receive a separate attachment containing the employer-client's business and contact information (
i.e.,
sections C and D of the ETA Form 9142B) as well as a separate signed and dated copy of the Appendix B for its employer-client, as required by § 655.19.
(2) The NPC will waive the regulatory filing timeframe under § 655.15 and process the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order in a manner consistent with the handling of applications under § 655.17 for emergency situations, including the recruitment of U.S. workers on an expedited basis, and make a determination as required by § 655.50. The recruitment of U.S. workers on an expedited basis will consist of placing a new job order with the SWA serving the area of intended employment that contains the job assurances and contents set forth in § 655.18 for a period of not less than 10 calendar days. In addition, employers who have not placed any newspaper advertisements under the rule published at 20 CFR part 655, subpart A, revised as of April 1, 2009. must place one newspaper advertisement, which may be published on any day of the week, meeting the advertising requirements of § 655.41, during the period of time the SWA is actively circulating the job order for intrastate clearance.
(3) If the Chicago NPC grants a temporary labor certification, the employer will receive an original certified ETA Form 9142B and a Final Determination letter. Upon receipt of the original certified ETA Form 9142B, the employer or its agent or attorney, if applicable, must complete the footer on the original Appendix B of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
retain the original Appendix B, and submit a signed copy of Appendix B, together with the original certified ETA Form 9142B directly to USCIS. Under the document retention requirements in § 655.56, the employer must retain a copy of the temporary labor certification and the original signed Appendix B.
(4) An employer who did not submit an
Application for a Prevailing Wage Determination
prior to April 29, 2015, but who has a start date of need prior to October 1, 2015 may submit a completed
Application for a Prevailing Wage Determination
to the NPC with its emergency
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
requesting a prevailing wage determination for the job opportunity. Upon receipt, the NPC will transmit, on behalf of the employer, a copy of the
Application for a Prevailing Wage Determination
to the NPWC for processing and issuance of a prevailing wage determination using the wage methodology established in § 655.10.
(e) The NPC shall process an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
submitted on or after April 29, 2015, and that has a start date of need after October 1, 2015, in accordance with all application filing requirements under this rule, and the employer must obtain a valid prevailing wage determination under the wage methodology established in § 655.10 prior to filing the job order with the SWA under § 655.16.
(f) Employers with a prevailing wage determination issued by the NPWC, or
who have a pending or granted
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on April 29, 2015, may seek a supplemental prevailing wage determination (SPWD) in order to obtain a prevailing wage based on an alternate wage source under this rule.
(1) The SPWD will apply during the validity period of the certification, except that such SPWD will be applicable only to those H-2B workers who are not yet employed in the certified position on the date of the issuance of the SPWD. The SPWD will not be applicable to H-2B workers who are already employed in the certified position at the time of the issuance of the SPWD, and it will not apply to U.S. workers recruited and hired under the original job order. For seafood employers whose workers' entry into the U.S. may be staggered under § 655.15(f), an SPWD issued under this provision will apply only to those H-2B workers who have not yet entered the U.S. and are therefore not yet employed in the certified position at the time of the issuance of the SPWD.
(2) In order to receive an SPWD under this provision, the employer must submit a new ETA Form 9141 to the NPWC that contains in Section E.a.5 Job Duties the original PWD tracking number (starting with P-400), the H-2B temporary employment certification application number (starting with H-400), and the words “Request for a Supplemental Prevailing Wage Determination.” Electronic submission through the iCERT Visa Portal System is preferred. Upon receipt of the request, the NPWC will issue to the employer, or if applicable, the employer's attorney or agent, an SPWD in an expedited manner and provide a copy to the Chicago NPC.
§ 655.5
Definition of terms.
For purposes of this subpart:
Act
means the Immigration and Nationality Act or INA, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
means a person within the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Administrator, Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC)
means the primary official of the Office of Foreign Labor Certification, ETA, or the Administrator's designee.
Administrator, Wage and Hour Division (WHD)
means the primary official of the WHD, or the Administrator's designee.
Agent
means:
(1) A legal entity or person who:
(i) Is authorized to act on behalf of an employer for temporary nonagricultural labor certification purposes;
(ii) Is not itself an employer, or a joint employer, as defined in this part with respect to a specific application; and
(iii) Is not an association or other organization of employers.
(2) No agent who is under suspension, debarment, expulsion, disbarment, or otherwise restricted from practice before any court, the Department of Labor, the Executive Office for Immigration Review under 8 CFR 1003.101, or DHS under 8 CFR 292.3 may represent an employer under this part.
Agricultural labor or services
means those duties and occupations defined in subpart B of this part.
Applicant
means a U.S. worker who is applying for a job opportunity for which an employer has filed an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
(ETA Form 9142B and the appropriate appendices).
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
means the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)-approved ETA Form 9142B and the appropriate appendices, a valid wage determination, as required by § 655.10, and a subsequently-filed U.S. worker recruitment report, submitted by an employer to secure a temporary labor certification determination from DOL.
Area of intended employment
means the geographic area within normal commuting distance of the place (worksite address) of the job opportunity for which the certification is sought. There is no rigid measure of distance that constitutes a normal commuting distance or normal commuting area, because there may be widely varying factual circumstances among different areas (e.g., average commuting times, barriers to reaching the worksite, or quality of the regional transportation network). If the place of
intended employment is within a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), including a multistate MSA, any place within the MSA is deemed to be within normal commuting distance of the place of intended employment. The borders of MSAs are not controlling in the identification of the normal commuting area; a location outside of an MSA may be within normal commuting distance of a location that is inside (e.g., near the border of) the MSA.
Area of substantial unemployment
means a contiguous area with a population of at least 10,000 in which there is an average unemployment rate equal to or exceeding 6.5 percent for the 12 months preceding the determination of such areas made by the ETA.
Attorney
means any person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State, possession, territory, or commonwealth of the U.S., or the District of Columbia. No attorney who is under suspension, debarment, expulsion, disbarment, or otherwise restricted from practice before any court, the Department of Labor, the Executive Office for Immigration Review under 8 CFR 1003.101, or DHS under 8 CFR 292.3 may represent an employer under this subpart.
Board of Alien Labor Certification Appeals (BALCA or Board)
means the permanent Board established by part 656 of this chapter, chaired by the Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ), and consisting of ALJs assigned to the Department of Labor and designated by the Chief ALJ to be members of BALCA.
Certifying Officer (CO)
means an OFLC official designated by the Administrator, OFLC to make determinations on applications under the H-2B program. The Administrator, OFLC is the National CO. Other COs may also be designated by the Administrator, OFLC to make the determinations required under this subpart.
Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ)
means the chief official of the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges or the Chief Administrative Law Judge's designee.
Corresponding employment
means:
(1) The employment of workers who are not H-2B workers by an employer that has a certified H-2B
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
when those workers are performing either substantially the same work included in the job order or substantially the same work performed by the H-2B workers, except that workers in the following two categories are not included in corresponding employment:
(i) Incumbent employees continuously employed by the H-2B employer to perform substantially the same work included in the job order or substantially the same work performed by the H-2B workers during the 52 weeks prior to the period of employment certified on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and who have worked or been paid for at least 35 hours in at least 48 of the prior 52 workweeks, and who have worked or been paid for an average of at least 35 hours per week over the prior 52 weeks, as demonstrated on the employer's payroll records, provided that the terms and working conditions of their employment are not substantially reduced during the period of employment covered by the job order. In determining whether this standard was met, the employer may take credit for any hours that were reduced by the employee voluntarily choosing not to work due to personal reasons such as illness or vacation; or
(ii) Incumbent employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement or an individual employment contract that guarantees both an offer of at least 35 hours of work each workweek and continued employment with the H-2B employer at least through the period of employment covered by the job order, except that the employee may be dismissed for cause.
(2) To qualify as corresponding employment, the work must be performed during the period of the job order, including any approved extension thereof.
Date of need
means the first date the employer requires services of the H-2B workers as listed on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
means the Federal Department having jurisdiction over certain immigration-related functions, acting through its component agencies, including USCIS.
Employee
means a person who is engaged to perform work for an employer, as defined under the general common law. Some of the factors relevant to the determination of employee status include: The hiring party's right to control the manner and means by which the work is accomplished; the skill required to perform the work; the source of the instrumentalities and tools for accomplishing the work; the location of the work; the hiring party's discretion over when and how long to work; and whether the work is part of the regular business of the hiring party. Other applicable factors may be considered and no one factor is dispositive. The terms employee and worker are used interchangeably in this subpart.
Employer
means a person (including any individual, partnership, association, corporation, cooperative, firm, joint stock company, trust, or other organization with legal rights and duties) that:
(1) Has a place of business (physical location) in the U.S. and a means by which it may be contacted for employment;
(2) Has an employer relationship (such as the ability to hire, pay, fire, supervise or otherwise control the work of employees) with respect to an H-2B worker or a worker in corresponding employment; and
(3) Possesses, for purposes of filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
a valid Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN).
Employer-client
means an employer that has entered into an agreement with a job contractor and that is not an affiliate, branch or subsidiary of the job contractor, under which the job contractor provides services or labor to the employer on a temporary basis and will not exercise substantial, direct day-to-day supervision and control in the performance of the services or labor to be performed other than hiring, paying and firing the workers.
Employment and Training Administration (ETA)
means the agency within the Department of Labor that includes OFLC and has been delegated authority by the Secretary to fulfill the Secretary's mandate under the DHS regulations for the administration and adjudication of an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and related functions.
Federal holiday
means a legal public holiday as defined at 5 U.S.C. 6103.
Full-time
means 35 or more hours of work per week.
H-2B Petition
means the DHS Form I-129
Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker,
with H Supplement or successor form or supplement, and accompanying documentation required by DHS for employers seeking to employ foreign persons as H-2B nonimmigrant workers
H-2B Registration
means the OMB-approved ETA Form 9155, submitted by an employer to register its intent to hire H-2B workers and to file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
H-2B worker
means any temporary foreign worker who is lawfully present in the U.S. and authorized by DHS to perform nonagricultural labor or services of a temporary or seasonal nature under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b), INA section 101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(b).
Job contractor
means a person, association, firm, or a corporation that meets the definition of an employer and that contracts services or labor on a temporary basis to one or more employers, which is not an affiliate, branch or subsidiary of the job contractor and where the job contractor will not exercise substantial, direct day-to-day supervision and control in the performance of the services or labor to be performed other than hiring, paying and firing the workers.
Job offer
means the offer made by an employer or potential employer of H-2B workers to both U.S. and H-2B workers describing all the material terms and conditions of employment, including those relating to wages, working conditions, and other benefits.
Job opportunity
means one or more openings for full-time employment with the petitioning employer within a specified area(s) of intended employment for which the petitioning employer is seeking workers.
Job order
means the document containing the material terms and conditions of employment relating to wages, hours, working conditions, worksite and other benefits, including obligations and assurances under 29 CFR part
503 and this subpart that is posted between and among the State Workforce Agencies (SWAs) on their job clearance systems.
Joint employment
means that where two or more employers each have sufficient definitional indicia of being an employer to be considered the employer of a worker, those employers will be considered to jointly employ that worker. Each employer in a joint employment relationship to a worker is considered a joint employer of that worker.
Layoff
means any involuntary separation of one or more U.S. employees without cause.
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA)
means a geographic entity defined by OMB for use by Federal statistical agencies in collecting, tabulating, and publishing Federal statistics. A metro area contains a core urban area of 50,000 or more population, and a micro area contains an urban core of at least 10,000 (but fewer than 50,000) population. Each metro or micro area consists of one or more counties and includes the counties containing the core urban area, as well as any adjacent counties that have a high degree of social and economic integration (as measured by commuting to work) with the urban core.
National Prevailing Wage Center (NPWC)
means that office within OFLC from which employers, agents, or attorneys who wish to file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
receive a prevailing wage determination (PWD).
NPWC Director
means the OFLC official to whom the Administrator, OFLC has delegated authority to carry out certain NPWC operations and functions.
National Processing Center (NPC)
means the office within OFLC which is charged with the adjudication of an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or other applications. For purposes of this subpart, the NPC receiving a request for an
H-2B Registration
and an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is the Chicago NPC whose address is published in the
Federal Register
.
NPC Director
means the OFLC official to whom the Administrator, OFLC has delegated authority for purposes of certain Chicago NPC operations and functions.
Non-agricultural labor and services
means any labor or services not considered to be agricultural labor or services as defined in subpart B of this part. It does not include the provision of services as members of the medical profession by graduates of medical schools.
Occupational employment statistics (OES) survey
means the program under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) that provides annual wage estimates for occupations at the State and MSA levels.
Offered wage
means the wage offered by an employer in an H-2B job order. The offered wage must equal or exceed the highest of the prevailing wage or Federal, State or local minimum wage.
Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC)
means the organizational component of the ETA that provides national leadership and policy guidance and develops regulations to carry out the Secretary's responsibilities, including determinations related to an employer's request for
H-2B Regis
tration,
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination,
or
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Prevailing wage determination (PWD)
means the prevailing wage for the position, as described in § 655.10, that is the subject of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The PWD is made on ETA Form 9141,
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination.
Professional athlete
means an individual who is employed as an athlete by:
(1) A team that is a member of an association of six or more professional sports teams whose total combined revenues exceed $10,000,000 per year, if the association governs the conduct of its members and regulates the contests and exhibitions in which its member teams regularly engage; or
(2) Any minor league team that is affiliated with such an association.
Seafood
is defined as fresh or saltwater finfish, crustaceans, other forms of aquatic animal life, including, but not limited to, alligator, frog, aquatic turtle, jellyfish, sea cucumber, and sea urchin and the roe of such animals, and all mollusks.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor, the chief official of the U.S. Department of Labor, or the Secretary's designee.
Secretary of Homeland Security
means the chief official of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or the Secretary of Homeland Security's designee.
Secretary of State
means the chief official of the U.S. Department of State or the Secretary of State's designee.
State Workforce Agency (SWA)
means a State government agency that receives funds under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
) to administer the State's public labor exchange activities.
Strike
means a concerted stoppage of work by employees as a result of a labor dispute, or any concerted slowdown or other concerted interruption of operation (including stoppage by reason of the expiration of a collective bargaining agreement).
Successor in interest
means:
(1) Where an employer has violated 29 CFR part 503, or this subpart, and has ceased doing business or cannot be located for purposes of enforcement, a successor in interest to that employer may be held liable for the duties and obligations of the violating employer in certain circumstances. The following factors, as used under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act, may be considered in determining whether an employer is a successor in interest; no one factor is dispositive, but all of the circumstances will be considered as a whole:
(i) Substantial continuity of the same business operations;
(ii) Use of the same facilities;
(iii) Continuity of the work force;
(iv) Similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(v) Similarity of supervisory personnel;
(vi) Whether the former management or owner retains a direct or indirect interest in the new enterprise;
(vii) Similarity in machinery, equipment, and production methods;
(viii) Similarity of products and services; and
(ix) The ability of the predecessor to provide relief.
(2) For purposes of debarment only, the primary consideration will be the personal involvement of the firm's ownership, management, supervisors, and others associated with the firm in the violation(s) at issue.
United States (U.S.)
means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI).
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
means the Federal agency within DHS that makes the determination under the INA whether to grant petitions filed by employers seeking H-2B workers to perform temporary non-agricultural work in the U.S.
United States worker (U.S. worker)
means a worker who is:
(1) A citizen or national of the U.S.;
(2) An alien who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the U.S., is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157, section 207 of the INA, is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158, section 208 of the INA, or is an alien otherwise authorized under the immigration laws to be employed in the U.S.; or
(3) An individual who is not an unauthorized alien (as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1324a(h)(3), section 274a(h)(3) of the INA) with respect to the employment in which the worker is engaging.
Wage and Hour Division (WHD)
means the agency within the Department of Labor with investigatory and law enforcement authority, as delegated from DHS, to carry out the provisions under 8 U.S.C. 1184(c), section 214(c) of the INA.
Wages
mean all forms of cash remuneration to a worker by an employer in payment for personal services.
§ 655.6
Temporary need.
(a) An employer seeking certification under this subpart must establish that its need for non-agricultural services or labor is temporary, regardless of whether the underlying job is permanent or temporary.
(b) The employer's need is considered temporary if justified to the CO as one of the following: A one-time occurrence; a seasonal need; a peakload
need; or an intermittent need, as defined by DHS regulations. Except where the employer's need is based on a one-time occurrence, the CO will deny a request for an
H-2B Registration
or an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
where the employer has a need lasting more than 9 months.
(c) A job contractor will only be permitted to seek certification if it can demonstrate through documentation its own temporary need, not that of its employer-client(s). A job contractor will only be permitted to file applications based on a seasonal need or a one-time occurrence.
(d) Nothing in this paragraph (d) is intended to limit the authority of the Secretary of Homeland Security, in the course of adjudicating an H-2B petition, to make the final determination as to whether a prospective H-2B employer's need is temporary in nature.
§ 655.7
Persons and entities authorized to file.
(a)
Persons authorized to file.
In addition to the employer applicant, a request for an
H-2B Registration
or an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may be filed by an attorney or agent, as defined in § 655.5.
(b)
Employer's signature required.
Regardless of whether the employer is represented by an attorney or agent, the employer is required to sign the
H-2B Registration
and
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and all documentation submitted to the Department of Labor.
§ 655.8
Requirements for agents.
An agent filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of an employer must provide:
(a) A copy of the agent agreement or other document demonstrating the agent's authority to represent the employer; and
(b) A copy of the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (MSPA) Farm Labor Contractor Certificate of Registration, if the agent is required under MSPA, at 29 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.,
to have such a certificate, identifying the specific farm labor contracting activities the agent is authorized to perform.
§ 655.9
Disclosure of foreign worker recruitment.
(a) The employer, and its attorney or agent, as applicable, must provide a copy of all agreements with any agent or recruiter whom it engages or plans to engage in the recruitment of H-2B workers under this
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
These agreements must contain the contractual prohibition against charging fees as set forth in § 655.20(p).
(b) The employer, and its attorney or agent, as applicable, must also provide the identity and location of all persons and entities hired by or working for the recruiter or agent referenced in paragraph (a) of this section, and any of the agents or employees of those persons and entities, to recruit prospective foreign workers for the H-2B job opportunities offered by the employer.
(c) The Department of Labor will maintain a publicly available list of agents and recruiters who are party to the agreements referenced in paragraph (a) of this section, as well as the persons and entities referenced in paragraph (b) of this section and the locations in which they are operating.

# Prefiling Procedures
§ 655.10
Determination of prevailing wage for temporary labor certification purposes.
(a)
Offered wage.
The employer must advertise the position to all potential workers at a wage at least equal to the prevailing wage obtained from the NPWC, or the Federal, State or local minimum wage, whichever is highest. The employer must offer and pay this wage (or higher) to both its H-2B workers and its workers in corresponding employment. The issuance of a PWD under this section does not permit an employer to pay a wage lower than the highest wage required by any applicable Federal, State or local law.
(b)
Determinations.
Prevailing wages shall be determined as follows:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, if the job opportunity is covered by a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) that was negotiated at arms' length between the union and the employer, the wage rate
set forth in the CBA is considered as not adversely affecting the wages of U.S. workers, that is, it is considered the “prevailing wage” for labor certification purposes.
(2) If the job opportunity is not covered by a CBA, the prevailing wage for labor certification purposes shall be the arithmetic mean of the wages of workers similarly employed in the area of intended employment using the wage component of the BLS Occupational Employment Statistics Survey (OES), unless the employer provides a survey acceptable to OFLC under paragraph (f) of this section.
(c)
Request for PWD.
(1) An employer must request and receive a PWD from the NPWC before filing the job order with the SWA.
(2) The PWD must be valid on the date the job order is posted.
(d)
Multiple worksites.
If the job opportunity involves multiple worksites within an area of intended employment and different prevailing wage rates exist for the opportunity within the area of intended employment, the prevailing wage is the highest applicable wage among all the worksites.
(e)
NPWC action.
The NPWC will provide the PWD, indicate the source, and return the Application for Prevailing Wage Determination (ETA Form 9141) with its endorsement to the employer.
(f)
Employer-provided survey.
(1) If the job opportunity is not covered by a CBA, or by a professional sports league's rules or regulations, the NPWC will consider a survey provided by the employer in making a Prevailing Wage Determination only if the employer submission demonstrates that the survey falls into one of the following categories:
(i) The survey was independently conducted and issued by a state, including any state agency, state college, or state university;
(ii) The survey is submitted for a geographic area where the OES does not collect data, or in a geographic area where the OES provides an arithmetic mean only at a national level for workers employed in the SOC;
(iii)(A) The job opportunity is not included within an occupational classification of the SOC system; or
(B) The job opportunity is within an occupational classification of the SOC system designated as an “all other” classification.
(2) The survey must provide the arithmetic mean of the wages of all workers similarly employed in the area of intended employment, except that if the survey provides a median but does not provide an arithmetic mean, the prevailing wage applicable to the employer's job opportunity shall be the median of the wages of workers similarly employed in the area of intended employment.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the geographic area surveyed may be expanded beyond the area of intended employment, but only as necessary to meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section. Any geographic expansion beyond the area of intended employment must include only those geographic areas that are contiguous to the area of intended employment.
(4) In each case where the employer submits a survey under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the employer must submit, concurrently with the ETA Form 9141, a completed Form ETA-9165 containing specific information about the survey methodology, including such items as sample size and source, sample selection procedures, and survey job descriptions, to allow a determination of the adequacy of the data provided and validity of the statistical methodology used in conducting the survey. In addition, the information provided by the employer must include the attestation that:
(i) The surveyor either made a reasonable, good faith attempt to contact all employers employing workers in the occupation and geographic area surveyed or conducted a randomized sampling of such employers;
(ii) The survey includes wage data from at least 30 workers and three employers;
(iii) If the survey is submitted under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section, the collection was administered by a bona fide third party. The following are not bona fide third parties under this rule: Any H-2B employer or any H-2B employer's agent, representative, or attorney;
(iv) The survey was conducted across industries that employ workers in the occupation; and
(v) The wage reported in the survey includes all types of pay, consistent with Form ETA-9165.
(5) The survey must be based upon recently collected data: The survey must be the most current edition of the survey and must be based on wages paid not more than 24 months before the date the survey is submitted for consideration.
(g)
Review of employer-provided surveys.
(1) If the NPWC finds an employer-provided survey not to be acceptable, the NPWC shall inform the employer in writing of the reasons the survey was not accepted.
(2) The employer, after receiving notification that the survey it provided for consideration is not acceptable, may request review under § 655.13.
(h)
Validity period.
The NPWC must specify the validity period of the prevailing wage, which in no event may be more than 365 days and no less than 90 days from the date that the determination is issued.
(i)
Professional athletes.
In computing the prevailing wage for a professional athlete when the job opportunity is covered by professional sports league rules or regulations, the wage set forth in those rules or regulations is considered the prevailing wage.
(j)
Retention of documentation.
The employer must retain the PWD for 3 years from the date of issuance or the date of a final determination on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
whichever is later, and submit it to a CO if requested by a Notice of Deficiency, described in § 655.31, or audit, as described in § 655.70, or to a WHD representative during a WHD investigation.
(k)
Guam.
The requirements of this section apply to any request filed for an H-2B job opportunity on Guam, subject to the transfer of authority to set the prevailing wage for a job opportunity on Guam to DOL in Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
[80 FR 24108, Apr. 29, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 24184, Apr. 29, 2015]
§ 655.11
Registration of H-2B employers.
All employers, including job contractors, that desire to hire H-2B workers must establish their need for services or labor is temporary by filing an
H-2B Registration
with the Chicago NPC.
(a)
Registration filing.
An employer must file an
H-2B Registration.
The
H-2B Registration
must be accompanied by documentation evidencing:
(1) The number of positions that will be sought in the first year of registration;
(2) The time period of need for the workers requested;
(3) That the nature of the employer's need for the services or labor to be performed is non-agricultural and temporary, and is justified as either a one-time occurrence, a seasonal need, a peakload need, or an intermittent need, as defined by DHS regulations and § 655.6 (or in the case of job contractors, a seasonal need or one-time occurrence); and
(4) For job contractors, the job contractor's own seasonal need or one-time occurrence, such as through the provision of payroll records.
(b)
Original signature.
The
H-2B Registration
must bear the original signature of the employer (and that of the employer's attorney or agent if applicable). If and when the
H-2B Registration
is permitted to be filed electronically, the employer will satisfy this requirement by signing the
H-2B Registration
as directed by the CO.
(c)
Timeliness of registration filing.
A completed request for an
H-2B Registration
must be received by no less than 120 calendar days and no more than 150 calendar days before the employer's date of need, except where the employer submits the
H-2B Registration
in support of an emergency filing under § 655.17.
(d)
Temporary need.
(1) The employer must establish that its need for non-agricultural services or labor is temporary, regardless of whether the underlying job is permanent or temporary, consistent with DHS regulations. A job contractor must also demonstrate through documentation its own seasonal need or one-time occurrence.
(2) The employer's need will be assessed in accordance with the definitions provided by the Secretary of Homeland Security and as further defined in § 655.6.
(e)
NPC review.
The CO will review the
H-2B Registration
and its accompanying documentation for completeness and make a determination based on the following factors:
(1) The job classification and duties qualify as non-agricultural;
(2) The employer's need for the services or labor to be performed is temporary in nature, and for job contractors, demonstration of the job contractor's own seasonal need or one-time occurrence;
(3) The number of worker positions and period of need are justified; and
(4) The request represents a bona fide job opportunity.
(f)
Mailing and postmark requirements.
Any notice or request pertaining to an
H-2B Registration
sent by the CO to an employer requiring a response will be mailed to the address provided on the
H-2B Registration
using methods to assure next day delivery, including electronic mail. The employer's response to the notice or request must be mailed using methods to assure next day delivery, including electronic mail, and be sent by the due date specified by the CO or by the next business day if the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday.
(g)
Request for information (RFI).
If the CO determines the
H-2B Registration
cannot be approved, the CO will issue an RFI. The RFI will be issued within 7 business days of the CO's receipt of the
H-2B Registration.
The RFI will:
(1) State the reason(s) why the
H-2B Registration
cannot be approved and what supplemental information or documentation is needed to correct the deficiencies;
(2) Specify a date, no later than 7 business days from the date the RFI is issued, by which the supplemental information or documentation must be sent by the employer;
(3) State that, upon receipt of a response to the RFI, the CO will review the
H-2B Registration
as well as any supplemental information and documentation and issue a Notice of Decision on the
H-2B Registration.
The CO may, at his or her discretion, issue one or more additional RFIs before issuing a Notice of Decision on the
H-2B Registration;
and
(4) State that failure to comply with an RFI, including not responding in a timely manner or not providing all required documentation within the specified timeframe, will result in a denial of the
H-2B Registration.
(h)
Notice of Decision.
The CO will notify the employer in writing of the final decision on the
H-2B Registration.
(1) Approved
H-2B Registration.
If the
H-2B Registration
is approved, the CO will send a Notice of Decision to the employer, and a copy to the employer's attorney or agent, if applicable. The Notice of Decision will notify the employer that it is eligible to seek H-2B workers in the occupational classification for the anticipated number of positions and period of need stated on the approved
H-2B Registration.
The CO may approve the
H-2B Registration
for a period of up to 3 consecutive years.
(2) Denied
H-2B Registration.
If the
H-2B Registration
is denied, the CO will send a Notice of Decision to the employer, and a copy to the employer's attorney or agent, if applicable. The Notice of Decision will:
(i) State the reason(s) why the
H-2B Registration
is denied;
(ii) Offer the employer an opportunity to request administrative review under § 655.61 within 10 business days from the date the Notice of Decision is issued and state that if the employer does not request administrative review within that period the denial is final.
(i)
Retention of documents.
All employers filing an
H-2B Registration
are required to retain any documents and records not otherwise submitted proving compliance with this subpart. Such records and documents must be retained for a period of 3 years from the date of certification of the last
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
supported by the
H-2B Registration,
if approved, or 3 years from the date the decision is issued if the
H-2B Registration
is denied or 3 years from the day the Department of Labor receives written notification from the
employer withdrawing its pending
H-2B Registration.
(j)
Transition period.
In order to allow OFLC to make the necessary changes to its program operations to accommodate the new registration process, OFLC will announce in the
Federal Register
a separate transition period for the registration process, and until that time, will continue to adjudicate temporary need during the processing of applications.
§ 655.12
Use of registration of H-2B employers.
(a) Upon approval of the
H-2B Registration,
the employer is authorized for the specified period of up to 3 consecutive years from the date the
H-2B Registration
is approved to file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
unless:
(1) The number of workers to be employed has increased by more than 20 percent (or 50 percent for employers requesting fewer than 10 workers) from the initial year;
(2) The dates of need for the job opportunity have changed by more than a total of 30 calendar days from the initial year for the entire period of need;
(3) The nature of the job classification and/or duties has materially changed; or
(4) The temporary nature of the employer's need for services or labor to be performed has materially changed.
(b) If any of the changes in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section apply, the employer must file a new
H-2B Registration
in accordance with § 655.11.
(c) The
H-2B Registration
may not be transferred from one employer to another unless the employer to which it is transferred is a successor in interest to the employer to which it was issued.
§ 655.13
Review of PWDs.
(a)
Request for review of PWDs.
Any employer desiring review of a PWD must make a written request for such review to the NPWC Director within 7 business days from the date the PWD is issued. The request for review must clearly identify the PWD for which review is sought; set forth the particular grounds for the request; and include any materials submitted to the NPWC for purposes of securing the PWD.
(b)
NPWC review.
Upon the receipt of the written request for review, the NPWC Director will review the employer's request and accompanying documentation, including any supplementary material submitted by the employer, and after review shall issue a Final Determination letter; that letter may:
(1) Affirm the PWD issued by the NPWC; or
(2) Modify the PWD.
(c)
Request for review by BALCA.
Any employer desiring review of the NPWC Director's decision on a PWD must make a written request for review of the determination by BALCA within 10 business days from the date the Final Determination letter is issued.
(1) The request for BALCA review must be in writing and addressed to the NPWC Director who made the final determinations. Upon receipt of a request for BALCA review, the NPWC will prepare an appeal file and submit it to BALCA.
(2) The request for review, statements, briefs, and other submissions of the parties must contain only legal arguments and may refer to only the evidence that was within the record upon which the decision on the PWD was based.
(3) BALCA will handle appeals in accordance with § 655.61.
§ 655.14
[Reserved]

# Application for Temporary Employment Certification Filing Procedures
§ 655.15
Application filing requirements.
All registered employers that desire to hire H-2B workers must file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with the NPC designated by the Administrator, OFLC. Except for employers that qualify for emergency procedures at § 655.17, employers that fail to register under the procedures in § 655.11 and/or that fail to submit a PWD obtained under § 655.10 will not be eligible to file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and their applications will be returned without review.
(a)
What to file.
A registered employer seeking H-2B workers must file a completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
(ETA Form 9142B and the appropriate appendices and valid PWD), a copy of the job order being submitted concurrently to the SWA serving the area of intended employment, as set forth in § 655.16, and copies of all contracts and agreements with any agent and/or recruiter, executed in connection with the job opportunities and all information required, as specified in §§ 655.8 and 655.9.
(b)
Timeliness.
A completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must be filed no more than 90 calendar days and no less than 75 calendar days before the employer's date of need.
(c)
Location and method of filing.
The employer must submit the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and all required supporting documentation to the NPC either electronically or by mail.
(d)
Original signature.
The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must bear the original signature of the employer (and that of the employer's authorized attorney or agent if the employer is so represented). If the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is filed electronically, the employer must satisfy this requirement by signing the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
as directed by the CO.
(e)
Requests for multiple positions.
Certification of more than one position may be requested on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
as long as all H-2B workers will perform the same services or labor under the same terms and conditions, in the same occupation, in the same area of intended employment, and during the same period of employment.
(f)
Separate applications.
Except as otherwise permitted by this paragraph (f), only one
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may be filed for worksite(s) within one area of intended employment for each job opportunity with an employer for each period of employment. Except where otherwise permitted under § 655.4, an association or other organization of employers is not permitted to file master applications on behalf of its employer-members under the H-2B program.
(1) Subject to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, if a petition for H-2B nonimmigrants filed by an employer in the seafood industry is granted, the employer may bring the nonimmigrants described in the petition into the United States at any time during the 120-day period beginning on the start date for which the employer is seeking the services of the nonimmigrants without filing another petition.
(2) An employer in the seafood industry may not bring H-2B nonimmigrants into the United States after the date that is 90 days after the start date for which the employer is seeking the services of the nonimmigrants unless the employer conducts new recruitment, that begins at least 45 days after, and ends before the 90th day after, the certified start date of need as follows:
(i) Completes a new assessment of the local labor market by—
(A) Listing the job orders in local newspapers on 2 separate Sundays; and
(B) Placing new job orders for the job opportunity with the State Workforce Agency serving the area of intended employment and posting the job opportunity at the place of employment for at least 10 days; and
(C) Offering the job to an equally or better qualified United States worker who—
(
1
) Applies for the job; and
(
2
) Will be available at the time and place of need.
(3) In order to comply with this provision, employers in the seafood industry must—
(
1
) Sign and date an attestation form stating the employer's compliance with this subparagraph. The attestation form is available at
http://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/form.cfm;
(
2
) Provide each H-2B nonimmigrant worker seeking admission to the United States a copy of the signed and dated attestation, with instructions that the worker must present the documentation upon request to the Department of State's consular officers when they apply for a visa and/or the Department of Homeland Security's U.S Customs and Border Protection officers when seeking admission to the United States. Without this attestation, an H-
2B nonimmigrant may be denied a visa or admission to the United States if seeking to enter at any time other than the start date stated in the petition. (The attestation is not necessary when filing an amended petition based on a worker who is being substituted in accordance with DHS regulations.) The attestation presented by an H-2B nonimmigrant worker must be the official attestation downloaded from OFLC's Web site and may not be altered or revised in any manner; and
(
3
) Retain the additional recruitment documentation, together with their prefiling recruitment documentation, for a period of 3 years from the date of certification, consistent with the document retention requirements under § 655.56. Seafood industry employers who conduct the required additional recruitment should not submit proof of the additional recruitment to the Office of Foreign Labor Certification.
(g)
One-time occurrence.
Where a one-time occurrence lasts longer than 1 year, the CO will instruct the employer on any additional recruitment requirements with respect to the continuing validity of the labor market test or offered wage obligation.
(h)
Information dissemination.
Information received in the course of processing a request for an
H-2B Registration,
an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or program integrity measures such as audits may be forwarded from OFLC to WHD, or any other Federal agency as appropriate, for investigative and/or enforcement purposes.
§ 655.16
Filing of the job order at the SWA.
(a)
Submission of the job order.
(1) The employer must submit the job order to the SWA serving the area of intended employment at the same time it submits the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and a copy of the job order to the NPC in accordance with § 655.15. If the job opportunity is located in more than one State within the same area of intended employment, the employer may submit the job order to any one of the SWAs having jurisdiction over the anticipated worksites, but must identify the receiving SWA on the copy of the job order submitted to the NPC with its
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The employer must inform the SWA that the job order is being placed in connection with a concurrently submitted
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for H-2B workers.
(2) In addition to complying with State-specific requirements governing job orders, the job order submitted to the SWA must satisfy the requirements set forth in § 655.18.
(b)
SWA review of the job order.
The SWA must review the job order and ensure that it complies with criteria set forth in § 655.18. If the SWA determines that the job order does not comply with the applicable criteria, the SWA must inform the CO at the NPC of the noted deficiencies within 6 business days of receipt of the job order.
(c)
Intrastate and interstate clearance.
Upon receipt of the Notice of Acceptance, as described in § 655.33, the SWA must promptly place the job order in intrastate clearance, and in interstate clearance by providing a copy of the job order to other states as directed by the CO.
(d)
Duration of job order posting and SWA referral of U.S. workers.
Upon receipt of the Notice of Acceptance, any SWA in receipt of the employer's job order must keep the job order on its active file until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.40(c), and must refer to the employer in a manner consistent with § 655.47 all qualified U.S. workers who apply for the job opportunity or on whose behalf a job application is made.
(e)
Amendments to a job order.
The employer may amend the job order at any time before the CO makes a final determination, in accordance with procedures set forth in § 655.35.
§ 655.17
Emergency situations.
(a)
Waiver of time period.
The CO may waive the time period(s) for filing an
H-2B Registration
and/or an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for employers that have good and substantial cause, provided that the CO has sufficient time to thoroughly test the domestic labor market on an expedited basis and to make a final determination as required by § 655.50.
(b)
Employer requirements.
The employer requesting a waiver of the required time period(s) must submit to the NPC a request for a waiver of the time period requirement, a completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and the proposed job order identifying the SWA serving the area of intended employment, and must otherwise meet the requirements of § 655.15. If the employer did not previously apply for an
H-2B Registration,
the employer must also submit a completed
H-2B Registration
with all supporting documentation, as required by § 655.11. If the employer did not previously apply for a PWD, the employer must also submit a completed PWD request. The employer's waiver request must include detailed information describing the good and substantial cause that has necessitated the waiver request. Good and substantial cause may include, but is not limited to, the substantial loss of U.S. workers due to Acts of God, or a similar unforeseeable man-made catastrophic event (such as an oil spill or controlled flooding) that is wholly outside of the employer's control, unforeseeable changes in market conditions, or pandemic health issues. A denial of a previously submitted
H-2B Registration
in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 655.11 does not constitute good and substantial cause necessitating a waiver under this section.
(c)
Processing of emergency applications.
The CO will process the emergency
H-2B Registration
and/or
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order in a manner consistent with the provisions of this subpart and make a determination on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with § 655.50. If the CO grants the waiver request, the CO will forward a Notice of Acceptance and the approved job order to the SWA serving the area of intended employment identified by the employer in the job order. If the CO determines that the certification cannot be granted because, under paragraph (a) of this section, the request for emergency filing is not justified and/or there is not sufficient time to make a determination of temporary need or ensure compliance with the criteria for certification contained in § 655.51, the CO will send a Final Determination letter to the employer in accordance with § 655.53.
§ 655.18
Job order assurances and contents.
(a)
General.
Each job order placed in connection with an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must at a minimum include the information contained in paragraph (b) of this section. In addition, by submitting the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
an employer agrees to comply with the following assurances with respect to each job order:
(1)
Prohibition against preferential treatment.
The employer's job order must offer to U.S. workers no less than the same benefits, wages, and working conditions that the employer is offering, intends to offer, or will provide to H-2B workers. Job offers may not impose on U.S. workers any restrictions or obligations that will not be imposed on the employer's H-2B workers. This does not relieve the employer from providing to H-2B workers at least the minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions which must be offered to U.S. workers consistent with this section.
(2)
Bona fide job requirements.
Each job qualification and requirement must be listed in the job order and must be bona fide and consistent with the normal and accepted qualifications and requirements imposed by non-H-2B employers in the same occupation and area of intended employment.
(b)
Contents.
In addition to complying with the assurances in paragraph (a) of this section, the employer's job order must meet the following requirements:
(1) State the employer's name and contact information;
(2) Indicate that the job opportunity is a temporary, full-time position, including the total number of job openings the employer intends to fill;
(3) Describe the job opportunity for which certification is sought with sufficient information to apprise U.S. workers of the services or labor to be performed, including the duties, the minimum education and experience requirements, the work hours and days,
and the anticipated start and end dates of the job opportunity;
(4) Indicate the geographic area of intended employment with enough specificity to apprise applicants of any travel requirements and where applicants will likely have to reside to perform the services or labor;
(5) Specify the wage that the employer is offering, intends to offer, or will provide to H-2B workers, or, in the event that there are multiple wage offers, the range of wage offers, and ensure that the wage offer equals or exceeds the highest of the prevailing wage or the Federal, State, or local minimum wage;
(6) If applicable, specify that overtime will be available to the worker and the wage offer(s) for working any overtime hours;
(7) If applicable, state that on-the-job training will be provided to the worker;
(8) State that the employer will use a single workweek as its standard for computing wages due;
(9) Specify the frequency with which the worker will be paid, which must be at least every 2 weeks or according to the prevailing practice in the area of intended employment, whichever is more frequent;
(10) If the employer provides the worker with the option of board, lodging, or other facilities, including fringe benefits, or intends to assist workers to secure such lodging, disclose the provision and cost of the board, lodging, or other facilities, including fringe benefits or assistance to be provided;
(11) State that the employer will make all deductions from the worker's paycheck required by law. Specify any deductions the employer intends to make from the worker's paycheck which are not required by law, including, if applicable, any deductions for the reasonable cost of board, lodging, or other facilities;
(12) Detail how the worker will be provided with or reimbursed for transportation and subsistence from the place from which the worker has come to work for the employer, whether in the U.S. or abroad, to the place of employment, if the worker completes 50 percent of the period of employment covered by the job order, consistent with § 655.20(j)(1)(i);
(13) State that the employer will provide or pay for the worker's cost of return transportation and daily subsistence from the place of employment to the place from which the worker, disregarding intervening employment, departed to work for the employer, if the worker completes the certified period of employment or is dismissed from employment for any reason by the employer before the end of the period, consistent with § 655.20(j)(1)(ii);
(14) If applicable, state that the employer will provide daily transportation to and from the worksite;
(15) State that the employer will reimburse the H-2B worker in the first workweek for all visa, visa processing, border crossing, and other related fees, including those mandated by the government, incurred by the H-2B worker (but need not include passport expenses or other charges primarily for the benefit of the worker);
(16) State that the employer will provide to the worker, without charge or deposit charge, all tools, supplies, and equipment required to perform the duties assigned, in accordance with § 655.20(k);
(17) State the applicability of the three-fourths guarantee, offering the worker employment for a total number of work hours equal to at least three-fourths of the workdays of each 12-week period, if the period of employment covered by the job order is 120 or more days, or each 6-week period, if the period of employment covered by the job order is less than 120 days, in accordance with § 655.20(f); and
(18) Instruct applicants to inquire about the job opportunity or send applications, indications of availability, and/or resumes directly to the nearest office of the SWA in the State in which the advertisement appeared and include the SWA contact information.
§ 655.19
Job contractor filing requirements.
(a) Provided that a job contractor and any employer-client are joint employers, a job contractor may submit an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of itself and that employer-client.
(b) A job contractor must have separate contracts with each different employer-client. Each contract or agreement may support only one
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for each employer-client job opportunity within a single area of intended employment.
(c) Either the job contractor or its employer-client may submit an ETA Form 9141,
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination,
describing the job opportunity to the NPWC. However, each of the joint employers is separately responsible for ensuring that the wage offer listed on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
ETA Form 9142B, and related recruitment at least equals the prevailing wage rate determined by the NPWC and that all other wage obligations are met.
(d)(1) A job contractor that is filing as a joint employer with its employer-client must submit to the NPC a completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
ETA Form 9142, that clearly identifies the joint employers (the job contractor and its employer-client) and the employment relationship (including the actual worksite), in accordance with the instructions provided by the Department of Labor. The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must bear the original signature of the job contractor and the employer-client and be accompanied by the contract or agreement establishing the employers' relationship related to the workers sought.
(2) By signing the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
each employer independently attests to the conditions of employment required of an employer participating in the H-2B program and assumes full responsibility for the accuracy of the representations made in the application and for all of the responsibilities of an employer in the H-2B program.
(e)(1) Either the job contractor or its employer-client may place the required job order and conduct recruitment as described in §§ 655.16 and 655.43 through 655.46. Also, either one of the joint employers may assume responsibility for interviewing applicants. However, both of the joint employers must sign the recruitment report that is submitted to the NPC with the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
ETA Form 9142B.
(e)(1) Either the job contractor or its employer-client may place the required job order and conduct recruitment as described in § 655.16 and §§ 655.42 through 655.46. Also, either one of the joint employers may assume responsibility for interviewing applicants. However, both of the joint employers must sign the recruitment report that is submitted to the NPC with the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
ETA Form 9142B.
(2) The job order and all recruitment conducted by joint employers must satisfy the content requirements identified in §§ 655.18 and 655.41. Additionally, in order to fully apprise applicants of the job opportunity and avoid potential confusion inherent in a job opportunity involving two employers, joint employer recruitment must clearly identify both employers (the job contractor and its employer-client) by name and must clearly identify the worksite location(s) where workers will perform labor or services.
(3)(i) Provided that all of the employer-clients' job opportunities are in the same occupation and area of intended employment and have the same requirements and terms and conditions of employment, including dates of employment, a job contractor may combine more than one of its joint employer employer-clients' job opportunities in a single advertisement. Each advertisement must fully apprise potential workers of the job opportunity available with each employer-client and otherwise satisfy the advertising content requirements required for all H-2B-related advertisements, as identified in § 655.41. Such a shared advertisement must clearly identify the job contractor by name, the joint employment relationship, and the number of workers sought for each job opportunity, identified by employer-client name and location (e.g., 5 openings with Employer-Client 1 (worksite location), 3 openings with Employer-Client 2 (worksite location)).
(ii) In addition, the advertisement must contain the following statement: “Applicants may apply for any or all of the jobs listed. When applying, please
identify the job(s) (by company and work location) you are applying to for the entire period of employment specified.” If an applicant fails to identify one or more specific work location(s), that applicant is presumed to have applied to all work locations listed in the advertisement.
(f) If an application for joint employers is approved, the NPC will issue one certification and send it to the job contractor. In order to ensure notice to both employers, a courtesy copy of the certification cover letter will be sent to the employer-client. (g) When submitting a certified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
to USCIS, the job contractor should submit the complete ETA Form 9142B containing the original signatures of both the job contractor and employer-client.
[42 FR 45899, Sept. 13, 1977, as amended at 84 FR 62446, Nov. 15, 2019]

# Assurances and Obligations
§ 655.20
Assurances and obligations of H-2B employers.
An employer employing H-2B workers and/or workers in corresponding employment under an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
has agreed as part of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
that it will abide by the following conditions with respect to its H-2B workers and any workers in corresponding employment:
(a)
Rate of pay.
(1) The offered wage in the job order equals or exceeds the highest of the prevailing wage or Federal minimum wage, State minimum wage, or local minimum wage. The employer must pay at least the offered wage, free and clear, during the entire period of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
granted by OFLC.
(2) The offered wage is not based on commissions, bonuses, or other incentives, including paying on a piece-rate basis, unless the employer guarantees a wage earned every workweek that equals or exceeds the offered wage.
(3) If the employer requires one or more minimum productivity standards of workers as a condition of job retention, the standards must be specified in the job order and the employer must demonstrate that they are normal and usual for non-H-2B employers for the same occupation in the area of intended employment.
(4) An employer that pays on a piece-rate basis must demonstrate that the piece rate is no less than the normal rate paid by non-H-2B employers to workers performing the same activity in the area of intended employment. The average hourly piece rate earnings must result in an amount at least equal to the offered wage. If the worker is paid on a piece rate basis and at the end of the workweek the piece rate does not result in average hourly piece rate earnings during the workweek at least equal to the amount the worker would have earned had the worker been paid at the offered hourly wage, then the employer must supplement the worker's pay at that time so that the worker's earnings are at least as much as the worker would have earned during the workweek if the worker had instead been paid at the offered hourly wage for each hour worked.
(b)
Wages free and clear.
The payment requirements for wages in this section will be satisfied by the timely payment of such wages to the worker either in cash or negotiable instrument payable at par. The payment must be made finally and unconditionally and “free and clear.” The principles applied in determining whether deductions are reasonable and payments are received free and clear and the permissibility of deductions for payments to third persons are explained in more detail in 29 CFR part 531.
(c)
Deductions.
The employer must make all deductions from the worker's paycheck required by law. The job order must specify all deductions not required by law which the employer will make from the worker's pay; any such deductions not disclosed in the job order are prohibited. The wage payment requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are not met where unauthorized deductions, rebates, or refunds reduce the wage payment made to the worker below the minimum amounts required by the offered wage or where the worker fails to receive such amounts free and clear because the worker “kicks back” directly or indirectly to the employer or to another
person for the employer's benefit the whole or part of the wages delivered to the worker. Authorized deductions are limited to: Those required by law, such as taxes payable by workers that are required to be withheld by the employer and amounts due workers which the employer is required by court order to pay to another; deductions for the reasonable cost or fair value of board, lodging, and facilities furnished; and deductions of amounts which are authorized to be paid to third persons for the worker's account and benefit through his or her voluntary assignment or order or which are authorized by a collective bargaining agreement with bona fide representatives of workers which covers the employer. Deductions for amounts paid to third persons for the worker's account and benefit which are not so authorized or are contrary to law or from which the employer, agent or recruiter including any agents or employees of these entities, or any affiliated person derives any payment, rebate, commission, profit, or benefit directly or indirectly, may not be made if they reduce the actual wage paid to the worker below the offered wage indicated on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(d)
Job opportunity is full-time.
The job opportunity is a full-time temporary position, consistent with § 655.5, and the employer must use a single workweek as its standard for computing wages due. An employee's workweek must be a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours—seven consecutive 24-hour periods. It need not coincide with the calendar week but may begin on any day and at any hour of the day.
(e)
Job qualifications and requirements.
Each job qualification and requirement must be listed in the job order and must be bona fide and consistent with the normal and accepted qualifications and requirements imposed by non-H-2B employers in the same occupation and area of intended employment. The employer's job qualifications and requirements imposed on U.S. workers must not be less favorable than the qualifications and requirements that the employer is imposing or will impose on H-2B workers. A qualification means a characteristic that is necessary to the individual's ability to perform the job in question. A requirement means a term or condition of employment which a worker is required to accept in order to obtain the job opportunity. The CO may require the employer to submit documentation to substantiate the appropriateness of any job qualification and/or requirement specified in the job order.
(f)
Three-fourths guarantee.
(1) The employer must guarantee to offer the worker employment for a total number of work hours equal to at least three-fourths of the workdays in each 12-week period (each 6-week period if the period of employment covered by the job order is less than 120 days) beginning with the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment or the advertised first date of need, whichever is later, and ending on the expiration date specified in the job order or in its extensions, if any. See the exception in paragraph (y) of this section.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (f) a workday means the number of hours in a workday as stated in the job order. The employer must offer a total number of hours of work to ensure the provision of sufficient work to reach the three-fourths guarantee in each 12-week period (each 6-week period if the period of employment covered by the job order is less than 120 days) during the work period specified in the job order, or during any modified job order period to which the worker and employer have mutually agreed and that has been approved by the CO.
(3) In the event the worker begins working later than the specified beginning date the guarantee period begins with the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment, and continues until the last day during which the job order and all extensions thereof are in effect.
(4) The 12-week periods (6-week periods if the period of employment covered by the job order is less than 120 days) to which the guarantee applies are based upon the workweek used by the employer for pay purposes. The first 12-week period (or 6-week period, as appropriate) also includes any partial workweek, if the first workday after the worker's arrival at the place
of employment is not the beginning of the employer's workweek, with the guaranteed number of hours increased on a pro rata basis (thus, the first period may include up to 12 weeks and 6 days (or 6 weeks and 6 days, as appropriate)). The final 12-week period (or 6-week period, as appropriate) includes any time remaining after the last full 12-week period (or 6-week period) ends, and thus may be as short as 1 day, with the guaranteed number of hours decreased on a pro rata basis.
(5) Therefore, if, for example, a job order is for a 32-week period (a period greater than 120 days), during which the normal workdays and work hours for the workweek are specified as 5 days a week, 7 hours per day, the worker would have to be guaranteed employment for at least 315 hours in the first 12-week period (12 weeks × 35 hours/week = 420 hours × 75 percent = 315), at least 315 hours in the second 12-week period, and at least 210 hours (8 weeks × 35 hours/week = 280 hours × 75 percent = 210) in the final partial period. If the job order is for a 16-week period (less than 120 days), during which the normal workdays and work hours for the workweek are specified as 5 days a week, 7 hours per day, the worker would have to be guaranteed employment for at least 157.5 hours (6 weeks × 35 hours/week = 210 hours × 75 percent = 157.5) in the first 6-week period, at least 157.5 hours in the second 6-week period, and at least 105 hours (4 weeks × 35 hours/week = 140 hours × 75 percent = 105) in the final partial period.
(6) If the worker is paid on a piece rate basis, the employer must use the worker's average hourly piece rate earnings or the offered wage, whichever is higher, to calculate the amount due under the guarantee.
(7) A worker may be offered more than the specified hours of work on a single workday. For purposes of meeting the guarantee, however, the worker will not be required to work for more than the number of hours specified in the job order for a workday. The employer, however, may count all hours actually worked in calculating whether the guarantee has been met. If during any 12-week period (6-week period if the period of employment covered by the job order is less than 120 days) during the period of the job order the employer affords the U.S. or H-2B worker less employment than that required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the employer must pay such worker the amount the worker would have earned had the worker, in fact, worked for the guaranteed number of days. An employer has not met the work guarantee if the employer has merely offered work on three-fourths of the workdays in an 12-week period (or 6-week period, as appropriate) if each workday did not consist of a full number of hours of work time as specified in the job order.
(8) Any hours the worker fails to work, up to a maximum of the number of hours specified in the job order for a workday, when the worker has been offered an opportunity to work in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and all hours of work actually performed (including voluntary work over 8 hours in a workday), may be counted by the employer in calculating whether each 12-week period (or 6-week period, as appropriate) of guaranteed employment has been met. An employer seeking to calculate whether the guaranteed number of hours has been met must maintain the payroll records in accordance with this part.
(g)
Impossibility of fulfillment.
If, before the expiration date specified in the job order, the services of the worker are no longer required for reasons beyond the control of the employer due to fire, weather, or other Act of God, or similar unforeseeable man-made catastrophic event (such as an oil spill or controlled flooding) that is wholly outside the employer's control that makes the fulfillment of the job order impossible, the employer may terminate the job order with the approval of the CO. In the event of such termination of a job order, the employer must fulfill a three-fourths guarantee, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, for the time that has elapsed from the start date listed in the job order or the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment, whichever is later, to the time of its termination. The employer must make efforts to transfer the H-2B worker or worker in corresponding employment to other
comparable employment acceptable to the worker and consistent with the INA, as applicable. If a transfer is not effected, the employer must return the worker, at the employer's expense, to the place from which the worker (disregarding intervening employment) came to work for the employer, or transport the worker to the worker's next certified H-2B employer, whichever the worker prefers.
(h)
Frequency of pay.
The employer must state in the job order the frequency with which the worker will be paid, which must be at least every 2 weeks or according to the prevailing practice in the area of intended employment, whichever is more frequent. Employers must pay wages when due.
(i)
Earnings statements.
(1) The employer must keep accurate and adequate records with respect to the workers' earnings, including but not limited to: Records showing the nature, amount and location(s) of the work performed; the number of hours of work offered each day by the employer (broken out by hours offered both in accordance with and over and above the three-fourths guarantee in paragraph (f) of this section); the hours actually worked each day by the worker; if the number of hours worked by the worker is less than the number of hours offered, the reason(s) the worker did not work; the time the worker began and ended each workday; the rate of pay (both piece rate and hourly, if applicable); the worker's earnings per pay period; the worker's home address; and the amount of and reasons for any and all deductions taken from or additions made to the worker's wages.
(2) The employer must furnish to the worker on or before each payday in one or more written statements the following information:
(i) The worker's total earnings for each workweek in the pay period;
(ii) The worker's hourly rate and/or piece rate of pay;
(iii) For each workweek in the pay period the hours of employment offered to the worker (showing offers in accordance with the three-fourths guarantee as determined in paragraph (f) of this section, separate from any hours offered over and above the guarantee);
(iv) For each workweek in the pay period the hours actually worked by the worker;
(v) An itemization of all deductions made from or additions made to the worker's wages;
(vi) If piece rates are used, the units produced daily;
(vii) The beginning and ending dates of the pay period; and
(viii) The employer's name, address and FEIN.
(j)
Transportation and visa fees.
(1)(i)
Transportation to the place of employment.
The employer must provide or reimburse the worker for transportation and subsistence from the place from which the worker has come to work for the employer, whether in the U.S. or abroad, to the place of employment if the worker completes 50 percent of the period of employment covered by the job order (not counting any extensions). The employer may arrange and pay for the transportation and subsistence directly, advance at a minimum the most economical and reasonable common carrier cost of the transportation and subsistence to the worker before the worker's departure, or pay the worker for the reasonable costs incurred by the worker. When it is the prevailing practice of non-H-2B employers in the occupation in the area to do so or when the employer extends such benefits to similarly situated H-2B workers, the employer must advance the required transportation and subsistence costs (or otherwise provide them) to workers in corresponding employment who are traveling to the employer's worksite. The amount of the transportation payment must be no less (and is not required to be more) than the most economical and reasonable common carrier transportation charges for the distances involved. The amount of the daily subsistence must be at least the amount permitted in § 655.173. Where the employer will reimburse the reasonable costs incurred by the worker, it must keep accurate and adequate records of: The costs of transportation and subsistence incurred by the worker; the amount reimbursed; and the date(s) of reimbursement. Note that the FLSA applies independently of
the H-2B requirements and imposes obligations on employers regarding payment of wages.
(ii)
Transportation from the place of employment.
If the worker completes the period of employment covered by the job order (not counting any extensions), or if the worker is dismissed from employment for any reason by the employer before the end of the period, and the worker has no immediate subsequent H-2B employment, the employer must provide or pay at the time of departure for the worker's cost of return transportation and daily subsistence from the place of employment to the place from which the worker, disregarding intervening employment, departed to work for the employer. If the worker has contracted with a subsequent employer that has not agreed in the job order to provide or pay for the worker's transportation from the employer's worksite to such subsequent employer's worksite, the employer must provide or pay for that transportation and subsistence. If the worker has contracted with a subsequent employer that has agreed in the job order to provide or pay for the worker's transportation from the employer's worksite to such subsequent employer's worksite, the subsequent employer must provide or pay for such expenses.
(iii)
Employer-provided transportation.
All employer-provided transportation must comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations and must provide, at a minimum, the same vehicle safety standards, driver licensure requirements, and vehicle insurance as required under 49 CFR parts 390, 393, and 396.
(iv)
Disclosure.
All transportation and subsistence costs that the employer will pay must be disclosed in the job order.
(2) The employer must pay or reimburse the worker in the first workweek for all visa, visa processing, border crossing, and other related fees (including those mandated by the government) incurred by the H-2B worker, but not for passport expenses or other charges primarily for the benefit of the worker.
(k)
Employer-provided items.
The employer must provide to the worker, without charge or deposit charge, all tools, supplies, and equipment required to perform the duties assigned.
(l)
Disclosure of job order.
The employer must provide to an H-2B worker outside of the U.S. no later than the time at which the worker applies for the visa, or to a worker in corresponding employment no later than on the day work commences, a copy of the job order including any subsequent approved modifications. For an H-2B worker changing employment from an H-2B employer to a subsequent H-2B employer, the copy must be provided no later than the time an offer of employment is made by the subsequent H-2B employer. The disclosure of all documents required by this paragraph (l) must be provided in a language understood by the worker, as necessary or reasonable.
(m)
Notice of worker rights.
The employer must post and maintain in a conspicuous location at the place of employment a poster provided by the Department of Labor that sets out the rights and protections for H-2B workers and workers in corresponding employment. The employer must post the poster in English. To the extent necessary, the employer must request and post additional posters, as made available by the Department of Labor, in any language common to a significant portion of the workers if they are not fluent in English.
(n)
No unfair treatment.
The employer has not and will not intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge or in any manner discriminate against, and has not and will not cause any person to intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in any manner discriminate against, any person who has:
(1) Filed a complaint under or related to 8 U.S.C. 1184(c), section 214(c) of the INA, 29 CFR part 503, or this subpart, or any other regulation promulgated thereunder;
(2) Instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related to 8 U.S.C. 1184(c), section 214(c) of the INA, 29 CFR part 503, or this subpart or any other regulation promulgated thereunder;
(3) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or related to 8 U.S.C. 1184(c), section 214(c) of the INA,
29 CFR part 503, or this subpart or any other regulation promulgated thereunder;
(4) Consulted with a workers' center, community organization, labor union, legal assistance program, or an attorney on matters related to 8 U.S.C. 1184(c), section 214(c) of the INA, 29 CFR part 503, or this subpart or any other regulation promulgated thereunder; or
(5) Exercised or asserted on behalf of himself/herself or others any right or protection afforded by 8 U.S.C. 1184(c), section 214(c) of the INA, 29 CFR part 503, or this subpart or any other regulation promulgated thereunder.
(o)
Comply with the prohibitions against employees paying fees.
The employer and its attorney, agents, or employees have not sought or received payment of any kind from the worker for any activity related to obtaining H-2B labor certification or employment, including payment of the employer's attorney or agent fees, application and
H-2B Petition
fees, recruitment costs, or any fees attributed to obtaining the approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
For purposes of this paragraph (o), payment includes, but is not limited to, monetary payments, wage concessions (including deductions from wages, salary, or benefits), kickbacks, bribes, tributes, in-kind payments, and free labor. All wages must be paid free and clear. This provision does not prohibit employers or their agents from receiving reimbursement for costs that are the responsibility and primarily for the benefit of the worker, such as government-required passport fees.
(p)
Contracts with third parties to comply with prohibitions.
The employer must contractually prohibit in writing any agent or recruiter (or any agent or employee of such agent or recruiter) whom the employer engages, either directly or indirectly, in recruitment of H-2B workers to seek or receive payments or other compensation from prospective workers. The contract must include the following statement: “Under this agreement, [name of agent, recruiter] and any agent of or employee of [name of agent or recruiter] are prohibited from seeking or receiving payments from any prospective employee of [employer name] at any time, including before or after the worker obtains employment. Payments include but are not limited to, any direct or indirect fees paid by such employees for recruitment, job placement, processing, maintenance, attorneys' fees, agent fees, application fees, or petition fees.”
(q)
Prohibition against preferential treatment of foreign workers.
The employer's job offer must offer to U.S. workers no less than the same benefits, wages, and working conditions that the employer is offering, intends to offer, or will provide to H-2B workers. Job offers may not impose on U.S. workers any restrictions or obligations that will not be imposed on the employer's H-2B workers. This does not relieve the employer from providing to H-2B workers at least the minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions which must be offered to U.S. workers consistent with this section.
(r)
Non-discriminatory hiring practices.
The job opportunity is, and through the period set forth in paragraph (t) of this section must continue to be, open to any qualified U.S. worker regardless of race, color, national origin, age, sex, religion, disability, or citizenship. Rejections of any U.S. workers who applied or apply for the job must only be for lawful, job-related reasons, and those not rejected on this basis have been or will be hired. In addition, the employer has and will continue to retain records of all hired workers and rejected applicants as required by § 655.56.
(s)
Recruitment requirements.
The employer must conduct all required recruitment activities, including any additional employer-conducted recruitment activities as directed by the CO, and as specified in §§ 655.40 through 655.46.
(t)
Continuing requirement to hire U.S. workers.
The employer has and will continue to cooperate with the SWA by accepting referrals of all qualified U.S. workers who apply (or on whose behalf a job application is made) for the job opportunity, and must provide employment to any qualified U.S. worker who applies to the employer for the job opportunity, until 21 days before the date of need.
(u)
No strike or lockout.
There is no strike or lockout at any of the employer's worksites within the area of intended employment for which the employer is requesting H-2B certification at the time the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is filed.
(v)
No recent or future layoffs.
The employer has not laid off and will not lay off any similarly employed U.S. worker in the occupation that is the subject of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in the area of intended employment within the period beginning 120 calendar days before the date of need through the end of the period of certification. A layoff for lawful, job-related reasons such as lack of work or the end of a season is permissible if all H-2B workers are laid off before any U.S. worker in corresponding employment.
(w)
Contact with former U.S. employees.
The employer will contact (by mail or other effective means) its former U.S. workers, including those who have been laid off within 120 calendar days before the date of need (except those who were dismissed for cause or who abandoned the worksite), employed by the employer in the occupation at the place of employment during the previous year, disclose the terms of the job order, and solicit their return to the job.
(x)
Area of intended employment and job opportunity.
The employer must not place any H-2B workers employed under the approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
outside the area of intended employment or in a job opportunity not listed on the approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
unless the employer has obtained a new approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(y)
Abandonment/termination of employment.
Upon the separation from employment of worker(s) employed under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or workers in corresponding employment, if such separation occurs before the end date of the employment specified in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the employer must notify OFLC in writing of the separation from employment not later than 2 work days after such separation is discovered by the employer. In addition, the employer must notify DHS in writing (or any other method specified by the Department of Labor or DHS in the
Federal Register
or the Code of Federal Regulations) of such separation of an H-2B worker. An abandonment or abscondment is deemed to begin after a worker fails to report for work at the regularly scheduled time for 5 consecutive working days without the consent of the employer. If the separation is due to the voluntary abandonment of employment by the H-2B worker or worker in corresponding employment, and the employer provides appropriate notification specified under this paragraph (y), the employer will not be responsible for providing or paying for the subsequent transportation and subsistence expenses of that worker under this section, and that worker is not entitled to the three-fourths guarantee described in paragraph (f) of this section. The employer's obligation to guarantee three-fourths of the work described in paragraph (f) ends with the last full 12-week period (or 6-week period, as appropriate) preceding the worker's voluntary abandonment or termination for cause.
(z)
Compliance with applicable laws.
During the period of employment specified on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the employer must comply with all applicable Federal, State and local employment-related laws and regulations, including health and safety laws. This includes compliance with 18 U.S.C. 1592(a), with respect to prohibitions against employers, the employer's agents or their attorneys knowingly holding, destroying or confiscating workers' passports, visas, or other immigration documents.
(aa)
Disclosure of foreign worker recruitment.
The employer, and its attorney or agent, as applicable, must comply with § 655.9 by providing a copy of all agreements with any agent or recruiter whom it engages or plans to engage in the recruitment of H-2B workers, and the identity and location of the persons or entities hired by or working for the agent or recruiter and any of the agents or employees of those persons and entities, to recruit foreign workers. Pursuant to § 655.15(a), the
agreements and information must be filed with the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(bb)
Cooperation with investigators.
The employer must cooperate with any employee of the Secretary who is exercising or attempting to exercise the Department's authority pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1184(c)(14)(B), section 214(c)(14)(B) of the INA.
§§ 655.21-655.29
[Reserved]

# Processing of an Application for Temporary Employment Certification
§ 655.30
Processing of an application and job order.
(a)
NPC review.
The CO will review the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order for compliance with all applicable program requirements.
(b)
Mailing and postmark requirements.
Any notice or request sent by the CO to an employer requiring a response will be mailed to the address provided in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
using methods to assure next day delivery, including electronic mail. The employer's response to such a notice or request must be mailed using methods to assure next day delivery, including electronic mail, and be sent by the due date or the next business day if the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday.
(c)
Information dissemination.
OFLC may forward information received in the course of processing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and program integrity measures to WHD, or any other Federal agency, as appropriate, for investigation and/or enforcement purposes.
§ 655.31
Notice of deficiency.
(a)
Notification timeline.
If the CO determines the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and/or job order is incomplete, contains errors or inaccuracies, or does not meet the requirements set forth in this subpart, the CO will notify the employer within 7 business days from the CO's receipt of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
If applicable, the Notice of Deficiency will include job order deficiencies identified by the SWA under § 655.16. The CO will send a copy of the Notice of Deficiency to the SWA serving the area of intended employment identified by the employer on its job order, and if applicable, to the employer's attorney or agent.
(b)
Notice content.
The Notice of Deficiency will:
(1) State the reason(s) why the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order fails to meet the criteria for acceptance and state the modification needed for the CO to issue a Notice of Acceptance;
(2) Offer the employer an opportunity to submit a modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order within 10 business days from the date of the Notice of Deficiency. The Notice will state the modification needed for the CO to issue a Notice of Acceptance;
(3) Offer the employer an opportunity to request administrative review of the Notice of Deficiency before an ALJ under provisions set forth in § 655.61. The Notice will inform the employer that it must submit a written request for review to the Chief ALJ of DOL within 10 business days from the date the Notice of Deficiency is issued by facsimile or other means normally assuring next day delivery, and that the employer must simultaneously serve a copy on the CO. The Notice will also state that the employer may submit any legal arguments that the employer believes will rebut the basis of the CO's action; and
(4) State that if the employer does not comply with the requirements of this section by either submitting a modified application within 10 business days or requesting administrative review before an ALJ under § 655.61, the CO will deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The Notice will inform the employer that the denial of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is final, and cannot be appealed. The Department of Labor will not further consider that
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
§ 655.32
Submission of a modified application or job order.
(a)
Review of a modified Application for Temporary Employment Certification or
job order.
Upon receipt of a response to a Notice of Deficiency, including any modifications, the CO will review the response. The CO may issue one or more additional Notices of Deficiency before issuing a decision. The employer's failure to comply with a Notice of Deficiency, including not responding in a timely manner or not providing all required documentation, will result in a denial of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(b)
Acceptance of a modified Application for Temporary Employment Certification or job order.
If the CO accepts the modification(s) to the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and/or job order, the CO will issue a Notice of Acceptance to the employer. The CO will send a copy of the Notice of Acceptance to the SWA instructing it to make any necessary modifications to the not yet posted job order and, if applicable, to the employer's attorney or agent, and follow the procedure set forth in § 655.33.
(c)
Denial of a modified Application for Temporary Employment Certification or job order.
If the CO finds the response to Notice of Deficiency unacceptable, the CO will deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with the labor certification determination provisions in § 655.51.
(d)
Appeal from denial of a modified Application for Temporary Employment Certification or job order.
The procedures for appealing a denial of a modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and/or job order are the same as for appealing the denial of a non-modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
outlined in § 655.61.
(e)
Post acceptance modifications.
Irrespective of the decision to accept the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the CO may require modifications to the job order at any time before the final determination to grant or deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
if the CO determines that the offer of employment does not contain all the minimum benefits, wages, and working condition provisions as set forth in § 655.18. The employer must make such modification, or certification will be denied under § 655.53. The employer must provide all workers recruited in connection with the job opportunity in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with a copy of the modified job order no later than the date work commences, as approved by the CO.
§ 655.33
Notice of acceptance.
(a)
Notification timeline.
If the CO determines the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order are complete and meet the requirements of this subpart, the CO will notify the employer in writing within 7 business days from the date the CO received the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order or modification thereof. A copy of the Notice of Acceptance will be sent to the SWA serving the area of intended employment identified by the employer on its job order and, if applicable, to the employer's attorney or agent.
(b)
Notice content.
The notice will:
(1) Direct the employer to engage in recruitment of U.S. workers as provided in §§ 655.40 through 655.46, including any additional recruitment ordered by the CO under § 655.46;
(2) State that such employer-conducted recruitment is in addition to the job order being circulated by the SWA(s) and that the employer must conduct recruitment within 14 calendar days from the date the Notice of Acceptance is issued, consistent with § 655.40;
(3) Direct the SWA to place the job order into intra- and interstate clearance as set forth in § 655.16 and to commence such clearance by:
(i) Sending a copy of the job order to other States listed as anticipated worksites in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order, if applicable; and
(ii) Sending a copy of the job order to the SWAs for all States designated by the CO for interstate clearance;
(4) Instruct the SWA to keep the approved job order on its active file until the end of the recruitment period as defined in § 655.40(c), and to transmit the same instruction to other SWAs to which it circulates the job order in the course of interstate clearance;
(5) Where the occupation or industry is traditionally or customarily unionized, direct the SWA to circulate a copy of the job order to the following labor organizations:
(i) The central office of the State Federation of Labor in the State(s) in which work will be performed; and
(ii) The office(s) of local union(s) representing employees in the same or substantially equivalent job classification in the area(s) in which work will be performed;
(6) Advise the employer, as appropriate, that it must contact the appropriate designated community-based organization(s) with notice of the job opportunity; and
(7) Require the employer to submit a report of its recruitment efforts as specified in § 655.48.
§ 655.34
Electronic job registry.
(a)
Location of and placement in the electronic job registry.
Upon acceptance of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
under § 655.33, the CO will place for public examination a copy of the job order posted by the SWA on the Department's electronic job registry, including any amendments or required modifications approved by the CO.
(b)
Length of posting on electronic job registry.
The Department of Labor will keep the job order posted on the electronic job registry until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.40(c).
(c)
Conclusion of active posting.
Once the recruitment period has concluded the job order will be placed in inactive status on the electronic job registry.
§ 655.35
Amendments to an application or job order.
(a)
Increases in number of workers.
The employer may request to increase the number of workers noted in the
H-2B Registration
by no more than 20 percent (50 percent for employers requesting fewer than 10 workers). All requests for increasing the number of workers must be made in writing and will not be effective until approved by the CO. In considering whether to approve the request, the CO will determine whether the proposed amendment(s) are sufficiently justified and must take into account the effect of the changes on the underlying labor market test for the job opportunity. Upon acceptance of an amendment, the CO will submit to the SWA any necessary changes to the job order and update the electronic job registry. The employer must promptly provide copies of any approved amendments to all U.S. workers hired under the original job order.
(b)
Minor changes to the period of employment.
The employer may request minor changes to the total period of employment listed on its
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order, for a period of up to 14 days, but the period of employment may not exceed a total of 9 months, except in the event of a one-time occurrence. All requests for minor changes to the total period of employment must be made in writing and will not be effective until approved by the CO. In considering whether to approve the request, the CO will determine whether the proposed amendment(s) are sufficiently justified and must take into account the effect of the changes on the underlying labor market test for the job opportunity. Upon acceptance of an amendment, the CO will submit to the SWA any necessary changes to the job order and update the electronic job registry. The employer must promptly provide copies of any approved amendments to all U.S. workers hired under the original job order
(c)
Other amendments to the Application for Temporary Employment Certification and job order.
The employer may request other amendments to the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order. All such requests must be made in writing and will not be effective until approved by the CO. In considering whether to approve the request, the CO will determine whether the proposed amendment(s) are sufficiently justified and must take into account the effect of the changes on the underlying labor market test for the job opportunity. Upon acceptance of an amendment, the CO will submit to the SWA any necessary changes to the job order and update the electronic job registry.
(d)
Amendments after certification are not permitted.
The employer must
promptly provide copies of any approved amendments to all U.S. workers hired under the original job order.
§§ 655.36-655.39
[Reserved]

# Post-Acceptance Requirements
§ 655.40
Employer-conducted recruitment.
(a)
Employer obligations.
Employers must conduct recruitment of U.S. workers to ensure that there are not qualified U.S. workers who will be available for the positions listed in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
U.S. Applicants can be rejected only for lawful job-related reasons.
(b)
Employer-conducted recruitment period.
Unless otherwise instructed by the CO, the employer must conduct the recruitment described in §§ 655.43 through 655.46 within 14 calendar days from the date the Notice of Acceptance is issued. All employer-conducted recruitment must be completed before the employer submits the recruitment report as required in § 655.48.
(c)
U.S. workers.
Employers must continue to accept referrals and applications of all U.S. applicants interested in the position until 21 days before the date of need.
(d)
Interviewing U.S. workers.
Employers that wish to require interviews must conduct those interviews by phone or provide a procedure for the interviews to be conducted in the location where the worker is being recruited so that the worker incurs little or no cost. Employers cannot provide potential H-2B workers with more favorable treatment with respect to the requirement for, and conduct of, interviews.
(e)
Qualified and available U.S. workers.
The employer must consider all U.S. applicants for the job opportunity. The employer must accept and hire any applicants who are qualified and who will be available.
(f)
Recruitment report.
The employer must prepare a recruitment report meeting the requirements of § 655.48.
[42 FR 45899, Sept. 13, 1977, as amended at 84 FR 62446, Nov. 15, 2019]
§ 655.41
Advertising requirements.
(a) All recruitment conducted under §§ 655.43 through 655.46 must contain terms and conditions of employment that are not less favorable than those offered to the H-2B workers and, at a minimum, must comply with the assurances applicable to job orders as set forth in § 655.18(a).
(b) All advertising must contain the following information:
(1) The employer's name and contact information;
(2) The geographic area of intended employment with enough specificity to apprise applicants of any travel requirements and where applicants will likely have to reside to perform the services or labor;
(3) A description of the job opportunity for which certification is sought with sufficient information to apprise U.S. workers of the services or labor to be performed, including the duties, the minimum education and experience requirements, the work hours and days, and the anticipated start and end dates of the job opportunity;
(4) A statement that the job opportunity is a temporary, full-time position including the total number of job openings the employer intends to fill;
(5) If applicable, a statement that overtime will be available to the worker and the wage offer(s) for working any overtime hours;
(6) If applicable, a statement indicating that on-the-job training will be provided to the worker;
(7) The wage that the employer is offering, intends to offer or will provide to the H-2B workers or, in the event that there are multiple wage offers, the range of applicable wage offers, each of which must equal or exceed the highest of the prevailing wage or the Federal, State, or local minimum wage;
(8) If applicable, any board, lodging, or other facilities the employer will offer to workers or intends to assist workers in securing;
(9) All deductions not required by law that the employer will make from the worker's paycheck, including, if applicable, reasonable deduction for board, lodging, and other facilities offered to the workers;
(10) A statement that transportation and subsistence from the place where
the worker has come to work for the employer to the place of employment and return transportation and subsistence will be provided, as required by § 655.20(j)(1);
(11) If applicable, a statement that work tools, supplies, and equipment will be provided to the worker without charge;
(12) If applicable, a statement that daily transportation to and from the worksite will be provided by the employer;
(13) A statement summarizing the three-fourths guarantee as required by § 655.20(f); and
(14) A statement directing applicants to apply for the job opportunity at the nearest office of the SWA in the State in which the advertisement appeared, the SWA contact information, and, if applicable, the job order number.
[42 FR 45899, Sept. 13, 1977, as amended at 84 FR 62446, Nov. 15, 2019]
§ 655.42
[Reserved]
§ 655.43
Contact with former U.S. employees.
The employer must contact (by mail or other effective means) its former U.S. workers, including those who have been laid off within 120 calendar days before the date of need, employed by the employer in the occupation at the place of employment during the previous year (except those who were dismissed for cause or who abandoned the worksite), disclose the terms of the job order, and solicit their return to the job. The employer must maintain documentation sufficient to prove such contact in accordance with § 655.56.
§ 655.44
[Reserved]
§ 655.45
Contact with bargaining representative, posting and other contact requirements.
(a) If there is a bargaining representative for any of the employer's employees in the occupation and area of intended employment, the employer must provide written notice of the job opportunity, by providing a copy of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and the job order, and maintain documentation that it was sent to the bargaining representative(s). An employer governed by this paragraph (a) must include information in its recruitment report that confirms that the bargaining representative(s) was contacted and notified of the position openings and whether the organization referred qualified U.S. worker(s), including the number of referrals, or was non-responsive to the employer's requests.
(b) If there is no bargaining representative, the employer must post the availability of the job opportunity in at least 2 conspicuous locations at the place(s) of anticipated employment or in some other manner that provides reasonable notification to all employees in the job classification and area in which the work will be performed by the H-2B workers. Electronic posting, such as displaying the notice prominently on any internal or external Web site that is maintained by the employer and customarily used for notices to employees about terms and conditions of employment, is sufficient to meet this posting requirement as long as it otherwise meets the requirements of this section. The notice must meet the requirements under § 655.41 and be posted for at least 15 consecutive business days. The employer must maintain a copy of the posted notice and identify where and when it was posted in accordance with § 655.56.
(c) If appropriate to the occupation and area of intended employment, as indicated by the CO in the Notice of Acceptance, the employer must provide written notice of the job opportunity to a community-based organization, and maintain documentation that it was sent to any designated community-based organization. An employer governed by this paragraph (c) must include information in its recruitment report that confirms that the community-based organization was contacted and notified of the position openings and whether the organization referred qualified U.S. worker(s), including the number of referrals, or was non-responsive to the employer's requests.
§ 655.46
Additional employer-conducted recruitment.
(a)
Requirement to conduct additional recruitment.
The employer may be instructed by the CO to conduct additional reasonable recruitment. Such recruitment may be required at the discretion of the CO where the CO has determined that there is a likelihood that U.S. workers who are qualified and will be available for the work, including but not limited to where the job opportunity is located in an Area of Substantial Unemployment.
(b)
Nature of the additional employer-conducted recruitment.
The CO will describe the precise number and nature of the additional recruitment efforts. Additional recruitment may include, but is not limited to, posting on the employer's Web site or another Web site, contact with additional community-based organizations, additional contact with State One-Stop Career Centers, and other print advertising, such as using a professional, trade or ethnic publication where such a publication is appropriate for the occupation and the workers likely to apply for the job opportunity. When assessing the appropriateness of a particular recruitment method, the CO will consider the cost of the additional recruitment and the likelihood that the additional recruitment method(s) will identify qualified and available U.S. workers.
(c)
Proof of the additional employer-conducted recruitment.
The CO will specify the documentation or other supporting evidence that must be maintained by the employer as proof that the additional recruitment requirements were met. Documentation must be maintained as required in § 655.56.
§ 655.47
Referrals of U.S. workers.
SWAs may only refer for employment individuals who have been apprised of all the material terms and conditions of employment and who are qualified and will be available for employment.
§ 655.48
Recruitment report.
(a)
Requirements of the recruitment report.
The employer must prepare, sign, and date a recruitment report. Where recruitment was conducted by a job contractor or its employer-client, both joint employers must sign the recruitment report in accordance with § 655.19(e). The recruitment report must be submitted by a date specified by the CO in the Notice of Acceptance and contain the following information:
(1) The name of each recruitment activity or source (e.g., job order and the name of the newspaper);
(2) The name and contact information of each U.S. worker who applied or was referred to the job opportunity up to the date of the preparation of the recruitment report, and the disposition of each worker's application. The employer must clearly indicate whether the job opportunity was offered to the U.S. worker and whether the U.S. worker accepted or declined;
(3) Confirmation that former U.S. employees were contacted, if applicable, and by what means;
(4) Confirmation that the bargaining representative was contacted, if applicable, and by what means, or that the employer posted the availability of the job opportunity to all employees in the job classification and area in which the work will be performed by the H-2B workers;
(5) Confirmation that the community-based organization designated by the CO was contacted, if applicable;
(6) If applicable, confirmation that additional recruitment was conducted as directed by the CO; and
(7) If applicable, for each U.S. worker who applied for the position but was not hired, the lawful job-related reason(s) for not hiring the U.S. worker.
(b)
Duty to update recruitment report.
The employer must continue to update the recruitment report throughout the recruitment period. In a joint employment situation, either the job contractor or the employer-client may update the recruitment report. The updated report must be signed, dated and need not be submitted to the Department of Labor, but must be made available in the event of a post-certification audit or upon request by DOL.
§ 655.49
[Reserved]

# Labor Certification Determinations
§ 655.50
Determinations.
(a)
Certifying Officers (COs).
The Administrator, OFLC is the Department's
National CO. The Administrator, OFLC and the CO(s), by virtue of delegation from the Administrator, OFLC, have the authority to certify or deny
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
under the H-2B nonimmigrant classification. If the Administrator, OFLC directs that certain types of temporary labor certification applications or a specific
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
under the H-2B nonimmigrant classification be handled by the OFLC's National Office, the Director of the NPC will refer such applications to the Administrator, OFLC.
(b)
Determination.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b), the CO will make a determination either to certify or deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The CO will certify the application only if the employer has met all the requirements of this subpart, including the criteria for certification in § 655.51, thus demonstrating that there is an insufficient number of U.S. workers who are qualified and who will be available for the job opportunity for which certification is sought and that the employment of the H-2B workers will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers.
§ 655.51
Criteria for certification.
(a) The criteria for certification include whether the employer has a valid
H-2B Registration
to participate in the H-2B program and has complied with all of the requirements necessary to grant the labor certification.
(b) In making a determination whether there are insufficient U.S. workers to fill the employer's job opportunity, the CO will count as available any U.S. worker referred by the SWA or any U.S. worker who applied (or on whose behalf an application is made) directly to the employer, but who was rejected by the employer for other than a lawful job-related reason.
(c) A certification will not be granted to an employer that has failed to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies imposed by final agency actions under the H-2B program.
§ 655.52
Approved certification.
If a temporary labor certification is granted, the CO will send the approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and a Final Determination letter to the employer by means normally assuring next day delivery, including electronic mail, and a copy, if applicable, to the employer's attorney or agent. If the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is electronically filed, the employer must sign the certified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
as directed by the CO. The employer must retain a signed copy of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and the original signed Appendix B of the Application, as required by § 655.56.
§ 655.53
Denied certification.
If a temporary labor certification is denied, the CO will send the Final Determination letter to the employer by means normally assuring next day delivery, including electronic mail, and a copy, if applicable, to the employer's attorney or agent. The Final Determination letter will:
(a) State the reason(s) certification is denied, citing the relevant regulatory standards;
(b) Offer the employer an opportunity to request administrative review of the denial under § 655.61; and
(c) State that if the employer does not request administrative review in accordance with § 655.61, the denial is final and the Department of Labor will not accept any appeal on that
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
§ 655.54
Partial certification.
The CO may issue a partial certification, reducing either the period of need or the number of H-2B workers or both for certification, based upon information the CO receives during the course of processing the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The number of workers certified will be reduced by one for each U.S. worker who is qualified and who will be available at the time and place needed to perform the services or labor and who has not been rejected for lawful job-related reasons. If a partial labor certification
is issued, the CO will amend the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and then return it to the employer with a Final Determination letter, with a copy to the employer's attorney or agent, if applicable. The Final Determination letter will:
(a) State the reason(s) why either the period of need and/or the number of H-2B workers requested has been reduced, citing the relevant regulatory standards;
(b) If applicable, address the availability of U.S. workers in the occupation;
(c) Offer the employer an opportunity to request administrative review of the partial certification under § 655.61; and
(d) State that if the employer does not request administrative review in accordance with § 655.61, the partial certification is final and the Department of Labor will not accept any appeal on that
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
§ 655.55
Validity of temporary labor certification.
(a)
Validity period.
A temporary labor certification is valid only for the period as approved on the
Application for Temporary Employment
Certification.
The certification expires on the last day of authorized employment.
(b)
Scope of validity.
A temporary labor certification is valid only for the number of H-2B positions, the area of intended employment, the job classification and specific services or labor to be performed, and the employer specified on the approved
Application for Temporary Employment
Certification,
including any approved modifications. The temporary labor certification may not be transferred from one employer to another unless the employer to which it is transferred is a successor in interest to the employer to which it was issued.
§ 655.56
Document retention requirements of H-2B employers.
(a)
Entities required to retain documents.
All employers filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
requesting H-2B workers are required to retain the documents and records proving compliance with 29 CFR part 503 and this subpart, including but not limited to those specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Period of required retention.
The employer must retain records and documents for 3 years from the date of certification of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
or from the date of adjudication if the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is denied, or 3 years from the day the Department of Labor receives the letter of withdrawal provided in accordance with § 655.62. For the purposes of this section, records and documents required to be retained in connection with an
H-2B Registration
must be retained in connection with all of the
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
that are supported by it.
(c)
Documents and records to be retained by all employer applicants.
All employers filing an
H-2B Registration
and an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must retain the following documents and records and must provide the documents and records to the Department of Labor and other Federal agencies in the event of an audit or investigation:
(1) Documents and records not previously submitted during the registration process that substantiate temporary need;
(2) Proof of recruitment efforts, as applicable, including:
(i) Job order placement as specified in § 655.16;
(ii) Contact with former U.S. workers as specified in § 655.43;
(iii) Contact with bargaining representative(s), or a copy of the posting of the job opportunity, if applicable, as specified in § 655.45(a) or (b); and
(iv) Additional employer-conducted recruitment efforts as specified in § 655.46;
(3) Substantiation of the information submitted in the recruitment report prepared in accordance with § 655.48, such as evidence of nonapplicability of contact with former workers as specified in § 655.43;
(4) The final recruitment report and any supporting resumes and contact information as specified in § 655.48;
(5) Records of each worker's earnings, hours offered and worked, location(s) of work performed, and other information as specified in § 655.20(i);
(6) If appropriate, records of reimbursement of transportation and subsistence costs incurred by the workers, as specified in § 655.20(j).
(7) Evidence of contact with U.S. workers who applied for the job opportunity in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
including documents demonstrating that any rejections of U.S. workers were for lawful, job-related reasons, as specified in § 655.20(r);
(8) Evidence of contact with any former U.S. worker in the occupation at the place of employment in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
including documents demonstrating that the U.S. worker had been offered the job opportunity in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
as specified in § 655.20(w), and that the U.S. worker either refused the job opportunity or was rejected only for lawful, job-related reasons, as specified in § 655.20(r);
(9) The written contracts with agents or recruiters as specified in §§ 655.8 and 655.9, and the list of the identities and locations of persons hired by or working for the agent or recruiter and these entities' agents or employees, as specified in § 655.9;
(10) Written notice provided to and informing OFLC that an H-2B worker or worker in corresponding employment has separated from employment before the end date of employment specified in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
as specified in § 655.20(y);
(11) The
H-2B Registration,
job order and a copy of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and the original signed Appendix B of the Application. If the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and
H-2B Registration
is electronically filed, a printed copy of each adjudicated
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
including any modifications, amendments or extensions must be signed by the employer as directed by the CO and retained;
(12) The
H-2B Petition,
including all accompanying documents; and
(13) Any collective bargaining agreement(s), individual employment contract(s), or payroll records from the previous year necessary to substantiate any claim that certain incumbent workers are not included in corresponding employment, as specified in § 655.5.
(d)
Availability of documents for enforcement purposes.
An employer must make available to the Administrator, WHD within 72 hours following a request by the WHD the documents and records required under 29 CFR part 503 and this section so that the Administrator, WHD may copy, transcribe, or inspect them.
[42 FR 45899, Sept. 13, 1977, as amended at 84 FR 62446, Nov. 15, 2019]
§ 655.57
Request for determination based on nonavailability of U.S. workers.
(a)
Standards for requests.
If a temporary labor certification has been partially granted or denied, based on the CO's determination that qualified U.S. workers are available, and, on or after 21 calendar days before the date of need, some or all of those qualified U.S. workers are, in fact no longer available, the employer may request a new temporary labor certification determination from the CO. Prior to making a new determination the CO will promptly ascertain (which may be through the SWA or other sources of information on U.S. worker availability) whether specific qualified replacement U.S. workers are available or can be reasonably expected to be present at the employer's establishment within 72 hours from the date the employer's request was received. The CO will expeditiously, but in no case later than 72 hours after the time a complete request (including the signed statement included in paragraph (b) of this section) is received, make a determination on the request. An employer may appeal a denial of such a determination in accordance with procedures contained in § 655.61.
(b)
Unavailability of U.S. workers.
The employer's request for a new determination must be made directly to the CO by electronic mail or other appropriate means and must be accompanied by a signed statement confirming the employer's assertion. In addition, unless the employer has provided to the CO notification of abandonment or termination of employment as required by
§ 655.20(y), the employer's signed statement must include the name and contact information of each U.S. worker who became unavailable and must supply the reason why the worker has become unavailable.
(c)
Notification of determination.
If the CO determines that U.S. workers have become unavailable and cannot identify sufficient available U.S. workers who are qualified or who are likely to become available, the CO will grant the employer's request for a new determination. However, this does not preclude an employer from submitting subsequent requests for new determinations, if warranted, based on subsequent facts concerning purported nonavailability of U.S. workers or referred workers not being qualified because of lawful job-related reasons.
§§ 655.58-655.59
[Reserved]

# Post Certification Activities
§ 655.60
Extensions.
An employer may apply for extensions of the period of employment in the following circumstances. A request for extension must be related to weather conditions or other factors beyond the control of the employer (which may include unforeseeable changes in market conditions), and must be supported in writing, with documentation showing why the extension is needed and that the need could not have been reasonably foreseen by the employer. The CO will notify the employer of the decision in writing. Except in extraordinary circumstances, the CO will not grant an extension where the total work period under that
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and the authorized extension would exceed 9 months for employers whose temporary need is seasonal, peakload, or intermittent, or 3 years for employers that have a one-time occurrence of temporary need. The employer may appeal a denial of a request for an extension by following the procedures in § 655.61. The H-2B employer's assurances and obligations under the temporary labor certification will continue to apply during the extended period of employment. The employer must immediately provide to its workers a copy of any approved extension.
§ 655.61
Administrative review.
(a)
Request for review.
Where authorized in this subpart, employers may request an administrative review before the BALCA of a determination by the CO. In such cases, the request for review:
(1) Must be sent to the BALCA, with a copy simultaneously sent to the CO who issued the determination, within 10 business days from the date of determination;
(2) Must clearly identify the particular determination for which review is sought;
(3) Must set forth the particular grounds for the request;
(4) Must include a copy of the CO's determination; and
(5) May contain only legal argument and such evidence as was actually submitted to the CO before the date the CO's determination was issued.
(b)
Appeal file.
Upon the receipt of a request for review, the CO will, within 7 business days, assemble and submit the Appeal File using means to ensure same day or next day delivery, to the BALCA, the employer, and the Associate Solicitor for Employment and Training Legal Services, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor.
(c)
Briefing schedule.
Within 7 business days of receipt of the Appeal File, the counsel for the CO may submit, using means to ensure same day or next day delivery, a brief in support of the CO's decision.
(d)
Assignment.
The Chief ALJ may designate a single member or a three member panel of the BALCA to consider a particular case.
(e)
Review.
The BALCA must review the CO's determination only on the basis of the Appeal File, the request for review, and any legal briefs submitted and must:
(1) Affirm the CO's determination; or
(2) Reverse or modify the CO's determination; or
(3) Remand to the CO for further action.
(f)
Decision.
The BALCA should notify the employer, the CO, and counsel for the CO of its decision within 7 business days of the submission of the CO's brief or 10 business days after receipt of the Appeal File, whichever is later,
using means to ensure same day or next day delivery.
§ 655.62
Withdrawal of an Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Employers may withdraw an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
after it has been accepted and before it is adjudicated. The employer must request such withdrawal in writing.
§ 655.63
Public disclosure.
The Department of Labor will maintain an electronic file accessible to the public with information on all employers applying for temporary nonagricultural labor certifications. The database will include such information as the number of workers requested, the date filed, the date decided, and the final disposition.
§ 655.64
Special application filing and eligibility provisions for Fiscal Year 2025 under the December 2, 2024, supplemental cap increase.
(a) An employer filing a petition with USCIS under 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv) to request H-2B workers with FY 2025 employment start dates on or before September 30, 2025, must meet the following requirements:
(1) The employer must attest on the Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-9 that its business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv). The employer's attestation must identify the types of evidence the employer is relying on and will retain to meet the irreparable harm standard. The employer must attest that it has created a detailed written statement describing how it is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm and describing how such evidence demonstrates irreparable harm. In addition, the employer must attest that it will provide to DHS and/or DOL upon request all of the documentation it relied upon and retained as evidence that it meets the irreparable harm standard, including all of the supporting documentation the employer committed to retain at the time of filing on the employer's attestation form by selecting a checkbox next to the applicable type of documentation in section C, and the written statement describing how such evidence demonstrates irreparable harm.
(2) The employer must attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-9 that each of the workers requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa, whether named or unnamed, on a petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv), have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status during one of the last three (3) fiscal years (fiscal year 2022, 2023, or 2024), unless the H-2B worker is a national of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica and is counted towards the 20,000 cap described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv)(A)(
2
).
(3) The employer must attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-9 that the employer will comply with all the assurances, obligations, and conditions of employment set forth on its approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(4) An employer that submits Form ETA-9142B-CAA-9 and the I-129 petition 30 or more days after the certified start date of work, as shown on its approved Form ETA-9142B,
Final Determination: H-2B Temporary Labor Certification Approval,
must conduct additional recruitment of U.S. workers as follows:
(i) Not later than the next business day after submitting the I-129 petition for H-2B worker(s), the employer must place a new job order for the job opportunity with the State Workforce Agency (SWA), serving the area of intended employment. The employer must follow all applicable SWA instructions for posting job orders, concurrently inform the SWA and NPC that the job order is being placed in connection with a previously certified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for H-2B workers by providing the unique temporary labor certification (TLC) identification number, and receive applications in all forms allowed by the SWA, including online applications (sometimes known as “self-referrals”).
The job order must contain the job assurances and contents set forth in § 655.18 for recruitment of U.S. workers at the place of employment, and remain posted for at least 15 calendar days;
(ii) During the period of time the SWA is actively circulating the job order described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section for intrastate clearance, the employer must contact, by email or other available electronic means, the nearest comprehensive American Job Center (AJC) serving the area of intended employment where work will commence, request staff assistance advertising and recruiting qualified U.S. workers for the job opportunity, and provide the AJC with the unique identification number associated with the job order placed with the SWA or, if unavailable, a copy of the job order. If a comprehensive AJC is not available, the employer must contact the nearest affiliate AJC serving the area of intended employment where work will commence to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (a)(4)(ii);
(iii) Where the occupation or industry is traditionally or customarily unionized, during the period of time the SWA is actively circulating the job order described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section for intrastate clearance, the employer must contact (by mail, email or other effective means) the nearest American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations office covering the area of intended employment and provide written notice of the job opportunity, by providing a copy of the job order placed pursuant to (a)(4)(i) of this section, and request assistance in recruiting qualified U.S. workers for the job;
(iv) During the period of time the SWA is actively circulating the job order described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section for intrastate clearance, the employer must contact (by mail or other effective means) its former U.S. workers, including those who have been furloughed or laid off, during the period beginning January 1, 2023, until the date the I-129 petition required under 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv) is submitted, who were employed by the employer in the occupation at the place of employment (except those who were dismissed for cause or who abandoned the worksite), disclose the terms of the job order placed pursuant to (a)(4)(i) of this section, and solicit their return to the job. The contact and disclosures required by this paragraph (a)(4)(iv) must be provided in a language understood by the worker, as necessary or reasonable, and in writing;
(v) During the period of time the SWA is actively circulating the job order described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section for intrastate clearance, the employer must engage in the recruitment of U.S. workers as provided in § 655.45(a) and (b). The contact and disclosures required by this paragraph (a)(4)(v) must be provided in a language understood by the worker, as necessary or reasonable, in writing; and
(vi) During the period of time the SWA is actively circulating the job order described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section for intrastate clearance, the employer must contact (by mail or other effective written means) all U.S. workers currently employed at the place of employment, disclose the terms of the job order placed pursuant to (a)(4)(i) of this section, and request assistance in recruiting qualified U.S. workers for the job. The contact, disclosure, and request for assistance required by this paragraph (a)(4)(vi) must be provided in a language understood by the worker, as necessary or reasonable, and in writing;
(vii) Where the employer maintains a website for its business operations, during the period of time the SWA is actively circulating the job order described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section for intrastate clearance, the employer must post the job opportunity in a conspicuous location on the website. The job opportunity posted on the website must disclose the terms of the job order placed pursuant to (a)(4)(i) of this section, and remain posted for at least 15 calendar days;
(viii) The employer must hire any qualified U.S. worker who applies or is referred for the job opportunity until the date on which the last H-2B worker departs for the place of employment, or 30 days after the last date on which the SWA job order is posted, whichever is
later. Consistent with § 655.40(a), applicants can be rejected only for lawful job-related reasons.
(5) The employer must attest on Form ETA-9142-B-CAA-9 that it will fully cooperate with any audit, investigation, compliance review, evaluation, verification, or inspection conducted by DOL, including an on-site inspection of the employer's facilities, interview of the employer's employees and any other individuals possessing pertinent information, and review of the employer's records related to the compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including but not limited to evidence pertaining to or supporting the eligibility criteria for the FY 2025 supplemental allocations outlined in this paragraph (a) and § 655.68(a), as a condition for the approval of the H-2B petition. Pursuant to this subpart A at § 655.73 and 29 CFR 503.25, the employer will not impede, interfere, or refuse to cooperate with an employee of the Secretary who is exercising or attempting to exercise DOL's audit or investigative authority. DOL may consider the failure to respond to and/or comply with an investigation or audit to be a willful misrepresentation of material fact or a substantial failure to meet the terms and conditions of the
H-2B Application for Prevailing Wage Determination,
or
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
resulting in an adverse agency action on the employer, agent, or attorney, including assessment of a civil money penalty, revocation of the temporary labor certification, and/or program debarment for not less than 1 year or more than 5 years from the date of the final agency decision under 20 CFR 655.70, 655.72, 655.73 or 29 CFR part 503. A debarred party will be disqualified from filing any labor certification applications or labor condition applications with the Department of Labor by, or on behalf of, the debarred party for the same period of time set forth in the final debarment decision.
(b) This section expires on October 1, 2025.
(c) The requirements under paragraph (a) of this section are intended to be non-severable from the remainder of this section; in the event that paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this section is enjoined or held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this section is also intended to be enjoined or held to be invalid in such jurisdiction, without prejudice to workers already present in the United States under this part, as consistent with law.
[89 FR 95683, Dec. 2, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 95683, Dec. 2, 2024, § 655.64 was added, effective Dec. 2, 2024, through Sept. 30, 2025.
§ 655.65
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2024 through 2027 under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, as extended by Public Law 118-15.
(a) An employer that files a petition with USCIS to employ H-2B workers in fiscal year 2024 under authority of the temporary increase in the numerical limitation under section 303 of Division O, Public Law 117-328, as extended by Public Law 118-15 must maintain for a period of three (3) years from the date of certification, consistent with 20 CFR 655.56 and 29 CFR 503.17, the following:
(1) A copy of the attestation filed pursuant to the regulations in 8 CFR 214.2 governing that temporary increase;
(2) Evidence establishing, at the time of filing the I-129 petition, that the employer's business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xiv), including a detailed written statement describing the irreparable harm and how such evidence shows irreparable harm;
(3) Documentary evidence establishing that each of the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa, whether named or unnamed on a petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xiv), have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status during one of the last three (3) fiscal years (fiscal year 2021, 2022, or 2023), unless the H-2B worker(s) is a national of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica and is counted towards the 20,000 cap described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
2
). Alternatively, if
applicable, employers must maintain documentary evidence that the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for visas are eligible nationals of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica as defined in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xiv)(A)(
2
); and
(4) If applicable, proof of recruitment efforts set forth in § 655.64(a)(4)(i) through (vii) and a recruitment report that meets the requirements set forth in § 655.48(a)(1) through (4) and (7), and maintained throughout the recruitment period set forth in § 655.64(a)(4)(viii).
(b) DOL and/or DHS may inspect the documents in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section upon request.
(c) This section expires on October 1, 2027.
[88 FR 80460, Nov. 17, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
At 88 FR 80460, Nov. 17, 2023, § 655.65 was added, effective Nov. 17, 2023, until Sept. 30, 2027.
§ 655.66
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026 under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022.
(a) An employer that files a petition with USCIS to employ H-2B workers in fiscal year 2022 under authority of the temporary increase in the numerical limitation under section 204 of Division O, Public Law 117-103 must maintain for a period of three (3) years from the date of certification, consistent with 20 CFR 655.56 and 29 CFR 503.17, the following:
(1) A copy of the attestation filed pursuant to the regulations in 8 CFR 214.2 governing that temporary increase;
(2) Evidence establishing, at the time of filing the I-129 petition, that the employer's business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xii);
(3) Documentary evidence establishing that each of the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa, whether named or unnamed on a petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xii), have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status during one of the last three (3) fiscal years (fiscal year 2019, 2020, or 2021), unless the H-2B worker(s) is a national of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, or Haiti and is counted towards the 11,500 cap described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xii)(A)(
2
). Alternatively, if applicable, employers must maintain documentary evidence that the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for visas are eligible nationals of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, or Haiti as defined in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xii)(A)(
2
); and
(4) If applicable, proof of recruitment efforts set forth in § 655.65(a)(5)(i) through (v) and a recruitment report that meets the requirements set forth in § 655.48(a)(1) through (4) and (7), and maintained throughout the recruitment period set forth in § 655.65(a)(5)(vi).
(b) DOL or DHS may inspect the documents in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section upon request.
(c) This section expires on October 1, 2025.
[87 FR 30377, May 18, 2022]

# Effective Date Note:
At 87 FR 30378, May 18, 2022, § 655.66 was added, effective May 18, 2022, through Sept. 30, 2025.
§ 655.67
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2023 through 2026 under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022, as extended by Public Law 117-180.
(a) An employer that files a petition with USCIS to employ H-2B workers in fiscal year 2023 under authority of the temporary increase in the numerical limitation under section 204 of Division O, Public Law 117-103 must maintain for a period of three (3) years from the date of certification, consistent with 20 CFR 655.56 and 29 CFR 503.17, the following: (1) A copy of the attestation filed pursuant to the regulations in 8 CFR 214.2 governing that temporary increase;
(2) Evidence establishing, at the time of filing the I-129 petition, that the employer's business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the
ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xiii), including a detailed written statement describing the irreparable harm and how such evidence shows irreparable harm;
(3) Documentary evidence establishing that each of the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa, whether named or unnamed on a petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xiii), have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status during one of the last three (3) fiscal years (fiscal year 2020, 2021, or 2022), unless the H-2B worker(s) is a national of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, or Haiti and is counted towards the20,000 cap described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
2
). Alternatively, if applicable, employers must maintain documentary evidence that the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for visas are eligible nationals of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, or Haiti as defined in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xiii)(A)(
2
); and
(4) If applicable, proof of recruitment efforts set forth in '4§ 655.65(a)(5)(i) through (viii) and a recruitment report that meets the requirements set forth in § 655.48(a)(1) through (4) and (7), and maintained throughout the recruitment period set forth in § 655.65(a)(5)(ix).
(b) DOL or DHS may inspect the documents in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section upon request.
(c) This section expires on October 1, 2026.
[87 FR 76878, Dec. 15, 2022]

# Effective Date Note:
At 87 FR 76878, Dec. 15, 2022, § 655.67 was added, effective Dec. 15, 2022, to Sept. 30, 2026.
§ 655.68
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2025 through 2028 under the Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2024, as extended by Public Law 118-83.
(a) An employer that files a petition with USCIS to employ H-2B workers in fiscal year 2025 under authority of the temporary increase in the numerical limitation under section 105 of Division G, Public Law 118-47, as extended by Public Law 118-83 must maintain for a period of three (3) years from the date of certification, consistent with 20 CFR 655.56 and 29 CFR 503.17, the following:
(1) A copy of the attestation filed pursuant to the regulations in 8 CFR 214.2 governing that temporary increase;
(2) Evidence establishing, at the time of filing the I-129 petition and as attested to in the attestation form, that the employer's business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv), including a detailed written statement describing the irreparable harm and how such evidence shows irreparable harm;
(3) Documentary evidence establishing that each of the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa, whether named or unnamed on a petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv), have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status during one of the last three (3) fiscal years (fiscal year 2022, 2023, or 2024), unless the H-2B worker(s) is a national of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica and is counted towards the 20,000 cap described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv)(A)(
2
). Alternatively, if applicable, employers must maintain documentary evidence that the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for visas are eligible nationals of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Haiti, Colombia, Ecuador, or Costa Rica as defined in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xv)(A)(
2
); and
(4) If applicable, proof of recruitment efforts set forth in § 655.64(a)(4)(i) through (vii) and a recruitment report that meets the requirements set forth in § 655.48(a)(1) through (4) and (7), and maintained throughout the recruitment period set forth in § 655.64(a)(4)(viii).
(b) DOL and/or DHS may inspect the documents in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section upon request.
(c) This section expires on October 1, 2028.
[89 FR 95685, Dec. 2, 2024]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 95685, Dec. 2, 2024, § 655.68 was added, effective Dec. 2, 2024, through Sept. 30, 2028.
§ 655.69
Special document retention provisions for Fiscal Years 2022 through 2026 under Public Laws 116-260, 117-43, and 117-70.
(a) An employer that files a petition with USCIS to employ H-2B workers in fiscal year 2022 under authority for the temporary increase in the numerical limitation provided by Public Law 117-43 and Public Law 117-70 on the same terms as section 105 of Division O, of Public Law 116-260, must maintain for a period of three (3) years from the date of certification, consistent with 20 CFR 655.56 and 29 CFR 503.17, the following:
(1) A copy of the attestation filed pursuant to the regulations in 8 CFR 214.2 governing that temporary increase;
(2) Evidence establishing, at the time of filing the I-129 petition, that the employer's business is suffering irreparable harm or will suffer impending irreparable harm (that is, permanent and severe financial loss) without the ability to employ all of the H-2B workers requested on the petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xi);
(3) Documentary evidence establishing that each of the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for a visa, whether named or unnamed on a petition filed pursuant to 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xi), have been issued an H-2B visa or otherwise granted H-2B status during one of the last three (3) fiscal years (fiscal year 2019, 2020, or 2021), unless the H-2B worker(s) is a national of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, or Haiti and is counted towards the 6,500 cap described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xi)(A)(
2
). Alternatively, if applicable, employers must maintain documentary evidence that the workers the employer requested and/or instructed to apply for visas are eligible nationals of El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, or Haiti as defined in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(6)(xi)(A)(
2
); and
(4) If applicable, proof of recruitment efforts set forth in § 655.64(a)(5)(i) through (iv) and a recruitment report that meets the requirements set forth in § 655.48(a)(1) through (4) and (7), and maintained throughout the recruitment period set forth in § 655.64(a)(5)(v).
(b) DOL or DHS may inspect the documents in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section upon request.
(c) This section expires on October 1, 2025.
[87 FR 4762, Jan. 28, 2022]

# Effective Date Note:
At 87 FR 4762, Jan. 28, 2022, § 655.69 was added, effective Jan. 28, 2022, until Sept. 30, 2025.

# Integrity Measures
§ 655.70
Audits.
The CO may conduct audits of adjudicated temporary employment certification applications.
(a)
Discretion.
The CO has the sole discretion to choose the applications selected for audit.
(b)
Audit letter.
Where an application is selected for audit, the CO will send an audit letter to the employer and a copy, if appropriate, to the employer's attorney or agent. The audit letter will:
(1) Specify the documentation that must be submitted by the employer;
(2) Specify a date, no more than 30 calendar days from the date the audit letter is issued, by which the required documentation must be sent to the CO; and
(3) Advise that failure to fully comply with the audit process may result:
(i) In the requirement that the employer undergo the assisted recruitment procedures in § 655.71 in future filings of H-2B temporary employment certification applications for a period of up to 2 years, or
(ii) In a revocation of the certification and/or debarment from the H-2B program and any other foreign labor certification program administered by the Department Labor.
(c)
Supplemental information request.
During the course of the audit examination, the CO may request supplemental information and/or documentation from the employer in order to complete the audit. If circumstances warrant, the CO can issue one or more requests for supplemental information.
(d)
Potential referrals.
In addition to measures in this subpart, the CO may decide to provide the audit findings and underlying documentation to DHS,
WHD, or other appropriate enforcement agencies. The CO may refer any findings that an employer discouraged a qualified U.S. worker from applying, or failed to hire, discharged, or otherwise discriminated against a qualified U.S. worker to the Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Office of Special Counsel for Unfair Immigration Related Employment Practices.
§ 655.71
CO-ordered assisted recruitment.
(a)
Requirement of assisted recruitment.
If, as a result of audit or otherwise, the CO determines that a violation has occurred that does not warrant debarment, the CO may require the employer to engage in assisted recruitment for a defined period of time for any future
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(b)
Notification of assisted recruitment.
The CO will notify the employer (and its attorney or agent, if applicable) in writing of the assisted recruitment that will be required of the employer for a period of up to 2 years from the date the notice is issued. The notification will state the reasons for the imposition of the additional requirements, state that the employer's agreement to accept the conditions will constitute their inclusion as bona fide conditions and terms of an application for temporary employment certification, and offer the employer an opportunity to request an administrative review. If administrative review is requested, the procedures in § 655.61 apply.
(c)
Assisted recruitment.
The assisted recruitment process will be in addition to any recruitment required of the employer by §§ 655.41 through 655.46 and may consist of, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:
(1) Requiring the employer to submit a draft advertisement to the CO for review and approval at the time of filing the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification;
(2) Designating the sources where the employer must recruit for U.S. workers and directing the employer to place the advertisement(s) in such sources;
(3) Extending the length of the placement of the advertisement and/or job order;
(4) Requiring the employer to notify the CO and the SWA in writing when the advertisement(s) are placed;
(5) Requiring an employer to perform any additional assisted recruitment directed by the CO;
(6) Requiring the employer to provide proof of the publication of all advertisements as directed by the CO, in addition to providing a copy of the job order;
(7) Requiring the employer to provide proof of all SWA referrals made in response to the job order;
(8) Requiring the employer to submit any proof of contact with all referrals and past U.S. workers; and/or
(9) Requiring the employer to provide any additional documentation verifying it conducted the assisted recruitment as directed by the CO.
(d)
Failure to comply.
If an employer materially fails to comply with requirements ordered by the CO under this section, the certification will be denied and the employer and/or its attorney or agent may be debarred under § 655.73.
[42 FR 45899, Sept. 13, 1977, as amended at 84 FR 62447, Nov. 15, 2019]
§ 655.72
Revocation.
(a)
Basis for DOL revocation.
The Administrator, OFLC may revoke a temporary labor certification approved under this subpart, if the Administrator, OFLC finds:
(1) The issuance of the temporary labor certification was not justified due to fraud or willful misrepresentation of a material fact in the application process, as defined in § 655.73(d);
(2) The employer substantially failed to comply with any of the terms or conditions of the approved temporary labor certification. A substantial failure is a willful failure to comply that constitutes a significant deviation from the terms and conditions of the approved certification and is further defined in § 655.73(d) and (e);
(3) The employer failed to cooperate with a DOL investigation or with a DOL official performing an investigation, inspection, audit (under § 655.73), or law enforcement function under 29 CFR part 503 or this subpart; or
(4) The employer failed to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies
imposed by WHD, or with one or more decisions or orders of the Secretary with the respect to the H-2B program.
(b)
DOL procedures for revocation
—(1)
Notice of Revocation.
If the Administrator, OFLC makes a determination to revoke an employer's temporary labor certification, the Administrator, OFLC will send to the employer (and its attorney or agent, if applicable) a Notice of Revocation. The notice will contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation and inform the employer of its right to submit rebuttal evidence or to appeal. If the employer does not file rebuttal evidence or an appeal within 10 business days from the date the Notice of Revocation is issued, the notice is the final agency action and will take effect immediately at the end of the 10-day period.
(2)
Rebuttal.
If the employer timely submits rebuttal evidence, the Administrator, OFLC will inform the employer of the final determination on the revocation within 10 business days of receiving the rebuttal evidence. If the Administrator, OFLC determines that the certification should be revoked, the Administrator, OFLC will inform the employer of its right to appeal according to the procedures of § 655.61. If the employer does not appeal the final determination, it will become the final agency action.
(3)
Appeal.
An employer may appeal a Notice of Revocation, or a final determination of the Administrator, OFLC after the review of rebuttal evidence, according to the appeal procedures of § 655.61. The ALJ's decision is the final agency action.
(4)
Stay.
The timely filing of rebuttal evidence or an administrative appeal will stay the revocation pending the outcome of those proceedings.
(5)
Decision.
If the temporary labor certification is revoked, the Administrator, OFLC will send a copy of the final agency action to DHS and the Department of State.
(c)
Employer's obligations in the event of revocation.
If an employer's temporary labor certification is revoked, the employer is responsible for:
(1) Reimbursement of actual inbound transportation and other expenses;
(2) The workers' outbound transportation expenses;
(3) Payment to the workers of the amount due under the three-fourths guarantee; and
(4) Any other wages, benefits, and working conditions due or owing to the workers under this subpart.
§ 655.73
Debarment.
a)
Debarment of an employer.
The Administrator, OFLC may not issue future labor certifications under this subpart to an employer or any successor in interest to that employer, subject to the time limits set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, if the Administrator, OFLC finds that the employer committed the following violations:
(1) Willful misrepresentation of a material fact in its
H-2B Registration, Application for Prevailing Wage Determination,
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
or
H-2B Petition;
(2) Substantial failure to meet any of the terms and conditions of its
H-2B Registration, Application for Prevailing Wage Determination,
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
or
H-2B Petition.
A substantial failure is a willful failure to comply that constitutes a significant deviation from the terms and conditions of such documents; or
(3) Willful misrepresentation of a material fact to the DOS during the visa application process.
(b)
Debarment of an agent or attorney.
If the Administrator, OFLC finds, under this section, that an attorney or agent committed a violation as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section or participated in an employer's violation, the Administrator, OFLC may not issue future labor certifications to an employer represented by such agent or attorney, subject to the time limits set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Period of debarment.
Debarment under this subpart may not be for less than 1 year or more than 5 years from the date of the final agency decision.
(d)
Determining whether a violation is willful.
A willful misrepresentation of a material fact or a willful failure to meet the required terms and conditions occurs when the employer, attorney, or agent knows a statement is false or that the conduct is in violation, or
shows reckless disregard for the truthfulness of its representation or for whether its conduct satisfies the required conditions.
(e)
Determining whether a violation is significant.
In determining whether a violation is a significant deviation from the terms and conditions of the
H-2B Registration, Application for Prevailing Wage Determination,
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
or
H-2B Petition,
the factors that the Administrator, OFLC may consider include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Previous history of violation(s) under the H-2B program;
(2) The number of H-2B workers, workers in corresponding employment, or improperly rejected U.S. applicants who were and/or are affected by the violation(s);
(3) The gravity of the violation(s);
(4) The extent to which the violator achieved a financial gain due to the violation(s), or the potential financial loss or potential injury to the worker(s); and
(5) Whether U.S. workers have been harmed by the violation.
(f)
Violations.
Where the standards set forth in paragraphs (d) and (e) in this section are met, debarrable violations would include but would not be limited to one or more acts of commission or omission which involve:
(1) Failure to pay or provide the required wages, benefits or working conditions to the employer's H-2B workers and/or workers in corresponding employment;
(2) Failure, except for lawful, job-related reasons, to offer employment to qualified U.S. workers who applied for the job opportunity for which certification was sought;
(3) Failure to comply with the employer's obligations to recruit U.S. workers;
(4) Improper layoff or displacement of U.S. workers or workers in corresponding employment;
(5) Failure to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies imposed by the Administrator, WHD for violation(s) of obligations under the job order or other H-2B obligations, or with one or more decisions or orders of the Secretary or a court under this subpart or 29 CFR part 503;
(6) Failure to comply with the Notice of Deficiency process under this subpart;
(7) Failure to comply with the assisted recruitment process under this subpart;
(8) Impeding an investigation of an employer under 29 CFR part 503 or an audit under this subpart;
(9) Employing an H-2B worker outside the area of intended employment, in an activity/activities not listed in the job order, or outside the validity period of employment of the job order, including any approved extension thereof;
(10) A violation of the requirements of § 655.20(o) or (p);
(11) A violation of any of the provisions listed in § 655.20(r);
(12) Any other act showing such flagrant disregard for the law that future compliance with program requirements cannot reasonably be expected;
(13) Fraud involving the
H-2B Registration, Application for Prevailing Wage Determination,
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
or the
H-2B Petition;
or
(14) A material misrepresentation of fact during the registration or application process.
(g)
Debarment procedure
—(1)
Notice of Debarment.
If the Administrator, OFLC makes a determination to debar an employer, attorney, or agent, the Administrator, OFLC will send the party a Notice of Debarment. The Notice will state the reason for the debarment finding, including a detailed explanation of the grounds for and the duration of the debarment and inform the party subject to the notice of its right to submit rebuttal evidence or to request a debarment hearing. If the party does not file rebuttal evidence or request a hearing within 30 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Debarment, the notice is the final agency action and the debarment will take effect at the end of the 30-day period. The timely filing of an rebuttal evidence or a request for a hearing stays the debarment pending the outcome of the appeal as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) through (6) of this section.
(2)
Rebuttal.
The party who received the Notice of Debarment may choose to submit evidence to rebut the grounds stated in the notice within 30 calendar days of the date the notice is issued. If rebuttal evidence is timely filed, the Administrator, OFLC will issue a final determination on the debarment within 30 calendar days of receiving the rebuttal evidence. If the Administrator, OFLC determines that the party should be debarred, the Administrator, OFLC will inform the party of its right to request a debarment hearing according to the procedures in this section. The party must request a hearing within 30 calendar days after the date of the Administrator, OFLC's final determination, or the Administrator OFLC's determination will be the final agency order and the debarment will take effect at the end of the 30-day period.
(3)
Hearing.
The recipient of a Notice of Debarment seeking to challenge the debarment must request a debarment hearing within 30 calendar days of the date of a Notice of Debarment or the date of a final determination of the Administrator, OFLC after review of rebuttal evidence submitted under paragraph (g)(2) of this section. To obtain a debarment hearing, the recipient must, within 30 days of the date of the Notice or the final determination, file a written request with the Chief ALJ, United States Department of Labor, 800 K Street NW., Suite 400-N, Washington, DC 20001-8002, and simultaneously serve a copy on the Administrator, OFLC. The debarment will take effect 30 calendar days from the date the Notice of Debarment or final determination is issued, unless a request for review is timely filed. Within 10 business days of receipt of the request for a hearing, the Administrator, OFLC will send a certified copy of the ETA case file to the Chief ALJ by means normally assuring next day delivery. The Chief ALJ will immediately assign an ALJ to conduct the hearing. The procedures in 29 CFR part 18 apply to such hearings, except that the request for a hearing will not be considered to be a complaint to which an answer is required.
(4)
Decision.
After the hearing, the ALJ must affirm, reverse, or modify the Administrator, OFLC's determination. The ALJ will prepare the decision within 60 calendar days after completion of the hearing and closing of the record. The ALJ's decision will be provided to the parties to the debarment hearing by means normally assuring next day delivery. The ALJ's decision is the final agency action, unless either party, within 30 calendar days of the ALJ's decision, seeks review of the decision with the Administrative Review Board (ARB).
(5)
Review by the ARB.
(i) Any party wishing review of the decision of an ALJ must, within 30 calendar days of the decision of the ALJ, petition the ARB to review the decision. Copies of the petition must be served on all parties and on the ALJ. The ARB will decide whether to accept the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt. If the ARB declines to accept the petition, or if the ARB does not issue a notice accepting a petition within 30 calendar days after the receipt of a timely filing of the petition, the decision of the ALJ is the final agency action. If a petition for review is accepted, the decision of the ALJ will be stayed unless and until the ARB issues an order affirming the decision. The ARB must serve notice of its decision to accept or not to accept the petition upon the ALJ and upon all parties to the proceeding.
(ii) Upon receipt of the ARB's notice to accept the petition, the Office of Administrative Law Judges will promptly forward a copy of the complete hearing record to the ARB.
(iii) Where the ARB has determined to review the decision and order, the ARB will notify each party of the issue(s) raised, the form in which submissions must be made (e.g., briefs or oral argument), and the time within which the presentation must be submitted.
(6)
ARB Decision.
The ARB's final decision must be issued within 90 calendar days from the notice granting the petition and served upon all parties and the ALJ.
(h)
Concurrent debarment jurisdiction.
OFLC and the WHD have concurrent jurisdiction to debar under this section or under 29 CFR 503.24. When considering debarment, OFLC and the WHD
will coordinate their activities. A specific violation for which debarment is imposed will be cited in a single debarment proceeding. Copies of final debarment decisions will be forwarded to DHS and DOS promptly.
(i)
Debarment from other foreign labor programs.
Upon debarment under this subpart or 29 CFR 503.24, the debarred party will be disqualified from filing any labor certification applications or labor condition applications with the Department of Labor by, or on behalf of, the debarred party for the same period of time set forth in the final debarment decision.
§§ 655.74-655.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Labor Certification Process for Temporary Agricultural Employment in the United States (H-2A Workers)

# Source:
87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, unless otherwise noted.
§ 655.100
Purpose and scope of this subpart.
(a)
Purpose.
(1) A temporary agricultural labor certification issued under this subpart reflects a determination by the Secretary of Labor (Secretary), pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1188(a), that:
(i) There are not sufficient able, willing, and qualified United States (U.S.) workers available to perform the agricultural labor or services of a temporary or seasonal nature for which an employer desires to hire temporary foreign workers (H-2A workers); and
(ii) The employment of the H-2A worker(s) will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of workers in the United States similarly employed.
(2) This subpart describes the process by which the Department of Labor (Department or DOL) makes such a determination and certifies its determination to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
(b)
Scope.
This subpart sets forth the procedures governing the labor certification process for the temporary employment of foreign workers in the H-2A nonimmigrant classification, as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a). It also establishes standards and obligations with respect to the terms and conditions of the temporary agricultural labor certification with which H-2A employers must comply, as well as the rights and obligations of H-2A workers and workers in corresponding employment. Additionally, this subpart sets forth integrity measures for ensuring employers' continued compliance with the terms and conditions of the temporary agricultural labor certification.
§ 655.101
Authority of the agencies, offices, and divisions in the Department of Labor.
(a)
Authority and role of the Office of Foreign Labor Certification.
The Secretary has delegated authority to the Assistant Secretary for the Employment and Training Administration (ETA), who in turn has delegated that authority to the Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC), to issue certifications and carry out other statutory responsibilities as required by 8 U.S.C. 1188. Determinations on an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
are made by the OFLC Administrator who, in turn, may delegate this responsibility to designated staff, e.g., a Certifying Officer (CO).
(b)
Authority of the Wage and Hour Division.
The Secretary has delegated authority to the Wage and Hour Division (WHD) to conduct certain investigatory and enforcement functions with respect to terms and conditions of employment under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, and this subpart (“the H-2A program”), and to carry out other statutory responsibilities required by 8 U.S.C. 1188. The regulations governing WHD's investigatory and enforcement functions, including those related to the enforcement of temporary agricultural labor certifications issued under this subpart, are in 29 CFR part 501.
(c)
Concurrent authority.
OFLC and WHD have concurrent authority to impose a debarment remedy pursuant to § 655.182 and 29 CFR 501.20.
§ 655.102
Transition procedures.
(a) The National Processing Center (NPC) shall continue to process an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
submitted prior to November 14, 2022, in accordance with 20 CFR part
655, subpart B, in effect as of November 13, 2022.
(b) The NPC shall process an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
submitted on or after November 14, 2022, and that has a first date of need no later than February 12, 2023, in accordance with 20 CFR part 655, subpart B, in effect as of November 13, 2022.
(c) The NPC shall process an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
submitted on or after November 14, 2022, and that has a first date of need later than February 12, 2023, in accordance with all job order and application filing requirements under this subpart.
§ 655.103
Overview of this subpart and definition of terms.
(a)
Overview.
In order to bring nonimmigrant workers to the United States to perform agricultural work, an employer must first demonstrate to the Secretary that there are not sufficient U.S. workers able, willing, and qualified to perform the work in the area of intended employment at the time needed and that the employment of foreign workers will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of workers in the United States similarly employed. This subpart describes a process by which the DOL makes such a determination and certifies its determination to the DHS.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart:
Act.
The Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ).
A person within the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Administrator. See
definitions of OFLC Administrator and WHD Administrator in this paragraph (b).
Adverse effect wage rate (AEWR).
The wage rate published by the OFLC Administrator in the
Federal Register
for non-range occupations as set forth in § 655.120(b) and range occupations as set forth in § 655.211(c).
Adverse effect wage rate (AEWR).
The wage rate published by the OFLC Administrator in the
Federal Register
for non-range occupations as set forth in § 655.120(b) and range occupations as set forth in § 655.211(c).
Agent.
A legal entity or person, such as an association of agricultural employers, or an attorney for an association, that:
(i) Is authorized to act on behalf of the employer for temporary agricultural labor certification purposes;
(ii) Is not itself an employer, or a joint employer, as defined in this subpart with respect to a specific application; and
(iii) Is not under suspension, debarment, expulsion, or disbarment from practice before any court, the Department, or the Executive Office for Immigration Review or DHS under 8 CFR 292.3 or 1003.101.
Agricultural association.
Any nonprofit or cooperative association of farmers, growers, or ranchers (including, but not limited to, processing establishments, canneries, gins, packing sheds, nurseries, or other similar fixed-site agricultural employers), incorporated or qualified under applicable State law, that recruits, solicits, hires, employs, furnishes, houses, or transports any worker that is subject to 8 U.S.C. 1188. An agricultural association may act as the agent of an employer, or may act as the sole or joint employer of any worker subject to 8 U.S.C. 1188.
Applicant.
A U.S. worker who is applying for a job opportunity for which an employer has filed an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order.
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB)-approved Form ETA-9142A and appropriate appendices submitted by an employer to secure a temporary agricultural labor certification determination from DOL.
Area of intended employment (AIE).
The geographic area within normal commuting distance of the place of employment for which temporary agricultural labor certification is sought. There is no rigid measure of distance that constitutes a normal commuting distance or normal commuting area, because there may be widely varying factual circumstances among different areas (e.g., average commuting times,
barriers to reaching the place of employment, or quality of the regional transportation network). If a place of employment is within an MSA, including a multistate MSA, any place within the MSA is deemed to be within normal commuting distance of the place of employment. The borders of MSAs are not controlling in the identification of the normal commuting area; a place of employment outside of an MSA may be within normal commuting distance of a place of employment that is inside (e.g., near the border of) the MSA.
Attorney.
Any person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State, possession, territory, or commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia (DC). Such a person is also permitted to act as an agent under this subpart. No attorney who is under suspension, debarment, expulsion, or disbarment from practice before any court, the Department, or the Executive Office for Immigration Review or DHS under 8 CFR 292.3 or 1003.101, may represent an employer under this subpart.
Average adverse effect wage rate (average AEWR).
The simple average of the adverse effect wage rates (AEWR) applicable to the SOC 45-2092 (Farmworkers and Laborers, Crop, Nursery, and Greenhouse) and published by the OFLC Administrator in accordance with § 655.120. An average AEWR remains valid until replaced with an adjusted average AEWR.
Board of Alien Labor Certification Appeals (BALCA or Board).
The permanent Board established by part 656 of this chapter, chaired by the Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ), and consisting of Administrative Law Judges (ALJs) appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 and designated by the Chief ALJ to be members of Board of Alien Labor Certification Appeals (BALCA or Board).
Certifying Officer (CO).
The person who makes a determination on an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
filed under the H-2A program. The OFLC Administrator is the national CO. Other COs may be designated by the OFLC Administrator to also make the determinations required under this subpart.
Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ).
The chief official of the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges or the Chief ALJ's designee.
Corresponding employment.
The employment of workers who are not H-2A workers by an employer who has an approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in any work included in the job order, or in any agricultural work performed by the H-2A workers. To qualify as corresponding employment, the work must be performed during the validity period of the job order, including any approved extension thereof.
Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
The Department of Homeland Security, as established by 6 U.S.C. 111.
Employee.
A person who is engaged to perform work for an employer, as defined under the general common law of agency. Some of the factors relevant to the determination of employee status include: the hiring party's right to control the manner and means by which the work is accomplished; the skill required to perform the work; the source of the instrumentalities and tools for accomplishing the work; the location of the work; the hiring party's discretion over when and how long to work; and whether the work is part of the regular business of the hiring party. Other applicable factors may be considered and no one factor is dispositive.
Employer.
A person (including any individual, partnership, association, corporation, cooperative, firm, joint stock company, trust, or other organization with legal rights and duties) that:
(i) Has an employment relationship (such as the ability to hire, pay, fire, supervise, or otherwise control the work of employee) with respect to an H-2A worker or a worker in corresponding employment; or
(ii) Files an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
other than as an agent; or
(iii) Is a person on whose behalf an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is filed.
Employment and Training Administration (ETA).
The agency within the Department that includes OFLC and has
been delegated authority by the Secretary to fulfill the Secretary's mandate under the INA and DHS' implementing regulations in 8 CFR chapter I, subchapter B, for the administration and adjudication of an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and related functions.
Federal holiday.
Legal public holiday as defined at 5 U.S.C. 6103.
First date of need.
The first date the employer requires the labor or services of H-2A workers as indicated in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Fixed-site employer.
Any person engaged in agriculture who meets the definition of an employer, as those terms are defined in this subpart; who owns or operates a farm, ranch, processing establishment, cannery, gin, packing shed, nursery, or other similar fixed-site location where agricultural activities are performed; and who recruits, solicits, hires, employs, houses, or transports any worker subject to 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart as incident to or in conjunction with the owner's or operator's own agricultural operation.
H-2A labor contractor (H-2ALC).
Any person who meets the definition of employer under this subpart and is not a fixed-site employer, an agricultural association, or an employee of a fixed-site employer or agricultural association, as those terms are used in this subpart, who recruits, solicits, hires, employs, furnishes, houses, or transports any worker subject to 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart.
H-2A Petition.
The USCIS Form I-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker, with H Supplement or successor form and/or supplement, and accompanying documentation required by DHS for employers seeking to employ foreign persons as H-2A nonimmigrant workers.
H-2A worker.
Any temporary foreign worker who is lawfully present in the United States and authorized by DHS to perform agricultural labor or services of a temporary or seasonal nature pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a), as amended.
Job offer.
The offer made by an employer or potential employer of H-2A workers to both U.S. and H-2A workers describing all the material terms and conditions of employment, including those relating to wages, working conditions, and other benefits.
Job opportunity.
Full-time employment at a place in the United States to which U.S. workers can be referred.
Job order.
The document containing the material terms and conditions of employment that is posted by the State Workforce Agency (SWA) on its interstate and intrastate job clearance systems based on the employer's
Agricultural Clearance Order
(Form ETA-790/ETA-790A and all appropriate addenda), as submitted to the NPC.
Joint employment.
(i) Where two or more employers each have sufficient definitional indicia of being a joint employer of a worker under the common law of agency, they are, at all times, joint employers of that worker.
(ii) An agricultural association that files an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
as a joint employer is, at all times, a joint employer of all the H-2A workers sponsored under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and all workers in corresponding employment. An employer-member of an agricultural association that files an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
as a joint employer is a joint employer of the H-2A workers sponsored under the joint employer
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
along with the agricultural association during the period that the employer-member employs the H-2A workers sponsored under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(iii) Employers that jointly file a joint employer
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
under § 655.131(b) are, at all times, joint employers of all the H-2A workers sponsored under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and all workers in corresponding employment.
Key service provider.
A health-care provider; a community health worker; an education provider; a translator or interpreter; an attorney, legal advocate, or other legal service provider; a government official, including a consular representative; a member of the clergy; an emergency services provider;
a law enforcement officer; and any other provider of similar services.
Labor organization.
Any organization of any kind, or any agency or employee representation committee or plan, in which workers participate and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment, or conditions of work.
Master application.
An
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
filed by an association of agricultural producers as a joint employer with its employer-members. A master application must cover the same occupations or comparable agricultural employment; the first date of need for all employer-members listed on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may be separated by no more than 14 calendar days; and may cover multiple areas of intended employment within a single State but no more than two contiguous States.
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA).
A geographic entity defined by OMB for use by Federal statistical agencies in collecting, tabulating, and publishing Federal statistics. A Metropolitan Statistical Area contains a core urban area of 50,000 or more population, and a Micropolitan Statistical Area contains an urban core of at least 10,000 (but fewer than 50,000) population. Each metropolitan or micropolitan area consists of one or more counties and includes the counties containing the core urban area, as well as any adjacent counties that have a high degree of social and economic integration (as measured by commuting to work) with the urban core.
National Processing Center (NPC).
The offices within OFLC in which the COs operate and which are charged with the adjudication of
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.
Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC).
OFLC means the organizational component of ETA that provides national leadership and policy guidance, and develops regulations and procedures to carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary under the INA concerning the admission of foreign workers to the United States to perform work described in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a).
OFLC Administrator.
The primary official of OFLC, or the OFLC Administrator's designee.
Period of employment.
The time during which the employer requires the labor or services of H-2A workers as indicated by the first and last dates of need provided in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Piece rate.
A form of wage compensation based upon a worker's quantitative output or one unit of work or production for the crop or agricultural activity.
Place of employment.
A worksite or physical location where work under the job order actually is performed by the H-2A workers and workers in corresponding employment.
Positive recruitment.
The active participation of an employer or its authorized hiring agent, performed under the auspices and direction of OFLC, in recruiting and interviewing individuals in the area where the employer's job opportunity is located, and any other State designated by the Secretary as an area of traditional or expected labor supply with respect to the area where the employer's job opportunity is located, in an effort to fill specific job openings with U.S. workers.
Prevailing practice.
A practice engaged in by employers, that:
(i) Fifty percent or more of employers in an area and for an occupation engage in the practice or offer the benefit; and
(ii) This 50 percent or more of employers also employs 50 percent or more of U.S. workers in the occupation and area (including H-2A and non-H-2A employers) for purposes of determinations concerning the provision of family housing, and frequency of wage payments, but non-H-2A employers only for determinations concerning the provision of advance transportation and the utilization of labor contractors.
Prevailing wage.
A wage rate established by the OFLC Administrator for a crop activity or agricultural activity and, if applicable, a distinct work task or tasks performed in that activity and geographic area based on a survey conducted by a State that meets the requirements in § 655.120(c).
Secretary of Homeland Security.
The chief official of DHS, or the Secretary of Homeland Security's designee.
Secretary of Labor (Secretary).
The chief official of the Department, or the Secretary's designee.
State Workforce Agency (SWA).
State government agency that receives funds pursuant to the Wagner-Peyser Act, 29 U.S.C. 49 et seq., to administer the State's public labor exchange activities.
Strike.
A concerted stoppage of work by employees as a result of a labor dispute, or any concerted slowdown or other concerted interruption of operation (including stoppage by reason of the expiration of a collective bargaining agreement).
Successor in interest.
(i) Where an employer, agent, or attorney has violated 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart, and has ceased doing business or cannot be located for purposes of enforcement, a successor in interest to that employer, agent, or attorney may be held liable for the duties and obligations of the violating employer, agent, or attorney in certain circumstances. The following factors, as used under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act, may be considered in determining whether an employer, agent, or attorney is a successor in interest; no one factor is dispositive, but all of the circumstances will be considered as a whole:
(A) Substantial continuity of the same business operations;
(B) Use of the same facilities;
(C) Continuity of the work force;
(D) Similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(E) Similarity of supervisory personnel;
(F) Whether the former management or owner retains a direct or indirect interest in the new enterprise;
(G) Similarity in machinery, equipment, and production methods;
(H) Similarity of products and services; and
(I) The ability of the predecessor to provide relief.
(ii) For purposes of debarment only, the primary consideration will be the personal involvement of the firm's ownership, management, supervisors, and others associated with the firm in the violation(s) at issue.
Temporary agricultural labor certification.
Certification made by the OFLC Administrator, based on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
job order, and all supporting documentation, with respect to an employer seeking to file an H-2A Petition with DHS to employ one or more foreign nationals as an H-2A worker, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a), 1184(a) and (c), and 1188, and this subpart.
United States.
The continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).
An operational component of DHS.
U.S. worker.
A worker who is:
(i) A citizen or national of the United States;
(ii) An individual who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States, is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157, is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158, or is an immigrant otherwise authorized by the INA or DHS to be employed in the United States; or
(iii) An individual who is not an unauthorized alien, as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1324a(h)(3), with respect to the employment in which the worker is engaging.
Wage and Hour Division (WHD).
The agency within the Department with authority to conduct certain investigatory and enforcement functions, as delegated by the Secretary, under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, and this subpart.
Wages.
All forms of cash remuneration to a worker by an employer in payment for labor or services.
WHD Administrator.
The primary official of WHD, or the WHD Administrator's designee.
Work contract.
All the material terms and conditions of employment relating to wages, hours, working conditions, and other benefits, including those required by 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart. The contract between the employer and the worker may be in the form of a separate written document. In the absence of a separate
written work contract incorporating the required terms and conditions of employment, agreed to by both the employer and the worker, the work contract at a minimum will be the terms and conditions of the job order and any obligations required under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart.
(c)
Definition of agricultural labor or services.
For the purposes of this subpart, agricultural labor or services, pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1011(a)(15)(H)(ii)(a), is defined as: agricultural labor as defined and applied in sec. 3121(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 at 26 U.S.C. 3121(g); agriculture as defined and applied in sec. 3(f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (FLSA), at 29 U.S.C. 203(f); the pressing of apples for cider on a farm; or logging employment. An occupation included in either statutory definition is agricultural labor or services, notwithstanding the exclusion of that occupation from the other statutory definition. For informational purposes, the statutory provisions are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Agricultural labor.
(i) For the purpose of paragraph (c) of this section, agricultural labor means all service performed:
(A) On a farm, in the employ of any person, in connection with cultivating the soil, or in connection with raising or harvesting any agricultural or horticultural commodity, including the raising, shearing, feeding, caring for, training, and management of livestock, bees, poultry, and fur-bearing animals and wildlife;
(B) In the employ of the owner or tenant or other operator of a farm, in connection with the operation, management, conservation, improvement, or maintenance of such farm and its tools and equipment, or in salvaging timber or clearing land of brush and other debris left by a hurricane, if the major part of such service is performed on a farm;
(C) In connection with the production or harvesting of any commodity defined as an agricultural commodity in sec. 15(g) of the Agricultural Marketing Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1141j, or in connection with the ginning of cotton, or in connection with the operation or maintenance of ditches, canals, reservoirs, or waterways, not owned or operated for profit, used exclusively for supplying and storing water for farming purposes;
(D) In the employ of the operator of a farm in handling, planting, drying, packing, packaging, processing, freezing, grading, storing, or delivering to storage or to market or to a carrier for transportation to market, in its unmanufactured state, any agricultural or horticultural commodity; but only if such operator produced more than one-half of the commodity with respect to which such service is performed;
(E) In the employ of a group of operators of farms (other than a cooperative organization) in the performance of service described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section but only if such operators produced all of the commodity with respect to which such service is performed. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1)(i)(E), any unincorporated group of operators shall be deemed a cooperative organization if the number of operators comprising such group is more than 20 at any time during the calendar year in which such service is performed;
(F) The provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(D) and (E) of this section shall not be deemed to be applicable with respect to service performed in connection with commercial canning or commercial freezing or in connection with any agricultural or horticultural commodity after its delivery to a terminal market for distribution for consumption; or
(G) On a farm operated for profit if such service is not in the course of the employer's trade or business or is domestic service in a private home of the employer.
(ii) As used in this section, the term “farm” includes stock, dairy, poultry, fruit, fur-bearing animal, and truck farms, plantations, ranches, nurseries, ranges, greenhouses, or other similar structures used primarily for the raising of agricultural or horticultural commodities, and orchards.
(2)
Agriculture.
For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, agriculture means farming in all its branches and
among other things includes the cultivation and tillage of the soil, dairying, the production, cultivation, growing, and harvesting of any agricultural or horticultural commodities (including commodities defined as agricultural commodities in 12 U.S.C. 1141j(g), the raising of livestock, bees, fur-bearing animals, or poultry, and any practices (including any forestry or lumbering operations) performed by a farmer or on a farm as an incident to or in conjunction with such farming operations, including preparation for market, delivery to storage or to market or to carriers for transportation to market.
See
29 U.S.C. 203(f), as amended. Under 12 U.S.C. 1141j(g), agricultural commodities include, in addition to other agricultural commodities, crude gum (oleoresin) from a living tree, and the following products as processed by the original producer of the crude gum (oleoresin) from which derived: gum spirits of turpentine and gum rosin. In addition, as defined in 7 U.S.C. 92, gum spirits of turpentine means spirits of turpentine made from gum (oleoresin) from a living tree and gum rosin means rosin remaining after the distillation of gum spirits of turpentine.
(3)
Apple pressing for cider.
The pressing of apples for cider on a farm, as the term farm is defined and applied in sec. 3121(g) of the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 3121(g), or as applied in sec. 3(f) of the FLSA at 29 U.S.C. 203(f), pursuant to 29 CFR part 780.
(4)
Logging employment.
Logging employment is operations associated with felling and moving trees and logs from the stump to the point of delivery, such as, but not limited to, marking danger trees, marking trees or logs to be cut to length, felling, limbing, bucking, debarking, chipping, yarding, loading, unloading, storing, and transporting machines, equipment and personnel to, from, and between logging sites.
(5)
Employment as defined and specified in §§ 655.300 through 655.304.
For the purpose of paragraph (c) of this section, agricultural labor or services includes animal shearing, commercial beekeeping, and custom combining activities as defined and specified in §§ 655.300 through 655.304.
(d)
Definition of a temporary or seasonal nature.
For the purposes of this subpart, employment is of a seasonal nature where it is tied to a certain time of year by an event or pattern, such as a short annual growing cycle or a specific aspect of a longer cycle, and requires labor levels far above those necessary for ongoing operations. Employment is of a temporary nature where the employer's need to fill the position with a temporary worker will, except in extraordinary circumstances, last no longer than 1 year.
(e)
Definition of single employer for purposes of temporary or seasonal need and contractual obligations.
Separate entities will be deemed a single employer (sometimes referred to as an “integrated employer”) for purposes of assessing temporary or seasonal need and for enforcement of contractual obligations if they meet the definition of single employer in this paragraph (e). Under the definition of single employer, a determination of whether separate entities are a single employer is not determined by a single factor, but rather the entire relationship is viewed in its totality. Factors considered in determining whether two or more entities consist of a single employer include:
(1) Common management;
(2) Interrelation between operations;
(3) Centralized control of labor relations; and
(4) Degree of common ownership/financial control.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 12801, Feb. 28, 2023; 89 FR 34059, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.104
Successors in interest.
(a)
Liability of successors in interest.
Where an employer, agent, or attorney has violated 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart, a successor in interest to that employer, agent, or attorney may be held liable for the duties and obligations of the violating employer, agent, or attorney in certain circumstances, regardless of whether such successor in interest has succeeded to all the rights and liabilities of the predecessor employer, agent, or attorney.
(b)
Definition of successors in interest.
The following factors, including those
as used under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act, may be considered in determining whether an employer, agent, or attorney is a successor in interest; however, these factors are not exhaustive, and no one factor is dispositive, but all of the circumstances will be considered as a whole:
(1) Substantial continuity of the same business operations;
(2) Use of the same facilities;
(3) Continuity of the work force;
(4) Similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(5) Similarity of supervisory personnel;
(6) Whether the former management or owner retains a direct or indirect interest in the new enterprise;
(7) Similarity in machinery, equipment, and production methods;
(8) Similarity of products and services;
(9) The ability of the predecessor to provide relief; and
(10) For purposes of debarment, the personal involvement of the firm's ownership, management, supervisors, and others associated with the firm in the violation(s) at issue.
(c)
Effect of debarment on successors in interest.
When an employer, agent, or attorney is debarred under § 655.182 or 29 CFR 501.20, any successor in interest to the debarred employer, agent, or attorney is also debarred. No application for H-2A workers may be filed by or on behalf of a successor in interest to a debarred employer, agent, or attorney, subject to the term limits set forth in § 655.182(c)(2). If the CO determines that an application for H-2A workers was filed by or on behalf of a successor in interest to a debarred employer, agent, or attorney during the period of debarment as set forth in § 655.182(c)(2), the CO will issue a Notice of Deficiency (NOD) pursuant to § 655.141 or deny the application pursuant to § 655.164, as appropriate depending upon the status of the H-2A application, solely on the basis that the entity is a successor in interest to a debarred employer, agent, or attorney. If the OFLC Administrator determines that a certification for H-2A workers was issued to a successor in interest to a debarred employer, the OFLC Administrator may revoke the certification pursuant to § 655.181(a). The employer, agent, or attorney may appeal its status as a successor in interest to the debarred entity, pursuant to the procedures for appeals of CO determinations at § 655.171.
[89 FR 34060, Apr. 29, 2024]

# Pre-Filing Procedures
§ 655.120
Offered wage rate.
(a)
Employer obligation.
(1) Except for occupations covered by §§ 655.200 through 655.235, to comply with its obligation under § 655.122(l), an employer must offer, advertise in its recruitment, and pay a wage that is at least the highest of:
(i) The AEWR;
(ii) A prevailing wage rate, whether expressed as a piece rate or other unit of pay, if the OFLC Administrator has approved a prevailing wage survey for the applicable crop activity or agricultural activity and, if applicable, a distinct work task or tasks performed in that activity, meeting the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section;
(iii) The agreed-upon collective bargaining wage;
(iv) The Federal minimum wage;
(v) The State minimum wage; or
(vi) Any other wage rate the employer intends to pay.
(2) Where the wage rates set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are expressed in different units of pay (including piece rates or other pay structures), the employer must list the highest applicable wage rate for each unit of pay in its job order and must offer and advertise all of these wage rates in its recruitment. The employer's obligation to pay the highest of these wage rates is set forth at § 655.122(l)(2).
(b)
AEWR determinations.
(1) Except for occupations governed by the procedures in §§ 655.200 through 655.235, the OFLC Administrator will determine the AEWRs as follows:
(i) For occupations included in the Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Farm Labor Survey (FLS) field and livestock workers (combined) category:
(A) If an annual average hourly gross wage in the State or region is reported
by the FLS, that wage shall be the AEWR for the State; or
(B) If an annual average hourly gross wage in the State or region is not reported by the FLS, the AEWR for the occupations shall be the statewide annual average hourly gross wage in the State as reported by the Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics (OEWS) survey; or
(C) If a statewide annual average hourly gross wage in the State is not reported by the OEWS survey, the AEWR for the occupations shall be the national annual average hourly gross wage as reported by the OEWS survey.
(ii) For all other occupations:
(A) The AEWR for each occupation shall be the statewide annual average hourly gross wage for that occupation in the State as reported by the OEWS survey; or
(B) If a statewide annual average hourly gross wage in the State is not reported by the OEWS survey, the AEWR for each occupation shall be the national annual average hourly gross wage for that occupation as reported by the OEWS survey.
(iii) The AEWR methodologies described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section shall apply to all job orders submitted, as set forth in § 655.121, on or after March 30, 2023, including job orders filed concurrently with an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
to the NPC for emergency situations under § 655.134. For purposes of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, the term
State
and
statewide
include the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(2) The OFLC Administrator will publish a notice in the
Federal Register,
at least once in each calendar year, on a date to be determined by the OFLC Administrator, establishing each AEWR. The updated AEWR will be effective as of the date of publication of the notice in the
Federal Register
.
(3) If an updated AEWR for the occupational classification and geographic area is published in the
Federal Register
during the work contract, and the updated AEWR is higher than the highest of the previous AEWR; a prevailing wage for the crop activity or agricultural activity and, if applicable, a distinct work task or tasks performed in that activity and geographic area; the agreed-upon collective bargaining wage; the Federal minimum wage; or the State minimum wage, the employer must pay at least the updated AEWR beginning on the date the updated AEWR is published in the
Federal Register
.
(4) If an updated AEWR for the occupational classification and geographic area is published in the
Federal Register
during the work contract, and the updated AEWR is lower than the rate guaranteed on the job order, the employer must continue to pay at least the rate guaranteed on the job order.
(5) If the job duties on the job order cannot be encompassed within a single occupational classification, the applicable AEWR shall be the highest AEWR for all applicable occupations.
(c)
Prevailing wage determinations.
(1) The OFLC Administrator will issue a prevailing wage for a crop activity or agricultural activity and, if applicable, a distinct work task or tasks performed in that activity if all of the following requirements are met:
(i) The SWA submits to the Department a wage survey for the crop activity or agricultural activity and, if applicable, a distinct work task or tasks performed in that activity and a Form ETA-232 providing the methodology of the survey;
(ii) The survey was independently conducted by the State, including any State agency, State college, or State university;
(iii) The survey covers work performed in a single crop activity or agricultural activity and, if applicable, a distinct work task or tasks performed in that activity;
(iv) The surveyor either made a reasonable, good faith attempt to contact all employers employing workers in the crop activity or agricultural activity and distinct work task(s), if applicable, and geographic area surveyed or contacted a randomized sample of such employers, except where the estimated universe of employers is less than five. Where the estimated universe of employers is less than five, the surveyor contacted all employers in the estimated universe;
(v) The survey reports the average wage of U.S. workers in the crop activity or agricultural activity and distinct work task(s), if applicable, and geographic area using the unit of pay used to compensate the largest number of U.S. workers whose wages are reported in the survey;
(vi) The survey covers an appropriate geographic area based on available resources to conduct the survey, the size of the agricultural population covered by the survey, and any different wage structures in the crop activity or agricultural activity within the State;
(vii) Where the estimated universe of U.S. workers is at least 30, the survey includes the wages of at least 30 U.S. workers in the unit of pay used to compensate the largest number of U.S. workers whose wages are reported in the survey. Where the estimated universe of U.S. workers is less than 30, the survey includes the wages of all such U.S. workers;
(viii) Where the estimated universe of employers is at least five, the survey includes wages of U.S. workers employed by at least five employers in the unit of pay used to compensate the largest number of U.S. workers whose wages are reported in the survey. Where the estimated universe of employers is less than five, the survey includes wages of U.S. workers employed by all such employers; and
(ix) Where the estimated universe of employers is at least 4, the wages paid by a single employer represent no more than 25 percent of the sampled wages in the unit of pay used to compensate the largest number of U.S. workers whose wages are reported in the survey. This paragraph (c)(1)(ix) does not apply where the estimated universe of employers is less than four.
(2) A prevailing wage issued by the OFLC Administrator will remain valid for 1 year after the wage is posted on the OFLC website or until replaced with an adjusted prevailing wage, whichever comes first, except that if a prevailing wage that was guaranteed on the job order expires during the work contract, the employer must continue to guarantee at least the expired prevailing wage rate.
(3) If a prevailing wage for the geographic area and crop activity or agricultural activity and distinct work task(s), if applicable, is adjusted during a work contract, and is higher than the highest of the AEWR, a previous prevailing wage for the geographic area and crop activity or agricultural activity or, if applicable, a distinct work task or tasks performed in that activity, the agreed-upon collective bargaining wage, the Federal minimum wage, or the State minimum wage, the employer must pay at least that higher prevailing wage upon the Department's notice to the employer of the new prevailing wage.
(4) If a prevailing wage for the geographic area and crop activity or agricultural activity and distinct work task(s), if applicable, is adjusted during a work contract, and is lower than the rate guaranteed on the job order, the employer must continue to pay at least the rate guaranteed on the job order.
(d)
Appeals.
(1) If the employer does not include the appropriate offered wage rate on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the CO will issue a Notice of Deficiency (NOD) requiring the employer to correct the wage rate.
(2) If the employer disagrees with the wage rate required by the CO, the employer may appeal only after the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is denied, and the employer must follow the procedures in § 655.171.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 12801, Feb. 28, 2023; 89 FR 34060, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.121
Job order filing requirements.
(a)
What to file.
(1) Prior to filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the employer must submit a completed job order, Form ETA-790/790A, including all required addenda, to the NPC designated by the OFLC Administrator, and must identify it as a job order to be placed in connection with a future
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for H-2A workers. The employer must include in its submission to the NPC a valid Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN) as well as a valid place of business (physical location) in the United States and a means by which it may be contacted for employment.
(2) Where the job order is being placed in connection with a future master application to be filed by an agricultural association as a joint employer with its employer-members, the agricultural association may submit a single job order to be placed in the name of the agricultural association on behalf of all employers named on the job order and the future
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(3) Where the job order is being placed in connection with a future application to be jointly filed by two or more employers seeking to jointly employ a worker(s) (but is not a master application), any one of the employers may submit a single job order to be placed on behalf of all joint employers named on the job order and the future
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(4) The job order must satisfy the requirements for agricultural clearance orders set forth in 20 CFR part 653, subpart F, and the requirements set forth in § 655.122.
(b)
Timeliness.
The employer must submit a completed job order to the NPC no more than 75 calendar days and no fewer than 60 calendar days before the employer's first date of need.
(c)
Location and method of filing.
The employer must submit a completed job order to the NPC using the electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. The NPC will return without review any job order submitted using a method other than the designated electronic method(s), unless the employer submits the job order by mail as set forth in § 655.130(c)(2) or requests a reasonable accommodation as set forth in § 655.130(c)(3).
(d)
Original signature.
The job order must contain an electronic (scanned) copy of the original signature of the employer or a verifiable electronic signature method, as directed by the OFLC Administrator. If submitted by mail, the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must bear the original signature of the employer and, if applicable, the employer's authorized agent or attorney.
(e)
SWA review.
(1) Upon receipt of the job order, the NPC will transmit an electronic copy of the job order to the SWA serving the area of intended employment for intrastate clearance. If the job opportunity is located in more than one State within the same area of intended employment, the NPC will transmit the job order to any one of the SWAs having jurisdiction over the place(s) of employment.
(2) The SWA will review the contents of the job order for compliance with the requirements set forth in 20 CFR part 653, subpart F, and this subpart, and will work with the employer to address any noted deficiencies. The SWA must notify the employer in writing of any deficiencies in its job order not later than 7 calendar days from the date the SWA received the job order. The SWA notification will state the reason(s) the job order fails to meet the applicable requirements, state the modification(s) needed for the SWA to accept the job order, and offer the employer an opportunity to respond to the deficiencies within 5 calendar days from the date the notification was issued by the SWA. Upon receipt of a response, the SWA will review the response and notify the employer in writing of its acceptance or denial of the job order within 3 calendar days from the date the response was received by the SWA. If the employer's response is not received within 12 calendar days after the notification was issued, the SWA will notify the employer in writing that the job order is deemed abandoned, and the employer will be required to submit a new job order to the NPC meeting the requirements of this section. Any notice sent by the SWA to an employer that requires a response must be sent using methods to assure next day delivery, including email or other electronic methods, with a copy to the employer's representative, as applicable.
(3) If, after providing responses to the deficiencies noted by the SWA, the employer is not able to resolve the deficiencies with the SWA, the employer may file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
pursuant to the emergency filing procedures contained in § 655.134, with a statement describing the nature of the dispute and demonstrating compliance with its requirements under this section. In the event the SWA does not respond within the stated timelines, the employer may
use the emergency filing procedures noted in the preceding sentence. The CO will process the emergency
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in a manner consistent with the provisions set forth in §§ 655.140 through 655.145 and make a determination on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with §§ 655.160 through 655.167.
(f)
Intrastate clearance.
Upon its acceptance of the job order, the SWA must promptly place the job order in intrastate clearance and commence recruitment of U.S. workers. Where the employer's job order references an area of intended employment that falls within the jurisdiction of more than one SWA, the originating SWA will notify the NPC that a copy of the approved job order must be forwarded to the other SWAs serving the area of intended employment. Upon receipt of the SWA notification, the NPC will promptly transmit an electronic copy of the approved job order to the other SWAs serving the area of intended employment.
(g)
Duration of job order posting.
The SWA must keep the job order on its active file until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d), and must refer each U.S. worker who applies (or on whose behalf an application is made) for the job opportunity.
(h)
Modifications to the job order.
(1) Prior to the issuance of a final determination on an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the CO may require modifications to the job order when the CO determines that the offer of employment does not contain all the minimum benefits, wages, and working condition provisions. Such modifications must be made, or certification will be denied pursuant to § 655.164.
(2) The employer may request a modification of the job order, Form ETA-790/790A, prior to the submission of an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
However, the employer may not reject referrals against the job order based upon a failure on the part of the applicant to meet the amended criteria, if such referral was made prior to the amendment of the job order. The employer may not request a modification of the job order on or after the date of filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(3) The employer must provide all workers recruited in connection with the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with a copy of the modified job order or work contract which reflects the amended terms and conditions, on the first day of employment, in accordance with § 655.122(q), or as soon as practicable, whichever comes first.
§ 655.122
Contents of job offers.
(a)
Prohibition against preferential treatment of H-2A workers.
The employer's job offer must offer to U.S. workers no less than the same benefits, wages, and working conditions that the employer is offering, intends to offer, or will provide to H-2A workers. Job offers may not impose on U.S. workers any restrictions or obligations that will not be imposed on the employer's H-2A workers. This does not relieve the employer from providing to H-2A workers at least the same level of minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions that must be offered to U.S. workers consistent with this section.
(b)
Job qualifications and requirements.
Each job qualification and requirement listed in the job offer must be bona fide and consistent with the normal and accepted qualifications required by employers that do not use H-2A workers in the same or comparable occupations and crops. Either the CO or the SWA may require the employer to submit documentation to substantiate the appropriateness of any job qualification specified in the job offer.
(c)
Minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions.
Every job order accompanying an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must include each of the minimum benefit, wage, and working condition provisions listed in paragraphs (d) through (q) of this section.
(d)
Housing
—(1)
Obligation to provide housing.
The employer must provide housing at no cost to the H-2A workers and those workers in corresponding employment who are not reasonably able to return to their residence within the same day. Housing must be provided through one of the following means:
(i)
Employer-provided housing.
Employer-provided housing must meet the full set of the DOL Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards set forth at 29 CFR 1910.142, or the full set of standards at §§ 654.404 through 654.417 of this chapter, whichever are applicable under § 654.401 of this chapter. Requests by employers whose housing does not meet the applicable standards for conditional access to the interstate clearance system will be processed under the procedures set forth at § 654.403 of this chapter; or
(ii)
Rental and/or public accommodations.
Rental or public accommodations or other substantially similar class of habitation must meet local standards for such housing. In the absence of applicable local standards addressing those health or safety concerns otherwise addressed by the DOL OSHA standards at 29 CFR 1910.142(b)(2) (minimum square footage); (b)(3) (beds, cots, or bunks, and suitable storage facilities); (b)(9) (minimum square footage in a room where workers cook, live, and sleep); (b)(10) (where the employer chooses to meet its meal obligations under paragraph (g) of this section by furnishing free and convenient cooking and kitchen facilities to the workers, the provision of stoves, sanitary kitchen facilities); (b)(11) (heating, cooking, and water heating equipment installed properly); (c) (water supply); (d)(1) (adequate toilet facilities); (d)(9) (adequate toilet paper); (d)(10) (toilets kept in sanitary condition); (f) (laundry, handwashing, and bathing facilities); (g) (lighting); (h)(2) (garbage containers kept clean); (h)(3) (garbage containers emptied when full, but at least twice a week); and (j) (insect and rodent control), State standards addressing such concerns will apply. In the absence of applicable local or State standards addressing such concerns, the relevant DOL OSHA standards at 29 CFR 1910.142(b)(2), (3), (9), (10), and (11), (c), (d)(1), (9), and (10), (f), (g), (h)(2) and (3), and (j) will apply. Any charges for rental housing must be paid directly by the employer to the owner or operator of the housing.
(2)
Standards for range and mobile housing.
An employer employing workers under §§ 655.200 through 655.235 must comply with the housing requirements in §§ 655.230 and 655.235. An employer employing workers under §§ 655.300 through 655.304 must comply with the housing standards in § 655.304.
(3)
Deposit charges.
Charges in the form of deposits for bedding or other similar incidentals related to housing must not be levied upon workers. However, employers may require workers to reimburse them for damage caused to housing by the individual worker(s) found to have been responsible for damage that is not the result of normal wear and tear related to habitation.
(4)
Charges for public housing.
If public housing provided for migrant agricultural workers under the auspices of a local, county, or State government is secured by the employer, the employer must pay any charges normally required for use of the public housing units directly to the housing's management.
(5)
Family housing.
When it is the prevailing practice in the area of intended employment and the occupation to provide family housing, it must be provided to workers with families who request it.
(6)
Compliance with applicable standards
—(i)
Timeliness.
The determination as to whether housing provided to workers under this section meets the applicable standards must be made not later than 30 calendar days before the first date of need identified in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(ii)
Certification of employer-provided housing.
The SWA (or another local, State, or Federal authority acting on behalf of the SWA) with jurisdiction over the location of the employer-provided housing must inspect and provide to the employer and CO documentation certifying that the employer-provided housing is sufficient to accommodate the number of workers requested and meets all applicable standards under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Certification of rental and/or public accommodations.
The employer must provide to the CO a written statement, signed and dated, that attests that the accommodations are compliant with the applicable standards under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section and are sufficient to accommodate the number of workers requested. This statement
must include the number of bed(s) and room(s) that the employer will secure for the worker(s). If applicable local or State rental or public accommodation standards under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section require an inspection, the employer also must submit to the CO a copy of the inspection report or other official documentation from the relevant authority. If the applicable standards do not require an inspection, the employer's written statement must confirm that no inspection is required.
(iv)
Certified housing that becomes unavailable.
If after a request to certify housing, such housing becomes unavailable for reasons outside the employer's control, the employer may substitute other rental or public accommodation housing that is in compliance with the local, State, or Federal housing standards applicable under this section. The employer must promptly notify the SWA in writing of the change in accommodations and the reason(s) for such change and provide the SWA evidence of compliance with the applicable local, State, or Federal safety and health standards, in accordance with the requirements of this section. If, upon inspection, the SWA determines the substituted housing does not meet the applicable housing standards, the SWA must promptly provide written notification to the employer to cure the deficiencies with a copy to the CO. An employer's failure to provide housing that complies with the applicable standards will result in either a denial of a pending
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or revocation of the temporary agricultural labor certification granted under this subpart.
(e)
Workers' compensation.
(1) The employer must provide workers' compensation insurance coverage in compliance with State law covering injury and disease arising out of and in the course of the worker's employment. If the type of employment for which the certification is sought is not covered by or is exempt from the State's workers' compensation law, the employer must provide, at no cost to the worker, insurance covering injury and disease arising out of and in the course of the worker's employment that will provide benefits at least equal to those provided under the State workers' compensation law for other comparable employment.
(2) Prior to issuance of the temporary agricultural labor certification, the employer must provide the CO with proof of workers' compensation insurance coverage meeting the requirements of this paragraph (e), including the name of the insurance carrier, the insurance policy number, and proof of insurance for the entire period of employment, or, if appropriate, proof of State law coverage.
(f)
Employer-provided items.
The employer must provide to the worker, without charge or deposit charge, all tools, supplies, and equipment required to perform the duties assigned.
(g)
Meals.
The employer either must provide each worker with three meals a day or must furnish free and convenient cooking and kitchen facilities to the workers that will enable the workers to prepare their own meals. Where the employer provides the meals, the job offer must state the charge, if any, to the worker for such meals. The amount of meal charges is governed by § 655.173. When a charge or deduction for the cost of meals would bring the employee's wage below the minimum wage set by the FLSA at 29 U.S.C. 206, the charge or deduction must meet the requirements of the FLSA at 29 U.S.C. 203(m), including the recordkeeping requirements found at 29 CFR 516.27.
(h)
Transportation; daily subsistence
—(1)
Transportation to place of employment.
If the employer has not previously advanced such transportation and subsistence costs to the worker or otherwise provided such transportation or subsistence directly to the worker by other means and if the worker completes 50 percent of the work contract period, the employer must pay the worker for reasonable costs incurred by the worker for transportation and daily subsistence from the place from which the worker has come to work for the employer, whether in the U.S. or abroad to the place of employment. When it is the prevailing practice of non-H-2A agricultural employers in the occupation in the area to do so, or
when the employer extends such benefits to similarly situated H-2A workers, the employer must advance the required transportation and subsistence costs (or otherwise provide them) to workers in corresponding employment who are traveling to the employer's worksite. The amount of the transportation payment must be no less (and is not required to be more) than the most economical and reasonable common carrier transportation charges for the distances involved. The amount of the daily subsistence payment must be at least as much as the employer would charge the worker for providing the worker with three meals a day during employment (if applicable), but in no event less than the amount permitted under § 655.173(a). Note that the FLSA applies independently of the H-2A requirements and imposes obligations on employers regarding payment of wages.
(2)
Transportation from place of employment.
If the worker completes the work contract period, or if the employee is terminated without cause, and the worker has no immediate subsequent H-2A employment, the employer must provide or pay for the worker's transportation and daily subsistence from the place of employment to the place from which the worker, disregarding intervening employment, departed to work for the employer. If the worker has contracted with a subsequent employer who has not agreed in such work contract to provide or pay for the worker's transportation and daily subsistence expenses from the employer's worksite to such subsequent employer's worksite, the employer must provide or pay for such expenses. If the worker has contracted with a subsequent employer who has agreed in such work contract to provide or pay for the worker's transportation and daily subsistence expenses from the employer's worksite to such subsequent employer's worksite, the subsequent employer must provide or pay for such expenses. The employer is not relieved of its obligation to provide or pay for return transportation and subsistence if an H-2A worker is displaced as a result of the employer's compliance with the 50 percent rule as described in § 655.135(d) with respect to the referrals made after the employer's date of need.
(3)
Transportation between living quarters and place of employment.
The employer must provide transportation between housing provided or secured by the employer and the employer's place of employment at no cost to the worker.
(4)
Employer-provided transportation.
(i) All employer-provided transportation must comply with all applicable local, State, or Federal laws and regulations, and must provide, at a minimum, the same transportation safety standards, driver's licensure, and vehicle insurance required under 29 U.S.C. 1841, 29 CFR 500.104 or 500.105, and 29 CFR 500.120 through 500.128.
(ii) The employer must not operate, or allow any other person to operate, any employer-provided transportation that is required by the U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, including 49 CFR 571.208, to be manufactured with seat belts, unless all passengers and the driver are properly restrained by seat belts meeting standards established by the U.S. Department of Transportation, including 49 CFR 571.209 and 571.210.
(iii) The job offer must include a description of the modes of transportation (
e.g.,
type of vehicle) that will be used for inbound, outbound, daily, and any other transportation.
(iv) If workers' compensation is used to cover transportation in lieu of vehicle insurance, the employer must either ensure that the workers' compensation covers all travel or that vehicle insurance exists to provide coverage for travel not covered by workers' compensation and it must have property damage insurance.
(i)
Three-fourths guarantee
—(1)
Offer to worker.
The employer must guarantee to offer the worker employment for a total number of work hours equal to at least three-fourths of the workdays of the total period beginning with the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment or the advertised contractual first date of need, whichever is later, and ending on the expiration date specified in the work contract or in its extensions, if any.
(i) For purposes of this paragraph (i)(1), a workday means the number of hours in a workday as stated in the job order and excludes the worker's Sabbath and Federal holidays. The employer must offer a total number of hours to ensure the provision of sufficient work to reach the three-fourths guarantee. The work hours must be offered during the work period specified in the work contract.
(ii) In the event the worker begins working later than the specified beginning date of the contract, the guarantee period begins with the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment, and continues until the last day during which the work contract and all extensions thereof are in effect.
(iii) Therefore, if, for example, a work contract is for a 10-week period, during which a normal workweek is specified as 6 days a week, 8 hours per day, the worker would have to be guaranteed employment for at least 360 hours (10 weeks × 48 hours/week = 480 hours × 75 percent = 360). If a Federal holiday occurred during the 10-week span, the 8 hours would be deducted from the total hours for the work contract, before the guarantee is calculated. Continuing with the above example, the worker would have to be guaranteed employment for 354 hours (10 weeks × 48 hours/week = (480 hours−8 hours (Federal holiday)) × 75 percent = 354 hours).
(iv) A worker may be offered more than the specified hours of work on a single workday. For purposes of meeting the guarantee, however, the worker will not be required to work for more than the number of hours specified in the job order for a workday, or on the worker's Sabbath or Federal holidays. However, all hours of work actually performed may be counted by the employer in calculating whether the period of guaranteed employment has been met. If during the total work contract period the employer affords the U.S. or H-2A worker less employment than that required under this paragraph (i)(1), the employer must pay such worker the amount the worker would have earned had the worker, in fact, worked for the guaranteed number of days. An employer will not be considered to have met the work guarantee if the employer has merely offered work on three-fourths of the workdays if each workday did not consist of a full number of hours of work time as specified in the job order.
(2)
Guarantee for piece rate paid worker.
If the worker is paid on a piece rate basis, the employer must use the worker's average hourly piece rate earnings or the required hourly wage rate, whichever is higher, to calculate the amount due under the guarantee.
(3)
Failure to work.
Any hours the worker fails to work, up to a maximum of the number of hours specified in the job order for a workday, when the worker has been offered an opportunity to work in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section, and all hours of work actually performed (including voluntary work over 8 hours in a workday or on the worker's Sabbath or Federal holidays), may be counted by the employer in calculating whether the period of guaranteed employment has been met. An employer seeking to calculate whether the number of hours has been met must maintain the payroll records in accordance with this subpart.
(4)
Displaced H-2A worker.
The employer is not liable for payment of the three-fourths guarantee to an H-2A worker whom the CO certifies is displaced because of the employer's compliance with its obligation to hire U.S. workers who apply or are referred after the employer's date of need described in § 655.135(d) with respect to referrals made during that period.
(5)
Obligation to provide housing and meals.
Notwithstanding the three-fourths guarantee contained in this section, employers are obligated to provide housing and meals in accordance with paragraphs (d) and (g) of this section for each day of the contract period up until the day the workers depart for other H-2A employment, depart to the place outside of the United States from which the worker came, or, if the worker voluntarily abandons employment or is terminated for cause, the day of such abandonment or termination.
(j)
Earnings records.
(1) An employer must keep accurate and adequate records with respect to each worker's
earnings, including, but not limited to, field tally records, supporting summary payroll records, and records showing the nature and amount of the work performed; the number of hours of work offered each day by the employer (broken out by hours offered both in accordance with and over and above the three-fourths guarantee at paragraph (i)(3) of this section); the hours actually worked each day by the worker; the time the worker began and ended each workday; the rate of pay (both piece rate and hourly, if applicable); the worker's earnings per pay period; the worker's permanent address and, when available, the worker's permanent email address and phone number(s); and the amount of and reasons for any and all deductions taken from the worker's wages. In the case of H-2A workers, the permanent address must be the worker's permanent address in the worker's home country.
(2) Each employer must keep the records required by paragraph (j) of this section, including field tally records and supporting summary payroll records, safe and accessible at the place or places of employment, or at one or more established central recordkeeping offices where such records are customarily maintained. All records must be available for inspection and transcription by the Secretary or a duly authorized and designated representative, and by the worker and representatives designated by the worker as evidenced by appropriate documentation (an Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative, Form G-28, signed by the worker, or an affidavit signed by the worker confirming such representation). Where the records are maintained at a central recordkeeping office, other than in the place or places of employment, such records must be made available for inspection and copying within 72 hours following notice from the Secretary, or a duly authorized and designated representative, and by the worker and designated representatives as described in this paragraph (j)(2).
(3) To assist in determining whether the three-fourths guarantee in paragraph (i) of this section has been met, if the number of hours worked by the worker on a day during the work contract period is less than the number of hours offered, as specified in the job offer, the records must state the reason or reasons therefore.
(4) The employer must retain the records for not less than 3 years after the date of the certification.
(k)
Hours and earnings statements.
The employer must furnish to the worker on or before each payday in one or more written statements the following information:
(1) The worker's total earnings for the pay period;
(2) The worker's hourly rate and/or piece rate of pay;
(3) The hours of employment offered to the worker (showing offers in accordance with the three-fourths guarantee as determined in paragraph (i) of this section, separate from any hours offered over and above the guarantee);
(4) The hours actually worked by the worker;
(5) An itemization of all deductions made from the worker's wages;
(6) If piece rates are used, the units produced daily;
(7) Beginning and ending dates of the pay period; and
(8) The employer's name, address, and FEIN.
(l)
Rates of pay.
Except for occupations covered by §§ 655.200 through 655.235, the employer must pay the worker at least the highest wage rate set forth in § 655.120(a)(1).
(1) The employer must calculate workers' wages using the wage rate that will result in the highest wages for each worker in each pay period. When calculating wages based on an hourly wage rate, the calculation must reflect every hour or portion thereof worked during a pay period. The wages actually paid cannot be lower than the wages that would result from the wage rate(s) guaranteed in the job order.
(2) Where the wage rates set forth in § 655.120(a)(1) include both hourly and non-hourly wage rates, the employer must calculate each worker's wages, in each pay period, using the highest wage rate for each unit of pay, and pay the worker the highest of these wages for that pay period. The wage actually paid cannot be lower than the wages that would result from the wage rate(s) guaranteed in the job offer.
(3) If the employer requires one or more minimum productivity standards of workers as a condition of job retention, such standards must be specified in the job offer and be no more than those required by the employer in 1977, unless the OFLC Administrator approves a higher minimum, or, if the employer first applied for temporary agricultural labor certification after 1977, such standards must be no more than those normally required (at the time of the first
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
) by other employers for the activity in the area of intended employment.
(4) If applicable, the employer must state in the job order:
(i) That overtime hours may be available;
(ii) The wage rate(s) to be paid for any such overtime hours;
(iii) The circumstances under which the wage rate(s) for overtime hours will be paid, including, but not limited to, after how many hours in a day or workweek the overtime wage rate will be paid, and whether overtime wage rates will vary between places of employment; and
(iv) Where the overtime pay is required by law, the applicable Federal, State, or local law requiring the overtime pay.
(m)
Frequency of pay.
The employer must state in the job offer the frequency with which the worker will be paid, which must be at least twice monthly or according to the prevailing practice in the area of intended employment, whichever is more frequent. Employers must pay wages when due.
(n)
Termination for cause or abandonment of employment.
(1) If a worker is terminated for cause or voluntarily abandons employment before the end of the contract period, and the employer notifies the NPC, and DHS in the case of an H-2A worker, in writing or by any other method specified by the Department in a notice published in the
Federal Register
or specified by DHS not later than 2 working days after such termination for cause or abandonment occurs, the employer will not be responsible for providing or paying for the subsequent transportation and subsistence expenses of that worker under this section, and that worker is not entitled to the three-fourths guarantee described in paragraph (i) of this section, and, in the case of a U.S. worker, the employer will not be obligated to contact that worker under § 655.153.
(2) A worker is terminated for cause when the employer terminates the worker for failure to comply with employer policies or rules or to satisfactorily perform job duties in accordance with reasonable expectations based on criteria listed in the job offer.
(i) An employer may terminate a worker for cause only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
(A) The employee has been informed (in a language understood by the worker), or reasonably should have known, of the policy, rule, or performance expectation;
(B) Compliance with the policy, rule, or performance expectation is within the worker's control;
(C) The policy, rule, or performance expectation is reasonable and applied consistently to the employer's H-2A workers and workers in corresponding employment;
(D) The employer undertakes a fair and objective investigation into the job performance or misconduct; and
(E) The employer corrects the worker's performance or behavior using progressive discipline, which is a system of graduated and reasonable responses to an employee's failure to satisfactorily perform job duties or comply with employer policies or rules. Disciplinary measures should be proportional to the misconduct or failure to meet performance expectations but may increase in severity if misconduct or failure to meet performance expectations is repeated, and may include immediate termination for egregious misconduct, meaning intentional or reckless conduct that is plainly illegal, poses imminent danger to physical safety, or that a reasonable person would understand as being outrageous. Prior to each disciplinary measure, the employer must notify the worker of the infraction and allow the worker to present evidence in their defense. Following each disciplinary measure, except where the appropriate disciplinary measure is termination, the employer
must provide relevant and adequate instruction to the worker, and must afford the worker reasonable time to correct the behavior or to meet the performance expectation following such instruction. The employer must document each infraction and corresponding disciplinary measure, evidence the worker presented in their defense, and resulting instruction, and provide a copy of this documentation to the worker (in a language understood by the worker) within 1 week of the implementation of the disciplinary measure.
(ii) A worker is not terminated for cause where the termination is: contrary to a Federal, State, or local law; for an employee's refusal to work under conditions that the employee reasonably believes will expose them or other employees to an unreasonable health or safety risk; because of discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, sex (including sexual orientation or gender identity), religion, disability, familial status or citizenship status; or, where applicable, where the employer failed to comply with its obligations under § 655.135(m) in an investigatory interview that contributed to the termination.
(iii) The employer bears the burden of demonstrating that any termination for cause meets the requirements in paragraph (n)(2).
(3) Abandonment will be deemed to begin after a worker fails to report to work at the regularly scheduled time for 5 consecutive working days without the consent of the employer.
(4) The employer is required to maintain records described in this section for not less than 3 years from the date of the certification.
(i) Records of notification to the NPC, and to DHS in the case of an H-2A worker, of termination for cause or abandonment.
(ii) Disciplinary records, including the infraction and each step of progressive discipline, any evidence the worker presented in their defense, any investigation related to the termination, and any subsequent instruction afforded the worker.
(iii) Records indicating the reason(s) for termination of any worker, including disciplinary records as described in paragraph (n)(4)(ii) of this section and § 655.167.
(o)
Contract impossibility.
If, before the expiration date specified in the work contract, the services of the worker are no longer required for reasons beyond the control of the employer due to fire, weather, or other Act of God that makes the fulfillment of the contract impossible, the employer may terminate the work contract. Whether such an event constitutes a contract impossibility will be determined by the CO. In the event of such termination of a contract, the employer must fulfill a three-fourths guarantee for the time that has elapsed from the start of the work contract to the time of its termination, as described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section. The employer must make efforts to transfer the worker to other comparable employment acceptable to the worker, consistent with existing immigration law, as applicable. If such transfer is not affected, the employer must:
(1) Return the worker, at the employer's expense, to the place from which the worker (disregarding intervening employment) came to work for the employer, or transport the worker to the worker's next certified H-2A employer, whichever the worker prefers;
(2) Reimburse the worker the full amount of any deductions made from the worker's pay by the employer for transportation and subsistence expenses to the place of employment; and
(3) Pay the worker for any costs incurred by the worker for transportation and daily subsistence to that employer's place of employment. Daily subsistence must be computed as set forth in paragraph (h) of this section. The amount of the transportation payment must not be less (and is not required to be more) than the most economical and reasonable common carrier transportation charges for the distances involved.
(p)
Deductions.
(1) The employer must make all deductions from the worker's paycheck required by law. The job offer must specify all deductions not required by law which the employer will make from the worker's paycheck. All deductions must be reasonable. The employer may deduct the cost of the
worker's transportation and daily subsistence expenses to the place of employment which were borne directly by the employer. In such circumstances, the job offer must state that the worker will be reimbursed the full amount of such deduction upon the worker's completion of 50 percent of the work contract period. However, an employer subject to the FLSA may not make deductions that would violate the FLSA.
(2) A deduction is not reasonable if it includes a profit to the employer or to any affiliated person. A deduction that is primarily for the benefit or convenience of the employer will not be recognized as reasonable and therefore the cost of such an item may not be included in computing wages. The wage requirements of § 655.120 will not be met where undisclosed or unauthorized deductions, rebates, or refunds reduce the wage payment made to the employee below the minimum amounts required under this subpart, or where the employee fails to receive such amounts free and clear because the employee kicks back directly or indirectly to the employer or to another person for the employer's benefit the whole or part of the wage delivered to the employee. The principles applied in determining whether deductions are reasonable and payments are received free and clear, and the permissibility of deductions for payments to third persons are explained in more detail in 29 CFR part 531.
(q)
Disclosure of work contract.
The employer must provide to an H-2A worker not later than the time at which the worker applies for the visa, or to a worker in corresponding employment not later than on the day work commences, a copy of the work contract between the employer and the worker in a language understood by the worker as necessary or reasonable. For an H-2A worker going from an H-2A employer to a subsequent H-2A employer, the copy must be provided not later than the time an offer of employment is made by the subsequent H-2A employer. For an H-2A worker that does not require a visa for entry, the copy must be provided not later than the time of an offer of employment. At a minimum, the work contract must contain all of the provisions required by this section. In the absence of a separate, written work contract entered into between the employer and the worker, the work contract at a minimum will be the terms of the job order and any obligations required under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34060, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.123
[Reserved]
§ 655.124
Withdrawal of a job order.
(a) The employer may withdraw a job order if the employer no longer plans to file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
However, the employer is still obligated to comply with the terms and conditions of employment contained in the job order with respect to all workers recruited in connection with that job order.
(b) To request withdrawal, the employer must submit a request in writing to the NPC identifying the job order and stating the reason(s) for the withdrawal.

# Application for Temporary Employment Certification Filing Procedures
§ 655.130
Application filing requirements.
All employers who desire to hire H-2A foreign agricultural workers must apply for a certification from the Secretary by filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with the NPC designated by the OFLC Administrator. This section provides the procedures employers must follow when filing.
(a)
What to file.
(1) An employer that desires to apply for temporary agricultural labor certification of one or more nonimmigrant workers must file a completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
all supporting documentation and information required at the time of filing under §§ 655.131 through 655.137, and, unless a specific exemption applies, a copy of Form ETA-790/790A, submitted as set forth in § 655.121(a).
(2) The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must include the employer's legal name, trade name(s),
and a valid FEIN as well as a valid place of business (physical location) in the United States and a means by which it may be contacted by prospective U.S. applicants for employment. For each employer of any H-2A worker sponsored under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or any worker in corresponding employment, the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must include the identity, location, and contact information of all persons who are the owners of that entity.
(3) For each place of employment identified in the job order, the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must include the identity, location, and contact information of all persons and entities, if different than the employer(s), who are the operators of the place of employment, and of all persons who manage or supervise any H-2A worker sponsored under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or any worker in corresponding employment, regardless of whether those managers or supervisors are employed by the employer or another entity.
(4) If the information specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section changes during the work contract period, the employer must update its records to reflect the change. The employer must continue to keep this information up to date until the end of the work contract period, including any extensions. The employer must retain the updated information in accordance with § 655.167(c)(9) and must make this updated information available in the event of a post-certification audit or upon request by the Department. The Department may share the information it receives from employers with any other Federal agency, as appropriate for investigative or enforcement purpose, as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b)
Timeliness.
A completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must be filed no less than 45 calendar days before the employer's first date of need.
(c)
Location and method of filing
—(1)
Electronic filing.
The employer must file the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and all required supporting documentation with the NPC using the electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. The NPC will return without review any application submitted using a method other than the designated electronic method(s), unless the employer submits the application in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section.
(2)
Filing by mail.
Employers that lack adequate access to electronic filing may file the application by mail. The employer must indicate that it is filing by mail due to lack of adequate access to electronic filing. The OFLC Administrator will identify the address to which such filing must be mailed by public notice(s) and by instructions on DOL's website.
(3)
Reasonable accommodation.
Employers who are unable or limited in their ability to use and/or access the electronic
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
or any other form or documentation required under this subpart, as a result of a disability may request a reasonable accommodation to enable them to participate in the H-2A program. An employer in need of such an accommodation may contact the NPC in writing to the address designated in a notice published in the
Federal Register
or 202-513-7350 (this is not a toll-free number), or for individuals with hearing or speech impairments, 1-877-889-5627 (this is the TTY toll-free Federal Information Relay Service number) for assistance in using, accessing, or filing any form or documentation required under this subpart, including the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
All requests for an accommodation should include the employer's name, a detailed description of the accommodation needed, and the preferred method of contact. The NPC will respond to the request for a reasonable accommodation within 10 business days of the date of receipt.
(d)
Original signature.
The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must contain an electronic (scanned) copy of the original signature of the employer (and that of the employer's authorized attorney or agent if the employer is represented by an attorney or
agent) or a verifiable electronic signature method, as directed by the OFLC Administrator. If submitted by mail, the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must bear the original signature of the employer and, if applicable, the employer's authorized attorney or agent.
(e)
Scope of applications.
(1) Except as otherwise permitted by this subpart, all places of employment on an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must be within a single area of intended employment. Where a job opportunity involves work at multiple places of employment after the workday begins, the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may include places of employment outside of a single area of intended employment only as is necessary to perform the duties specified in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
and provided that the worker can reasonably return to the worker's residence or the employer-provided housing within the same workday.
(2) An employer may file only one
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
covering the same area of intended employment, period of employment, and occupation or comparable work to be performed.
(f)
Information dissemination.
Information received in the course of processing
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
or in the course of conducting program integrity measures such as audits may be forwarded from OFLC to WHD or any other Federal agency, as appropriate, for investigative or enforcement purposes.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34062, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.131
Agricultural association and joint employer filing requirements.
(a)
Agricultural association filing requirements.
If an agricultural association files an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
in addition to complying with all the assurances, guarantees, and other requirements contained in this subpart and in part 653, subpart F, of this chapter, the following requirements also apply.
(1) The agricultural association must identify in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for H-2A workers whether it is filing as a sole employer, a joint employer, or an agent. The agricultural association must retain documentation substantiating the employer or agency status of the agricultural association and be prepared to submit such documentation in response to a NOD from the CO prior to issuing a Final Determination, or in the event of an audit or investigation.
(2) The agricultural association may file a master application on behalf of its employer-members. The master application is available only when the agricultural association is filing as a joint employer. An agricultural association may submit a master application covering the same occupation or comparable work available with a number of its employer-members in multiple areas of intended employment, as long as the first dates of need for each employer-member named in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
are separated by no more than 14 calendar days and all places of employment are located in no more than two contiguous States. The agricultural association must identify in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
by name, address, total number of workers needed, period of employment, first date of need, and the crops and agricultural work to be performed, each employer-member that will employ H-2A workers.
(3) An agricultural association filing a master application as a joint employer may sign the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of its employer-members. An agricultural association filing as an agent may not sign on behalf of its employer-members but must obtain each employer-member's signature on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
prior to filing.
(4) If the application is approved, the agricultural association, as appropriate, will receive a Final Determination certifying the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with the procedures contained in § 655.162.
(b)
Joint employer filing requirements.
(1) If an employer files an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of one or more other employers seeking to jointly employ H-2A workers in the same area of intended employment, in addition to complying with all the assurances, guarantees, and other requirements contained in this subpart and in part 653, subpart F, of this chapter, the following requirements also apply:
(i) The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must identify the name, address, and the crop(s) and agricultural work to be performed for each employer seeking to jointly employ the H-2A workers;
(ii) No single joint employer may employ an H-2A worker, or any combination of H-2A workers, for more than a total of 34 hours in any workweek; and
(iii) The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must be signed and dated by each joint employer named in the application, in accordance with the procedures contained in § 655.130(e). By signing the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
each joint employer named in the application attests to the conditions of employment required of an employer participating in the H-2A program, and assumes full responsibility for the accuracy of the representations made in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and for compliance with all of the assurances and obligations of an employer in the H-2A program at all times during the period the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is valid; and
(2) If the application is approved, the joint employer who submits the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will receive, on behalf of the other joint employers, a Final Determination certifying the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with the procedures contained in § 655.162.
§ 655.132
H-2A labor contractor filing requirements.
An H-2A labor contractor (H-2ALC) must meet all of the requirements of the definition of
employer
in § 655.103(b) and comply with all the assurances, guarantees, and other requirements contained in this part, including § 655.135, and in part 653, subpart F, of this chapter. The H-2ALC must include in or with its
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
at the time of filing the following:
(a) The name and location of each fixed-site agricultural business to which the H-2ALC expects to provide H-2A workers, the expected beginning and ending dates when the H-2ALC will be providing the workers to each fixed site, and a description of the crops and activities the workers are expected to perform at such fixed site.
(b) A copy of the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act (MSPA) Farm Labor Contractor (FLC) Certificate of Registration, if required under MSPA at 29 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.,
identifying the specific farm labor contracting activities the H-2ALC is authorized to perform as an FLC.
(c) Proof of its ability to discharge financial obligations under the H-2A program by including with the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
an original surety bond meeting the following requirements.
(1)
Requirements for the bond.
The bond must be payable to the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, United States Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW, Room S-3502, Washington, DC 20210. Consistent with the enforcement procedure set forth at 29 CFR 501.9(b), the bond must obligate the surety to pay any sums to the WHD Administrator for wages and benefits, including any assessment of interest, owed to an H-2A worker or to a worker engaged in corresponding employment, or to a U.S. worker improperly rejected or improperly laid off or displaced, based on a final decision finding a violation or violations of this part or 29 CFR part 501 relating to the labor certification the bond is intended to cover. The aggregate liability of the surety shall not exceed the face amount of the bond. The bond must remain in full force and effect for all liabilities incurred during the period of the labor certification, including any extension thereof. The bond may not be cancelled absent a finding by the WHD Administrator that the labor certification has been revoked.
(2)
Amount of the bond.
Unless a higher amount is sought by the WHD Administrator pursuant to 29 CFR 501.9(a), the required bond amount is
the base amount adjusted to reflect the average AEWR, as defined in § 655.103, and further adjusted if the labor certification will be used for the employment of 150 or more workers.
(i) The base amounts are $5,000 for a labor certification for which an H-2ALC employs fewer than 25 workers; $10,000 for a labor certification for which an H-2ALC employs 25 to 49 workers; $20,000 for a labor certification for which an H-2ALC employs 50 to 74 workers; $50,000 for a labor certification for which an H-2ALC employs 75 to 99 workers; and $75,000 for a labor certification for which an H-2ALC employs 100 or more workers.
(ii) The bond amount is calculated by multiplying the base amount by the average AEWR in effect at the time of bond submission, as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and dividing by $9.25. Thus, the required bond amounts will vary based on changes in the average AEWR.
(iii) For a labor certification for which an H-2ALC employs 150 or more workers, the bond amount applicable to the certification of 100 or more workers is further adjusted for each additional 50 workers as follows: the bond amount is increased by a value which represents 2 weeks of wages for 50 workers, calculated using the average AEWR (
i.e.,
80 hours × 50 workers × Average AEWR); this increase is applied to the bond amount for each additional group of 50 workers.
(iv) The required bond amounts shall be calculated and published in the
Federal Register
after the OFLC Administrator has calculated the average AEWR or any adjustment thereto.
(3)
Form of the bond and method of filing.
The bond shall consist of an executed Form ETA-9142A—Appendix B, and must contain the name, address, phone number, and contact person for the surety, and valid documentation of power of attorney. The bond must be filed using the method directed by the OFLC Administrator at the time of filing:
(i)
Electronic surety bonds.
When the OFLC Administrator directs the use of electronic surety bonds, this will be the required method of filing bonds for all applications subject to mandatory electronic filing. Consistent with the application filing requirements of § 655.130(c) and (d), the bond must be completed, signed by the employer and the surety using a verifiable electronic signature method, and submitted electronically with the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and supporting materials unless the employer is permitted to file by mail or a different accommodation under § 655.130(c)(2) or (3).
(ii)
Electronic submission of copy.
Until such time as the OFLC Administrator directs the use of electronic surety bonds, employers may submit an electronic (scanned) copy of the surety bond with the application, provided that the original bond is received within 30 days of the date that the labor certification is issued.
(iii)
Mailing original bond with application.
For applications not subject to mandatory electronic filing due under § 655.130(c)(2) or (3), employers may submit the original bond as part of its mailed, paper application package, or consistent with the accommodation provided.
(d) Copies of the fully-executed work contracts with each fixed-site agricultural business identified under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) Where the fixed-site agricultural business will provide housing or transportation to the workers, proof that:
(1) All housing used by workers and owned, operated, or secured by the fixed-site agricultural business complies with the applicable standards as set forth in § 655.122(d) and certified by the SWA and that the fixed-site agricultural business has agreed to comply with the requirements at § 655.135(n); and
(2) All transportation between all places of employment and the workers' living quarters that is provided by the fixed-site agricultural business complies with all applicable local, State, or Federal laws and regulations and must provide, at a minimum, the same vehicle safety standards, driver licensure, and vehicle insurance as required under 29 U.S.C. 1841 and 29 CFR 500.104 or 500.105 and 500.120 through 500.128, except where workers' compensation is
used to cover such transportation as described in § 655.122(h).
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34062, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.133
Requirements for agents.
(a) An agent filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of an employer must provide a copy of the agent agreement or other document demonstrating the agent's authority to represent the employer.
(b) In addition the agent must provide a copy of the MSPA FLC Certificate of Registration, if required under MSPA at 29 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.,
identifying the specific farm labor contracting activities the agent is authorized to perform.
§ 655.134
Emergency situations.
(a)
Waiver of time period.
The CO may waive the time period for filing for employers who did not make use of temporary foreign agricultural workers during the prior year's agricultural season or for any employer that has other good and substantial cause, provided the CO has sufficient time to test the domestic labor market on an expedited basis to make the determinations required by § 655.100.
(b)
Employer requirements.
The employer requesting a waiver of the required time period must submit to the NPC: all documentation required at the time of filing by § 655.130(a), except evidence of a job order submitted pursuant to § 655.121; a completed job order on the Form ETA-790/790A and all required addenda; and a statement justifying the request for a waiver of the time period requirement. The statement must indicate whether the waiver request is due to the fact that the employer did not use H-2A workers during the prior year's agricultural season or whether the request is for good and substantial cause. If the waiver is requested for good and substantial cause, the employer's statement must also include detailed information describing the good and substantial cause that has necessitated the waiver request. Good and substantial cause may include, but is not limited to, the substantial loss of U.S. workers due to Acts of God or similar unforeseeable man-made catastrophic events (e.g., a hazardous materials emergency or government-controlled flooding), unforeseeable changes in market conditions, pandemic health issues, or similar conditions that are wholly outside of the employer's control.
(c)
Processing of emergency applications.
(1) Upon receipt of a complete emergency situation(s) waiver request, the CO promptly will transmit a copy of the job order to the SWA serving the area of intended employment. The SWA will review the contents of the job order for compliance with the requirements set forth in 20 CFR part 653, subpart F, and § 655.122. If the SWA determines that the job order does not comply with the applicable criteria, the SWA must inform the CO of the noted deficiencies within 5 calendar days of the date the job order is received by the SWA.
(2) The CO will process emergency
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
in a manner consistent with the provisions set forth in §§ 655.140 through 655.145 and make a determination on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with §§ 655.160 through 655.167. The CO may notify the employer, in accordance with the procedures contained in § 655.141, that the application cannot be accepted because, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the request for emergency filing was not justified and/or there is not sufficient time to test the availability of U.S. workers such that the CO can make a determination on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with § 655.161. Such notification will so inform the employer of the opportunity to submit a modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and/or job order in accordance with the procedures contained in § 655.142.
§ 655.135
Assurances and obligations of H-2A employers.
An employer seeking to employ H-2A workers must agree as part of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job offer that it will abide by the requirements of this subpart and of 29 CFR part 501 and must make each of the following additional assurances:
(a)
Non-discriminatory hiring practices.
The job opportunity is, and through the period set forth in paragraph (d) of this section must continue to be, open to any qualified U.S. worker regardless of race, color, national origin, age, sex, religion, handicap, or citizenship status. Rejections of any U.S. workers who applied or apply for the job must be only for lawful, job-related reasons, and those not rejected on this basis have been or will be hired. In addition, the employer has and will continue to retain records of all hires and rejections as required by § 655.167.
(b)
No strike or lockout.
The place(s) of employment for which the employer is requesting a temporary agricultural labor certification does not currently have employees on strike or being locked out in the course of a labor dispute.
(c)
Recruitment requirements
—(1)
General requirements.
The employer has and will continue to cooperate with the SWA by accepting referrals of all eligible U.S. workers who apply (or on whose behalf an application is made) for the job opportunity until the end of the period as specified in paragraph (d) of this section and must independently conduct the positive recruitment activities, as specified in § 655.154, until the date on which the H-2A workers depart for the place of employment. Unless the SWA is informed in writing of a different date, the date that is the third day preceding the employer's first date of need will be determined to be the date the H-2A workers departed for the employer's place of employment.
(2)
Interviewing U.S. workers.
Employers that wish to require interviews must conduct those interviews by phone or provide a procedure for the interviews to be conducted in the location where the U.S. worker is being recruited so that the worker incurs little or no cost due to the interview. Employers cannot provide potential H-2A workers with more favorable treatment than U.S. workers with respect to the requirement for, and conduct of, interviews.
(3)
Qualified and available U.S. workers.
The employer must consider all U.S. applicants for the job opportunity until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d). The employer must accept and hire all applicants who are qualified and who will be available for the job opportunity. U.S. applicants can be rejected only for lawful, job-related reasons, and those not rejected on this basis will be hired.
(d)
Fifty percent rule.
From the time the foreign workers depart for the employer's place of employment, the employer must provide employment to any qualified, eligible U.S. worker who applies to the employer until 50 percent of the period of the work contract has elapsed. Start of the work contract timeline is calculated from the first date of need stated on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
under which the foreign worker who is in the job was hired. This paragraph (d) will not apply to any employer who certifies to in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
that the employer:
(1) Did not, during any calendar quarter during the preceding calendar year, use more than 500 man-days of agricultural labor, as defined in 29 U.S.C. 203(u);
(2) Is not an employer-member of an association that has petitioned for certification under this subpart for its employer-members; and
(3) Has not otherwise associated with other employers who are petitioning for temporary foreign workers under this subpart.
(e)
Compliance with applicable laws.
During the period of employment that is the subject of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the employer must comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, including health and safety laws. In compliance with such laws, including the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, Pub. L. 110-457, 18 U.S.C. 1592(a), the employer may not hold or confiscate workers' passports, visas, or other immigration documents. H-2A employers may also be subject to the FLSA. The FLSA operates independently of the H-2A program and has specific requirements that address payment of wages, including deductions from wages, the payment of Federal minimum wage and payment of overtime.
(f)
Job opportunity is full-time.
The job opportunity is a full-time temporary position, calculated to be at least 35 hours per workweek.
(g)
No recent or future layoffs.
The employer has not laid off and will not lay off any similarly employed U.S. worker in the occupation that is the subject of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in the area of intended employment except for lawful, job-related reasons within 60 days of the first date of need, or if the employer has laid off such workers, it has offered the job opportunity that is the subject of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
to those laid-off U.S. worker(s) and the U.S. worker(s) refused the job opportunity, was rejected for the job opportunity for lawful, job-related reasons, or was hired. A layoff for lawful, job-related reasons such as lack of work or the end of the growing season is permissible if all H-2A workers are laid off before any U.S. worker in corresponding employment.
(h)
No unfair treatment.
(1) The employer has not and will not intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge or in any manner discriminate against, and has not and will not cause any person to intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, or in any manner discriminate against, any person who has:
(i) Filed a complaint under or related to 8 U.S.C. 1188 or this subpart or any Department regulation in this chapter or 29 CFR part 501 promulgated under 8 U.S.C. 1188;
(ii) Instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related to 8 U.S.C. 1188 or this subpart or any Department regulation in this chapter or 29 CFR part 501 promulgated under 8 U.S.C. 1188;
(iii) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or related to 8 U.S.C. 1188 or this subpart or any Department regulation in this chapter or 29 CFR part 501 promulgated under 8 U.S.C. 1188;
(iv) Consulted with an employee of a legal assistance program or an attorney on matters related to 8 U.S.C. 1188 or this subpart or any Department regulation in this chapter or 29 CFR part 501 promulgated under 8 U.S.C. 1188;
(v) Consulted with a key service provider on matters related to 8 U.S.C. 1188 or this subpart or any Department regulation in this chapter or 29 CFR part 501 promulgated under 8 U.S.C. 1188;
(vi) Exercised or asserted on behalf of themself or others any right or protection afforded by 8 U.S.C. 1188 or this subpart or any Department regulation in this chapter or 29 CFR part 501 promulgated under 8 U.S.C. 1188; or
(vii) Filed a complaint, instituted, or caused to be instituted any proceeding; or testified, assisted, or participated (or is about to testify, assist, or participate) in any investigation, proceeding, or hearing under or related to any applicable Federal, State, or local laws or regulations, including safety and health, employment, and labor laws.
(2) With respect to any person engaged in agriculture as defined and applied in 29 U.S.C. 203(f), the employer has not and will not intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge or in any manner discriminate against, and has not and will not cause any person to intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, or in any manner discriminate against, any person because such person:
(i) Has engaged in activities related to self-organization, including any effort to form, join, or assist a labor organization; or has engaged in other concerted activities for the purpose of mutual aid or protection relating to wages or working conditions; or has refused to engage in any or all of such activities; or
(ii) Has refused to attend an employer-sponsored meeting with the employer or its agent, representative or designee, if the primary purpose of the meeting is to communicate the employer's opinion concerning any activity protected by this subpart; or has refused to listen to employer-sponsored speech or view employer-sponsored communications, the primary purpose of which is to communicate the employer's opinion concerning any activity protected by this subpart.
(i)
Notify workers of duty to leave United States.
(1) The employer must inform H-2A workers of the requirement that they leave the United States at
the end of the period certified by the Department or separation from the employer, whichever is earlier, as required under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, unless the H-2A worker is being sponsored by another subsequent H-2A employer.
(2) As explained further in the DHS regulations, a temporary agricultural labor certification limits the validity period of an H-2A Petition.
See
8 CFR 214.2(h)(5)(vii). A foreign worker may not remain beyond their authorized period of stay, as determined by DHS, nor beyond separation from employment prior to completion of the H-2A contract, absent an extension or change of such worker's status under the DHS regulations.
See
8 CFR 214.2(h)(5)(viii)(B).
(j)
Comply with the prohibition against employees paying fees.
The employer and its agents have not sought or received payment of any kind from any employee subject to 8 U.S.C. 1188 for any activity related to obtaining H-2A labor certification, including payment of the employer's attorney fees, application fees, or recruitment costs. For purposes of this paragraph (j), payment includes, but is not limited to, monetary payments, wage concessions (including deductions from wages, salary, or benefits), kickbacks, bribes, tributes, in kind payments, and free labor. The provision in this paragraph (j) does not prohibit employers or their agents from receiving reimbursement for costs that are the responsibility and primarily for the benefit of the worker, such as government-required passport fees.
(k)
Contracts with third parties to comply with prohibitions.
The employer must contractually prohibit in writing any foreign labor contractor or recruiter (or any agent of such foreign labor contractor or recruiter) whom the employer engages, either directly or indirectly, in international recruitment of H-2A workers to seek or receive payments or other compensation from prospective employees. The contract must include the following statement: “Under this agreement, [name of foreign labor contractor or recruiter] and any agent or employee of [name of foreign labor contractor or recruiter] are prohibited from seeking or receiving payments from any prospective employee of [employer name] at any time, including before or after the worker obtains employment. Payments include but are not limited to any direct or indirect fees paid by such employees for recruitment, job placement, processing, maintenance, attorney fees, agent fees, application fees, or any fees related to obtaining H-2A labor certification.” This documentation is to be made available upon request by the CO or another Federal party.
(l)
Notice of worker rights.
The employer must post and maintain in a conspicuous location at the place of employment, a poster provided by the Secretary in English, and, to the extent necessary, any language common to a significant portion of the workers if they are not fluent in English, which sets out the rights and protections for workers employed pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1188.
(m)
Designation of representative.
With respect to any H-2A worker or worker in corresponding employment engaged in agriculture as defined and applied in 29 U.S.C. 203(f), employed at the place(s) of employment included in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the employer must permit a worker to designate a representative to attend any investigatory interview that the worker reasonably believes might result in disciplinary action and must permit the worker to receive advice and active assistance from the designated representative during any such investigatory interview. Where the designated representative is present at the worksite at the time of the investigatory interview, the employer must permit the representative to attend the investigatory interview in person. Where the designated representative is not present at the time and place of the investigatory interview, the employer must permit the representative to attend the investigatory interview remotely, including by telephone, videoconference, or other means.
(n)
Access to worker housing.
Workers residing in employer-furnished housing must be permitted to invite, or accept at their discretion, guests to their living quarters and/or the common areas or outdoor spaces near such housing during time that is outside of the
workers' workday subject only to reasonable restrictions designed to protect worker safety or prevent interference with other workers' enjoyment of these areas. Because workers' ability to accept guests at their discretion depends on the ability of potential guests to contact and seek an invitation from those workers, restrictions impeding this ability to contact and seek an invitation will be evaluated as restrictions on the workers' ability to accept guests.
(o)
Passport withholding.
During the period of employment that is the subject of the
Application for Temporary Labor Certification,
the employer may not hold or confiscate a worker's passport, visa, or other immigration or government identification document
except
where the worker states in writing that: the worker voluntarily requested that the employer keep these documents safe, the employer did not direct the worker to submit such a request, and the worker understands that the passport, visa, or other immigration or government identification document will be returned to the worker immediately upon the worker's request.
(p)
Foreign worker recruitment.
The employer, and its attorney or agent, as applicable, must comply with § 655.137(a) by providing a copy of all agreements with any agent or recruiter whom it engages or plans to engage in the recruitment of H-2A workers, and the identity and location of the persons and entities hired by or working for the agent or recruiter and any of the agents and employees of those persons and entities, to recruit foreign workers. Pursuant to § 655.130(a), the agreements and information must be filed with the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The employer must update this documentation in accordance with § 655.137(c).
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34062, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.136
Withdrawal of an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order.
(a) The employer may withdraw an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and the related job order at any time before the CO makes a determination under § 655.160. However, the employer is still obligated to comply with the terms and conditions of employment contained in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order with respect to all workers recruited in connection with that application and job order.
(b) To request withdrawal, the employer must submit a request in writing to the NPC identifying the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order and stating the reason(s) for the withdrawal.
§ 655.137
Disclosure of foreign worker recruitment.
(a) If the employer engages or plans to engage an agent or foreign labor recruiter, directly or indirectly, in international recruitment, the employer, and its attorney or agent, as applicable, must provide copies of all contracts and agreements with any agent and/or recruiter, executed in connection with the job opportunity, as specified in § 655.135(p). These agreements must contain the contractual prohibition against charging fees as set forth in § 655.135(k).
(b) The employer, and its attorney or agent, as applicable, must provide all recruitment-related information required in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
as defined in § 655.103(b), which includes the identity and location of all persons and entities hired by or working for the recruiter or agent, and any of the agents or employees of those persons and entities, to recruit prospective foreign workers for the H-2A job opportunity.
(c) The employer must continue to keep the foreign labor recruiter information referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section up to date until the end of the work contract period. The employer must retain the updated information in accordance with § 655.167(c)(8) and must make this updated information available in the event of a post-certification audit or upon request by the Department. The Department may share the foreign worker recruitment information it receives from employers with any other Federal agency, as appropriate for investigative or enforcement purpose, as set forth in § 655.130(f).
(d) The Department of Labor will maintain a publicly available list of agents and recruiters (including government registration numbers, if any) who are party to the agreements employers submit, as well as the persons and entities the employer identified as hired by or working for the recruiter and the locations in which they are operating.
[89 FR 34063, Apr. 29, 2024]

# Processing of Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
§ 655.140
Review of applications.
(a)
NPC review.
The CO will promptly review the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order for compliance with all applicable program requirements, including compliance with the requirements set forth in this subpart, and make a decision to issue a NOD under § 655.141, a Notice of Acceptance (NOA) under § 655.143, or a Final Determination under § 655.160.
(b)
Mailing and postmark requirements.
Any notice or request sent by the CO(s) to an employer requiring a response will be sent electronically or via traditional methods to assure next day delivery using the address, including electronic mail address, provided on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The employer's response to such a notice or request must be filed electronically or via traditional methods to assure next day delivery. The employer's response must be sent by the date due or the next business day if the due date falls on a Sunday or Federal holiday.
§ 655.141
Notice of deficiency.
(a)
Notification timeline.
If the CO determines the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order is incomplete, contains errors or inaccuracies, or does not meet the requirements set forth in this subpart, the CO will notify the employer within 7 calendar days of the CO's receipt of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
A copy of this notification will be sent to the SWA serving the area of intended employment.
(b)
Notice content.
The notice will:
(1) State the reason(s) the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order fails to meet the criteria for acceptance;
(2) Offer the employer an opportunity to submit a modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order within 5 business days from date of receipt stating the modification that is needed for the CO to issue the NOA;
(3) State that the CO's determination on whether to grant or deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will be made not later than 30 calendar days before the first date of need, provided that the employer submits the requested modification to the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order within 5 business days and in a manner specified by the CO; and
(4) State that if the employer does not comply with the requirements of § 655.142, the CO will deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
§ 655.142
Submission of modified applications.
(a)
Submission requirements and certification delays.
If in response to a NOD the employer chooses to submit a modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order, the CO's Final Determination will be postponed by 1 calendar day for each day that passes beyond the 5 business-day period allowed under § 655.141(b) to submit a modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order, up to a maximum of 5 calendar days. The CO may issue one or more additional NODs before issuing a Final Determination. The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will be deemed abandoned if the employer does not submit a modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order within 12 calendar days after the NOD was issued.
(b)
Provisions for denial of modified Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
If the modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or job order does not cure the deficiencies cited in the NOD(s) or otherwise fails
to satisfy the criteria required for certification, the CO will deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with the labor certification determination provisions in § 655.164.
(c)
Appeal from denial of modified Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The procedures for appealing a denial of a modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
are the same as for a non-modified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
as long as the employer timely requests an expedited administrative review or de novo hearing before an ALJ by following the procedures set forth in § 655.171.
§ 655.143
Notice of acceptance.
(a)
Notification timeline.
When the CO determines the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order meet the requirements set forth in this subpart, the CO will notify the employer within 7 calendar days of the CO's receipt of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
A copy of the notice will be sent to the SWA serving the area of intended employment.
(b)
Notice content.
The notice must:
(1) Authorize conditional access to the interstate clearance system and direct each SWA receiving a copy of the job order to commence recruitment of U.S. workers as specified in § 655.150;
(2) Direct the employer to engage in positive recruitment of U.S. workers under §§ 655.153 and 655.154 and to submit a report of its positive recruitment efforts meeting the requirements of § 655.156. If the OFLC Administrator's annual determination of labor supply States under § 655.154 requires the employer to engage in a specific additional positive recruitment activity in a labor supply State, the NOA will describe the precise nature of the additional positive recruitment required and will specify the documentation or other supporting evidence that must be maintained by the employer as proof that positive recruitment requirements were met;
(3) State that positive recruitment is in addition to and will occur during the period of time that the job order is being circulated by the SWA(s) for interstate clearance under § 655.150 and will terminate on the date specified in § 655.158;
(4) State any other documentation or assurances needed for the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
to meet the requirements for certification under this subpart;
(5) State that the CO will make a determination either to grant or deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
not later than 30 calendar days before the first date of need, except as provided for under § 655.142 for modified
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
or when the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
does not meet the requirements for certification but is expected to before the first date of need; and
(6) Where appropriate to the job opportunity and area of intended employment, direct the SWA to provide written notice of the job opportunity to organizations that provide employment and training services to workers likely to apply for the job and/or to place written notice of the job opportunity in other physical locations where such workers are likely to gather.
§ 655.144
Electronic job registry.
(a)
Location of and placement in the electronic job registry.
Upon acceptance of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
under § 655.143, the CO will promptly place for public examination a copy of the job order on an electronic job registry maintained by the Department, including any required modifications approved by the CO, as specified in § 655.142.
(b)
Length of posting on electronic job registry.
Unless otherwise provided, the Department will keep the job order posted on the electronic job registry in active status until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d).
§ 655.145
Pre-determination amendments to applications for temporary employment certification.
(a)
Increases in number of workers.
The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may be amended at any time before the CO's certification determination to increase the number of
workers requested in the initial
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
by not more than 20 percent (50 percent for employers requesting less than 10 workers) without requiring an additional recruitment period for U.S. workers. Requests for increases above the percent prescribed, without additional recruitment, may be approved by the CO only when the employer demonstrates that the need for additional workers could not have been foreseen, and the crops or commodities will be in jeopardy prior to the expiration of an additional recruitment period. All requests for increasing the number of workers must be made in writing.
(b)
Minor changes to the period of employment.
The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may be amended to make minor changes in the total period of employment before the CO issues a final determination. Changes will not be effective until submitted in writing and approved by the CO. In considering whether to approve the request, the CO will review the reason(s) for the request, determine whether the reason(s) are on the whole justified, and take into account the effect any change(s) would have on the adequacy of the underlying test of the domestic labor market for the job opportunity. An employer must demonstrate that the change to the period of employment could not have been foreseen, and the crops or commodities will be in jeopardy prior to the expiration of an additional recruitment period. Upon acceptance of an amendment, the CO will submit to the SWA any necessary modification to the job order.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34063, Apr. 29, 2024]

# Post-Acceptance Requirements
§ 655.150
Interstate clearance of job order.
(a)
CO approves for interstate clearance.
The CO will promptly transmit a copy of the approved job order for interstate clearance, at minimum, to all States listed in the job order as anticipated place(s) of employment and all other States designated by the OFLC Administrator as States of traditional or expected labor supply for the anticipated place(s) of employment under § 655.154(d).
(b)
Duration of posting.
Each of the SWAs to which the CO transmits the job order must keep the job order on its active file until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d), and must refer each qualified U.S. worker who applies (or on whose behalf an application is made) for the job opportunity.
§§ 655.151-655.152
[Reserved]
§ 655.153
Contact with former U.S. workers.
The employer must contact, by mail or other effective means, U.S. workers employed by the employer in the occupation at the place of employment during the previous year and solicit their return to the job. This contact must occur during the period of time that the job order is being circulated by the SWA(s) for interstate clearance under § 655.150 and before the date specified in § 655.158. Documentation sufficient to prove contact must be maintained in the event of an audit or investigation. An employer has no obligation to contact U.S. workers it terminated for cause or who abandoned employment at any time during the previous year if the employer provided timely notice to the NPC of the termination or abandonment in the manner described in § 655.122(n).
§ 655.154
Additional positive recruitment.
(a)
Where to conduct additional positive recruitment.
In addition to the CO's posting of the job opportunity on an electronic job registry in accordance with § 655.144, the employer must conduct positive recruitment as required by the OFLC Administrator's determination of traditional or expected labor supply States, which is published annually in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Additional requirements should be comparable to non-H-2A employers in the area.
The location(s) and method(s) of the positive recruitment required of the employer must be no less than the normal recruitment efforts of non-H-2A agricultural employers of comparable or smaller size in the area of
intended employment, taking into consideration the kind and degree of recruitment efforts which the employer may make to obtain foreign workers.
(c)
Nature of the additional positive recruitment.
The OFLC Administrator's labor supply State determination will identify areas of labor supply within a State, and the NOA issued under § 655.143 will describe the precise nature of the additional positive recruitment required of the employer, if any. The employer will not be required to conduct positive recruitment in more than three States for each area of intended employment listed on the employer's
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order.
(d)
Determination of labor supply States.
(1) The OFLC Administrator will make an annual determination with respect to each State whether there are other traditional or expected labor supply States and, within a traditional or expected labor supply State, areas in which there are a significant number of qualified U.S. workers who, if recruited, would be willing to make themselves available for work in that State. The OFLC Administrator will publish the determination annually on OFLC's website.
(2) The determination will become effective on the date of publication on OFLC's website for employers who have not commenced positive recruitment under this subpart and will remain valid until the OFLC Administrator publishes a new determination.
(3) The determination as to whether any State is a source of traditional or expected labor supply to another State will be based primarily upon information provided by the SWAs to the OFLC Administrator within 120 calendar days preceding the determination.
§ 655.155
Referrals of U.S. workers.
SWAs may only refer for employment individuals who have been apprised of all the material terms and conditions of employment and have indicated, by accepting referral to the job opportunity, that they are qualified, able, willing, and available for employment.
§ 655.156
Recruitment report.
(a)
Requirements of a recruitment report.
The employer must prepare, sign, and date a written recruitment report. The recruitment report must be submitted on a date specified by the CO in the NOA set forth in § 655.143 and contain the following information:
(1) Identify the name of each recruitment source and date(s) of advertisement;
(2) State the name and contact information of each U.S. worker who applied or was referred to the job opportunity up to the date of the preparation of the recruitment report, and the disposition of each worker;
(3) Confirm that former U.S. workers were contacted, with a description by what means they were contacted and the date(s) of such contact, or state there are no former U.S. workers to contact; and
(4) If applicable, for each U.S. worker who applied for the position but was not hired, explain the lawful job-related reason(s) for not hiring the U.S. worker.
(b)
Duty to update recruitment report.
The employer must continue to update the recruitment report until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d). The updated report must be made available in the event of a post-certification audit or upon request by the Department. The Department may share recruitment report information with any other Federal agency, as set forth in § 655.130(f).
§ 655.157
Withholding of U.S. workers prohibited.
(a)
Filing a complaint.
Any employer who has reason to believe that a person or entity has willfully and knowingly withheld U.S. workers prior to the arrival at the place of employment of H-2A workers in order to force the hiring of U.S. workers during the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d), may submit a written complaint to the CO. The complaint must clearly identify the person or entity who the employer believes has withheld the U.S. workers, and must specify sufficient facts to support the allegation (e.g., dates, places, numbers and names of U.S. workers) which will permit an investigation to be conducted by the CO.
(b)
Duty to investigate.
Upon receipt, the CO must immediately investigate the complaint. The investigation must include interviews with the employer who has submitted the complaint, the person or entity named as responsible for withholding the U.S. workers, and the individual U.S. workers whose availability has purportedly been withheld.
(c)
Duty to suspend the recruitment period.
Where the CO determines, after conducting the interviews required by paragraph (b) of this section, that the employer's complaint is valid and justified, the CO will immediately suspend the applicable recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d), to the employer. The CO's determination is the final decision of the Secretary.
§ 655.158
Duration of positive recruitment.
Except as otherwise noted, the obligation to engage in positive recruitment described in §§ 655.150 through 655.154 will terminate on the date H-2A workers depart for the employer's place of employment. Unless the SWA is informed in writing of a different date, the date that is the third day preceding the employer's first date of need will be determined to be the date the H-2A workers departed for the employer's place of employment.

# Labor Certification Determinations
§ 655.160
Determinations.
Except as otherwise noted in this section, the CO will make a determination either to grant or deny the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
not later than 30 calendar days before the first date of need identified in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
An
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
that is modified under § 655.142 or that otherwise does not meet the requirements for certification in this subpart is not subject to the 30-day timeframe for certification.
§ 655.161
Criteria for certification.
(a) The criteria for certification include whether the employer has complied with the applicable requirements of parts 653 and 654 of this chapter, and all requirements of this subpart, which are necessary to grant the labor certification.
(b) In making a determination as to whether there are insufficient U.S. workers to fill the employer's job opportunity, the CO will count as available any U.S. worker referred by the SWA or any U.S. worker who applied (or on whose behalf an application is made) directly to the employer, whom the employer has not rejected for a lawful, job-related reason.
§ 655.162
Approved certification.
If temporary agricultural labor certification is granted, the CO will send a Final Determination notice and a copy of the certified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order to the employer and a copy, if applicable, to the employer's agent or attorney using an electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. For employers permitted to file by mail as set forth in § 655.130(c), the CO will send the Final Determination notice and a copy of the certified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order by means normally assuring next day delivery. The CO will send the certified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order, including any approved modifications, directly to USCIS using an electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator.
§ 655.163
Certification fee.
A determination by the CO to grant an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in whole or in part will include a bill for the required certification fees. Each employer of H-2A workers under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
(except joint employer agricultural associations, which may not be assessed a fee in addition to the fees assessed to the employer-members of the agricultural association) must pay in a timely manner a non-refundable fee upon issuance of the certification granting the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
(in whole or in part), as follows:
(a)
Amount.
The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
fee for each employer receiving a temporary agricultural labor certification is $100
plus $10 for each H-2A worker certified under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
provided that the fee to an employer for each temporary agricultural labor certification received will be no greater than $1,000. There is no additional fee to the association filing the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
. The fees must be paid by check or money order made payable to United States Department of Labor. In the case of an agricultural association acting as a joint employer applying on behalf of its H-2A employer-members, the aggregate fees for all employers of H-2A workers under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must be paid by one check or money order.
(b)
Timeliness.
Fees must be received by the CO no more than 30 calendar days after the date of the certification. Non-payment or untimely payment may be considered a substantial violation subject to the procedures in § 655.182.
§ 655.164
Denied certification.
If temporary agricultural labor certification is denied, the CO will send a Final Determination notice to the employer and a copy, if appropriate, to the employer's agent or attorney using an electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. For employers permitted to file by mail as set forth in § 655.130(c), the CO will send the Final Determination notice by means normally assuring next day delivery. The Final Determination notice will:
(a) State the reason(s) certification is denied, citing the relevant regulatory standards;
(b) Offer the employer an opportunity to request an expedited administrative review or a de novo administrative hearing before an ALJ of the denial under § 655.171; and
(c) State that if the employer does not request an expedited administrative judicial review or a de novo hearing before an ALJ in accordance with § 655.171, the denial is final, and the Department will not accept any appeal on that
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
.
§ 655.165
Partial certification.
The CO may issue a partial certification, reducing either the period of employment or the number of H-2A workers being requested or both for certification, based upon information the CO receives during the course of processing the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
an audit, or otherwise. The number of workers certified will be reduced by one for each U.S. worker who is able, willing, and qualified, and who will be available at the time and place needed and has not been rejected for lawful, job-related reasons, to perform the labor or services. If a partial labor certification is issued, the CO will send the Final Determination notice approving partial certification using the procedures at § 655.162. The Final Determination notice will:
(a) State the reason(s) the period of employment and/or the number of H-2A workers requested has been reduced, citing the relevant regulatory standards;
(b) Offer the employer an opportunity to request an expedited administrative review or a de novo administrative hearing before an ALJ of the partial certification under § 655.171; and
(c) State that if the employer does not request an expedited administrative judicial review or a de novo hearing before an ALJ in accordance with § 655.171, the partial certification is final, and the Department will not accept any appeal on that
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
.
§ 655.166
Requests for determinations based on nonavailability of U.S. workers.
(a)
Standards for requests.
If a temporary agricultural labor certification has been partially granted or denied based on the CO's determination that able, willing, available, eligible, and qualified U.S. workers are available, and, on or after 30 calendar days before the first date of need, some or all of those U.S. workers are, in fact, no longer able, willing, eligible, qualified, or available, the employer may request a new temporary agricultural labor certification determination from the CO. Prior to making a new determination, the CO will promptly ascertain
(which may be through the SWA or other sources of information on U.S. worker availability) whether specific able, willing, eligible and qualified replacement U.S. workers are available or can be reasonably expected to be present at the employer's establishment within 72 hours from the date the employer's request was received. The CO will expeditiously, but in no case later than 72 hours after the time a complete request (including the signed statement included in paragraph (b) of this section) is received, make a determination on the request under paragraph (c) of this section. An employer may appeal a denial of such a determination in accordance with the procedures contained in § 655.171.
(b)
Unavailability of U.S. workers.
The employer's request for a new determination must be made directly to the CO in writing using an electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator, unless the employer requests to file the request by mail as set forth in § 655.130(c). If the employer requests the new determination by asserting solely that U.S. workers have become unavailable, the employer must submit to the CO a signed statement confirming such assertion. If such signed statement is not received by the CO within 72 hours of the CO's receipt of the request for a new determination, the CO will deny the request.
(c)
Notification of determination.
If the CO determines that U.S. workers have become unavailable and cannot identify sufficient available U.S. workers who are able, willing, eligible, and qualified or who are likely to become available, the CO will grant the employer's request for a new determination on the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with the procedures contained in § 655.162 or § 655.165. However, this does not preclude an employer from submitting subsequent requests for new determinations, if warranted, based on subsequent facts concerning purported nonavailability of U.S. workers or referred workers not being eligible workers or not able, willing, or qualified because of lawful, job-related reasons.
§ 655.167
Document retention requirements of H-2A employers.
(a)
Entities required to retain documents.
All employers must retain documents and records demonstrating compliance with this subpart.
(b)
Period of required retention.
Records and documents must be retained for a period of 3 years from the date of certification of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or from the date of determination if the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is denied or withdrawn.
(c)
Documents and records to be retained by all employers.
All employers must retain:
(1) Proof of recruitment efforts, including:
(i) Job order placement as specified in § 655.121;
(ii) Contact with former U.S. workers as specified in § 655.153; and
(iii) Additional positive recruitment efforts as specified in § 655.154.
(2) Substantiation of information submitted in the recruitment report prepared in accordance with § 655.156, such as evidence of nonapplicability of contact of former employees as specified in § 655.153.
(3) The final recruitment report and any supporting resumes and contact information as specified in § 655.156(b).
(4) Proof of workers' compensation insurance or State law coverage as specified in § 655.122(e).
(5) Records of each worker's earnings as specified in § 655.122(j).
(6) The work contract or a copy of the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
as defined in § 655.103(b) and specified in § 655.122(q).
(7) If applicable, records of notice to the NPC and to DHS of the abandonment of employment or termination for cause of a worker as set forth in § 655.122(n).
(8) Written contracts with agents or recruiters as specified in § 655.137(a) and the identities and locations of persons hired by or working for the agent or recruiter and the agents and employees of these agents and recruiters, as specified in § 655.137(b).
(9) The identity, location, and contact information of all persons who are
the owners of each employer, as specified in § 655.130(a)(2), and the identity, location, and contact information of all persons and entities who are the operators of the place of employment (if different than the employers) and of all persons who manage or supervise any H-2A worker sponsored under the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or any worker in corresponding employment, as specified in § 655.130(a)(3).
(10) If applicable, disciplinary records, including each step of progressive discipline, any evidence the worker presented in their defense, any investigation related to the termination, and any subsequent instruction afforded the worker.
(11) If applicable, records indicating the reason(s) for termination of any worker, including disciplinary records described in § 655.122(n)(4)(ii) and this section, relating to the termination as set forth in § 655.122(n).
(12) If applicable, evidence demonstrating the employer notified the SWA and each worker of an unforeseen minor delay in the start date of need, as specified in § 655.175(b)(2)(i).
(d)
Additional retention requirement for agricultural associations filing an Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
In addition to the documents specified in paragraph (c) of this section, associations must retain documentation substantiating their status as an employer or agent, as specified in § 655.131.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34063, Apr. 29, 2024]

# Post-Certification
§ 655.170
Extensions.
An employer may apply for extensions of the period of employment in the following circumstances.
(a)
Short-term extension.
Employers seeking extensions of 2 weeks or less of the certified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must apply directly to DHS for approval. If granted, the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will be deemed extended for such period as is approved by DHS.
(b)
Long-term extension.
Employers seeking extensions of more than 2 weeks may apply to the CO. Such requests must be related to weather conditions or other factors beyond the control of the employer (which may include unforeseen changes in market conditions). Such requests must be supported in writing, with documentation showing that the extension is needed and that the need could not have been reasonably foreseen by the employer. The CO will notify the employer of the decision in writing if time allows, or will otherwise notify the employer of the decision. The CO will not grant an extension where the total work contract period under that
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and extensions would last longer than 1 year, except in extraordinary circumstances. The employer may appeal a denial of a request for an extension by following the procedures in § 655.171.
(c)
Disclosure.
The employer must provide to the workers a copy of any approved extension in accordance with § 655.122(q), as soon as practicable.
§ 655.171
Appeals.
(a)
Request for review.
Where authorized in this subpart, an employer seeking review of a decision of the CO must request an administrative review or de novo hearing before an ALJ of that decision to exhaust its administrative remedies. In such cases, the request for review:
(1) Except as provided in § 655.181(b)(3), must be received by the Chief ALJ, and the CO who issued the decision, within 10 business days from the date of the CO's decision;
(2) Must clearly identify the particular decision for which review is sought;
(3) Must include a copy of the CO's decision;
(4) Must clearly state whether the employer is seeking administrative review or a de novo hearing. If the request does not clearly state the employer is seeking a de novo hearing, then the employer waives its right to a hearing, and the case will proceed as a request for administrative review;
(5) Must set forth the particular grounds for the request, including the specific factual issues the requesting party alleges needs to be examined in
connection with the CO's decision in question;
(6) May contain any legal argument that the employer believes will rebut the basis of the CO's action, including any briefing the employer wishes to submit where the request is for administrative review;
(7) May contain only such evidence as was actually before the CO at the time of the CO's decision, where the request is for administrative review; and
(8) May contain new evidence for the ALJ's consideration, where the request is for a de novo hearing, provided that the new evidence is introduced at the hearing.
(b)
Administrative file.
After the receipt of the request for review, the CO will send a copy of the OFLC administrative file to the Chief ALJ, the employer, the employer's attorney or agent (if applicable), and the Associate Solicitor for Employment and Training Legal Services, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. DOL (counsel), as soon as practicable by means normally assuring next-day delivery.
(c)
Assignment.
The Chief ALJ will immediately assign an ALJ to consider the particular case, which may be a single member or a three-member panel of the BALCA.
(d)
Administrative review
—(1)
Briefing schedule.
If the employer wishes to submit a brief on appeal, it must do so as part of its request for review. Within 7 business days of receipt of the OFLC administrative file, the counsel for the CO may submit a brief in support of the CO's decision and, if applicable, in response to the employer's brief.
(2)
Standard of review.
The ALJ must uphold the CO's decision unless shown by the employer to be arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with the law.
(3)
Scope of review.
The ALJ will consider the documents in the OFLC administrative file that were before the CO at the time of the CO's decision and any written submissions from the parties or amici curiae that do not contain new evidence. The ALJ may not consider evidence not before the CO at the time of the CO's decision, even if such evidence is in the administrative file. After due consideration, the ALJ will affirm, reverse, or modify the CO's decision, or remand to the CO for further action, except in cases over which the Secretary has assumed jurisdiction pursuant to 29 CFR 18.95.
(4)
Decision.
The decision of the ALJ must specify the reasons for the action taken and must be immediately provided to the employer, the employer's attorney or agent (if applicable), the CO, and counsel for the CO within 7 business days of the submission of the CO's brief or 10 business days after receipt of the OFLC administrative file, whichever is later, using means normally assuring next-day delivery.
(e)
De novo hearing
—(1)
Conduct of hearing.
Where the employer has requested a de novo hearing the procedures in 29 CFR part 18 apply to such hearings, except that:
(i) The appeal will not be considered to be a complaint to which an answer is required;
(ii) The ALJ will ensure that the hearing is scheduled to take place within 14 business days after the ALJ's receipt of the OFLC administrative file, if the employer so requests, and will allow for the introduction of new evidence during the hearing as appropriate;
(iii) The ALJ may authorize discovery and the filing of pre-hearing motions, and so limit them to the types and quantities which in the ALJ's discretion will contribute to a fair hearing without unduly burdening the parties;
(iv) The ALJ's decision must be rendered within 10 calendar days after the hearing; and
(v) If the employer waives the right to a hearing, such as by asking for a decision on the record, or if the ALJ determines there are no disputed material facts to warrant a hearing, then the standard and scope of review for administrative review applies.
(2)
Standard and scope of review.
The ALJ will review the evidence presented during the hearing and the CO's decision de novo. The ALJ may determine that there are no issues of material fact, or only some issues of material fact, for which there is a genuine dispute, and may subsequently limit the hearing to only issues of material fact for which there is a genuine dispute. If
new evidence is submitted with a request for a de novo hearing, and the ALJ subsequently determines that a hearing is warranted, the new evidence provided with the request must be introduced at the hearing to be considered by the ALJ. After a de novo hearing, the ALJ must affirm, reverse, or modify the CO's decision, or remand to the CO for further action, except in cases over which the Secretary has assumed jurisdiction pursuant to 29 CFR 18.95.
(3)
Decision.
The decision of the ALJ must specify the reasons for the action taken and must be immediately provided to the employer, the employer's attorney or agent (if applicable), the CO, and counsel for the CO by means normally assuring next-day delivery.
§ 655.172
Post-certification withdrawals.
(a) The employer may withdraw an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and the related job order after the CO grants certification under § 655.160. However, the employer is still obligated to comply with the terms and conditions of employment contained in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order with respect to all workers recruited in connection with that application and job order.
(b) To request withdrawal, the employer must submit a request in writing to the NPC identifying the certification and stating the reason(s) for the withdrawal.
§ 655.173
Setting meal charges; petition for higher meal charges.
(a)
Meal charges.
An employer may charge workers up to $14.00 per day for providing them with three meals. The maximum charge allowed by this paragraph (a) will be changed annually by the same percentage as the 12-month percentage change for the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers for Food between December of the year just concluded and December of the year prior to that. The annual adjustments will be effective on the date of their publication by the OFLC Administrator in the
Federal Register.
When a charge or deduction for the cost of meals would bring the employee's wage below the minimum wage set by the FLSA at 29 U.S.C. 206, the charge or deduction must meet the requirements of the FLSA at 29 U.S.C. 203(m), including the recordkeeping requirements found at 29 CFR 516.27.
(b)
Petitions for higher meal charges.
The employer may file a petition with the CO to request approval to charge more than the applicable amount set under paragraph (a) of this section.
(1)
Filing a higher meal charge request.
To request approval to charge more than the applicable amount set under paragraph (a) of this section, the employer must submit the documentation required by either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. A higher meal charge request will be denied, in whole or in part, if the employer's documentation does not justify the higher meal charge requested.
(i)
Meals prepared directly by the employer.
Documentation submitted must include only the cost of goods and services directly related to the preparation and serving of meals, the number of workers fed, the number of meals served, and the number of days meals were provided. The cost of the following items may be included in the employer's charge to workers for providing prepared meals: food; kitchen supplies other than food, such as lunch bags and soap; labor costs that have a direct relation to food service operations, such as wages of cooks and dining hall supervisors; fuel, water, electricity, and other utilities used for the food service operation; and other costs directly related to the food service operation. Charges for transportation, depreciation, overhead, and similar charges may not be included. Receipts and other cost records for a representative pay period must be retained and must be available for inspection for a period of 3 years.
(ii)
Meals provided through a third party.
Documentation submitted must identify each third party that the employer will engage to prepare meals, describe how the employer will fulfill its obligation to provide three meals per day to workers through its agreement with the third party, and document the third party's charge(s) to the employer for the meals to be provided. Neither the third party's charge(s) to
the employer nor the employer's meal charge to workers may include a profit, kick back, or other direct or indirect benefit to the employer, a person affiliated with the employer, or to another person for the employer's benefit. Receipts and other cost records documenting payments made to the third party that prepared the meals and meal charge deductions from employee pay must be retained for the period provided in § 655.167(b) and must be available for inspection by the CO and WHD during an investigation.
(2)
Effective date and scope of validity of a higher meal charge approval.
The employer may begin charging the higher rate upon receipt of approval from the CO, unless the CO sets a later effective date in the decision, and after disclosing to workers any change in the meal charge or deduction. A favorable decision from the CO is valid only for the meal provision arrangement documented under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the approved higher meal charge amount. If the approved meal provision arrangement changes, the employer may charge no more than the maximum permitted under paragraph (a) of this section until a new petition for a higher meal charge based on the new arrangement is approved.
(3)
Appeal rights.
In the event the employer's petition for a higher meal charge is denied in whole or in part, the employer may appeal the denial. Appeals will be filed with the Chief ALJ, pursuant to § 655.171.
§ 655.174
Public disclosure.
The Department will maintain an electronic file accessible to the public with information on all employers applying for temporary agricultural labor certifications. The database will include such information as the number of workers requested, the date filed, the date decided, and the final disposition.
§ 655.175
Post-certification changes to applications for temporary employment certification.
(a)
No post-certification changes.
The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may not be changed after certification, except where authorized in this subpart. The employer is obligated to comply with the terms and conditions of employment contained in the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order with respect to all workers recruited in connection with its certification.
(b)
Post-certification changes to the first date of work.
Where the work under the approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will not begin on the first date of need certified and will be delayed for a period of no more than 14 calendar days, due to circumstances that could not have been foreseen, and the crops or commodities will be in jeopardy prior to the expiration of an additional recruitment period, the employer need not withdraw an approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
provided the employer complies with the obligations at paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) In the event of a delay, the employer must provide to all workers who are already traveling to the place of employment, upon their arrival and without cost to the workers until work commences, daily subsistence in the same amount required during travel under § 655.122(h)(1), except for days for which the worker receives compensation under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The employer must fulfill this subsistence obligation to the worker no later than the first date the worker would have been paid had they begun employment on time. Employers must comply with all other requirements of the certified
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
beginning on the first date of need certified, including but not limited to housing under § 655.122(d).
(2)(i) In the event of a delay, the employer must notify the SWA and each worker to be employed under the job order associated with the approved
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
of the delay at least 10 business days before the certified start date of need. The employer must notify the worker in writing, in a language understood by the worker, as necessary or reasonable, using the contact information the worker provided to the employer. If the worker provides electronic contact information, such as an email address or telephone number, the
employer must send notice using that email address and telephone number. The employer may provide telephonic notice, provided the employer also sends written notice using the email or postal address provided by the worker. The employer must retain evidence of such notification under § 655.167(c)(12).
(ii) If the employer fails to provide timely notification required under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section to any worker(s), the employer must pay such worker(s) the highest of the hourly rates of pay at § 655.120(a), or, if applicable, the rate required under § 655.211(a)(1), for each hour of the offered work schedule in the job order, for each day that work is delayed, for a period up to 14 calendar days. The employer must fulfill this obligation to the worker no later than the first date the worker would have been paid had they begun employment on time.
(iii) For purposes of an employer's compliance with the three-fourths guarantee under § 655.122(i), any compensation paid to a worker under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section for any workday included within the time period described in § 655.122(i) will be considered hours offered to the worker.
[89 FR 34064, Apr. 29, 2024]

# Integrity Measures
§ 655.180
Audit.
The CO may conduct audits of applications for which certifications have been granted.
(a)
Discretion.
The CO has the sole discretion to choose the certified applications selected for audit.
(b)
Audit letter.
Where an application is selected for audit, the CO will issue an audit letter to the employer and a copy, if appropriate, to the employer's agent or attorney. The audit letter will:
(1) Specify the documentation that must be submitted by the employer;
(2) Specify a date, no more than 30 calendar days from the date the audit letter is issued, by which the required documentation must be sent to the CO; and
(3) Advise that failure to fully comply with the audit process may result in the revocation of the certification or program debarment.
(c)
Supplemental information request.
During the course of the audit examination, the CO may request supplemental information and/or documentation from the employer in order to complete the audit. If circumstances warrant, the CO can issue one or more requests for supplemental information.
(d)
Potential referrals.
In addition to measures in this subpart, the CO may decide to provide the audit findings and underlying documentation to DHS, WHD, or other appropriate enforcement agencies. The CO may refer any findings that an employer discouraged an eligible U.S. worker from applying, or failed to hire, discharged, or otherwise discriminated against an eligible U.S. worker, to the Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Immigrant and Employee Rights Section.
§ 655.181
Revocation.
(a)
Basis for DOL revocation.
The OFLC Administrator may revoke a temporary agricultural labor certification approved under this subpart, if the OFLC Administrator finds:
(1) The issuance of the temporary agricultural labor certification was not justified due to fraud or misrepresentation in the application process, including because the certification was issued in error to a debarred employer, including a successor in interest, during the period of debarment as set forth in § 655.182(c)(2);
(2) The employer substantially violated a material term or condition of the approved temporary agricultural labor certification, as defined in § 655.182;
(3) The employer failed to cooperate with a DOL investigation or with a DOL official performing an investigation, inspection, audit (as discussed in § 655.180), or law enforcement function under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart; or
(4) The employer failed to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies imposed by WHD, or with one or more decisions or orders of the Secretary or a court order secured by the Secretary under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart.
(b)
DOL procedures for revocation
—(1)
Notice of Revocation.
If the OFLC Administrator makes a determination to
revoke an employer's temporary agricultural labor certification, the OFLC Administrator will send to the employer (and its attorney or agent) a Notice of Revocation. The Notice will contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation, and it will inform the employer of its right to submit rebuttal evidence or to appeal as provided in this paragraph (b)(1) and in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If the employer does not file rebuttal evidence or an appeal within 14 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Revocation, the Notice is the final agency action and will take effect immediately at the end of the 14-day period.
(2)
Rebuttal.
The employer may submit evidence to rebut the grounds stated in the Notice of Revocation within 14 calendar days of the date the Notice is issued. If rebuttal evidence is timely filed by the employer, the OFLC Administrator will inform the employer of the OFLC Administrator's final determination on the revocation within 14 calendar days of receiving the rebuttal evidence. If the OFLC Administrator determines that the certification should be revoked, the OFLC Administrator will inform the employer of its right to appeal as provided in this paragraph (b)(2) and in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If the employer does not appeal the OFLC Administrator's final determination within 10 calendar days, it will become the final agency action.
(3)
Appeal.
An employer may appeal a Notice of Revocation, or a final determination of the OFLC Administrator after the review of rebuttal evidence, according to the appeal procedures of § 655.171. In such cases, the appeal must be received by the Chief ALJ, and the OFLC Administrator, within the time periods established in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(4)
Stay.
The timely filing of rebuttal evidence or an administrative appeal will stay the revocation pending the outcome of those proceedings.
(5)
Decision.
If the temporary agricultural labor certification is revoked, the OFLC Administrator will send a copy of the final agency action to DHS and the Department of State (DOS).
(c)
Employer's obligations in the event of revocation.
If an employer's temporary agricultural labor certification is revoked, the employer is responsible for:
(1) Reimbursement of actual inbound transportation and subsistence expenses, as if the worker meets the requirements for payment under § 655.122(h)(1);
(2) The worker's outbound transportation and subsistence expenses, as if the worker meets the requirements for payment under § 655.122(h)(2);
(3) Payment to the worker of the amount due under the three-fourths guarantee as required by § 655.122(i); and
(4) Any other wages, benefits, and working conditions due or owing to the worker under this subpart.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34064, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.182
Debarment.
(a)
Debarment of an employer, agent, or attorney.
The OFLC Administrator may debar an employer, agent, or attorney from participating in any action under 8 U.S.C. 1188, this subpart, or 29 CFR part 501 subject to the time limits set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, if the OFLC Administrator finds that the employer, agent, or attorney substantially violated a material term or condition of the temporary agricultural labor certification, with respect to H-2A workers; workers in corresponding employment; or U.S. workers improperly rejected for employment, or improperly laid off or displaced.
(b)
Effect on future applications.
(1) No application for H-2A workers may be filed by or on behalf of a debarred employer, or by an employer represented by a debarred agent or attorney, subject to the term limits set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. If such an application is filed, it will be denied without review.
(2) No application for H-2A workers may be filed by or on behalf of a successor in interest to a debarred employer, agent, or attorney, subject to the term limits set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. If the CO determines that such an application is filed, the CO will issue a NOD pursuant to § 655.141 or deny the application pursuant to § 655.164, as appropriate depending upon the status of the
Application
for Temporary Employment Certification,
solely on the basis that the entity is a successor in interest to a debarred employer, agent, or attorney. The employer, agent, or attorney may appeal its status as a successor in interest to the debarred entity, pursuant to the procedures for appeals of CO determinations at § 655.171.
(c)
Statute of limitations and period of debarment.
(1) The OFLC Administrator must issue any Notice of Debarment not later than 2 years after the occurrence of the violation.
(2) No employer, agent, or attorney may be debarred under this subpart for more than 3 years from the date of the final agency decision.
(d)
Definition of violation.
For the purposes of this section, a violation includes:
(1) One or more acts of commission or omission on the part of the employer or the employer's agent which involve:
(i) Failure to pay or provide the required wages, benefits, or working conditions to the employer's H-2A workers and/or workers in corresponding employment;
(ii) Failure, except for lawful, job-related reasons, to offer employment to qualified U.S. workers who applied for the job opportunity for which certification was sought;
(iii) Failure to comply with the employer's obligations to recruit U.S. workers;
(iv) Improper layoff or displacement of U.S. workers or workers in corresponding employment;
(v) Failure to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies imposed by the WHD Administrator for violation(s) of contractual or other H-2A obligations, or with one or more decisions or orders of the Secretary or a court under 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart;
(vi) Impeding an investigation of an employer under 8 U.S.C. 1188 or 29 CFR part 501, or an audit under § 655.180;
(vii) Employing an H-2A worker outside the area of intended employment, in an activity/activities not listed in the job order or outside the validity period of employment of the job order, including any approved extension thereof;
(viii) A violation of the requirements of § 655.135(j), (k), or (o);
(ix) A violation of any of the provisions listed in 29 CFR 501.4(a); or
(x) A single heinous act showing such flagrant disregard for the law that future compliance with program requirements cannot reasonably be expected;
(2) The employer's failure to pay a necessary certification fee in a timely manner;
(3) The H-2ALC's failure to submit an original surety bond meeting the requirements of § 655.132(c) within 30 days of the date the temporary agricultural labor certification was issued or failure to submit additional surety within 30 days of a finding under 20 CFR 501.9(a) that the face value of the bond is insufficient;
(4) Fraud involving the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification;
or
(5) A material misrepresentation of fact during the application process.
(e)
Determining whether a violation is substantial.
In determining whether a violation is so substantial as to merit debarment, the factors the OFLC Administrator may consider include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Previous history of violation(s) of 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, or this subpart;
(2) The number of H-2A workers, workers in corresponding employment, or U.S. workers who were and/or are affected by the violation(s);
(3) The gravity of the violation(s);
(4) Efforts made in good faith to comply with 8 U.S.C. 1188, 29 CFR part 501, and this subpart;
(5) Explanation from the person charged with the violation(s);
(6) Commitment to future compliance, taking into account the public health, interest, or safety, and whether the person has previously violated 8 U.S.C. 1188; and
(7) The extent to which the violator achieved a financial gain due to the violation(s), or the potential financial loss or potential injury to the worker(s).
(f)
Debarment procedure
—(1)
Notice of Debarment.
If the OFLC Administrator makes a determination to debar an employer, agent, or attorney, the OFLC Administrator will send the party a Notice of Debarment. The Notice will
state the reason for the debarment finding, including a detailed explanation of the grounds for and the duration of the debarment, and it will inform the party subject to the Notice of its right to submit rebuttal evidence or to request a debarment hearing. If the party does not file rebuttal evidence or request a hearing within 30 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Debarment, the Notice will be the final agency action and the debarment will take effect at the end of the 30-day period.
(2)
Rebuttal.
The party who received the Notice of Debarment may choose to submit evidence to rebut the grounds stated in the Notice within 30 calendar days of the date the Notice is issued. If rebuttal evidence is timely filed, the OFLC Administrator will issue a final determination on the debarment within 30 calendar days of receiving the rebuttal evidence. If the OFLC Administrator determines that the party should be debarred, the OFLC Administrator will inform the party of its right to request a debarment hearing according to the procedures of paragraph (f)(3) of this section. The party must request a hearing within 30 calendar days after the date of the OFLC Administrator's final determination, or the OFLC Administrator's determination will be the final agency action and the debarment will take effect at the end of the 30-calendar-day period.
(3)
Hearing.
The recipient of a Notice of Debarment may request a debarment hearing within 30 calendar days of the date of a Notice of Debarment or the date of a final determination of the OFLC Administrator after review of rebuttal evidence submitted pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section. To obtain a debarment hearing, the debarred party must, within 30 calendar days of the date of the Notice or the final determination, file a written request to the Chief Administrative Law Judge, United States Department of Labor, 800 K Street NW, Suite 400-N, Washington, DC 20001-8002, and simultaneously serve a copy to the OFLC Administrator. The debarment will take effect 30 calendar days from the date the Notice of Debarment or final determination is issued, unless a request for review is properly filed within 30 calendar days from the issuance of the Notice of Debarment or final determination. The timely filing of a request for a hearing stays the debarment pending the outcome of the hearing. Within 10 calendar days of receipt of the request for a hearing, the OFLC Administrator will send a certified copy of the ETA case file to the Chief ALJ by means normally assuring next day delivery. The Chief ALJ will immediately assign an ALJ to conduct the hearing. The procedures in 29 CFR part 18 apply to such hearings, except that the request for a hearing will not be considered to be a complaint to which an answer is required.
(4)
Decision.
After the hearing, the ALJ must affirm, reverse, or modify the OFLC Administrator's determination. The ALJ will prepare the decision within 60 calendar days after completion of the hearing and closing of the record. The ALJ's decision will be provided immediately to the parties to the debarment hearing by means normally assuring next day delivery. The ALJ's decision is the final agency action, unless either party, within 30 calendar days of the ALJ's decision, seeks review of the decision with the Administrative Review Board (ARB).
(5)
Review by the ARB.
(i) Any party wishing review of the decision of an ALJ must, within 30 calendar days of the decision of the ALJ, petition the ARB to review the decision. Copies of the petition must be served on all parties and on the ALJ. The ARB will decide whether to accept the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt. If the ARB declines to accept the petition, or if the ARB does not issue a notice accepting a petition within 30 calendar days after the receipt of a timely filing of the petition, the decision of the ALJ will be deemed the final agency action. If a petition for review is accepted, the decision of the ALJ will be stayed unless and until the ARB issues an order affirming the decision. The ARB must serve notice of its decision to accept or not to accept the petition upon the ALJ and upon all parties to the proceeding.
(ii) Upon receipt of the ARB's notice to accept the petition, the Office of Administrative Law Judges will promptly forward a copy of the complete hearing record to the ARB.
(iii) Where the ARB has determined to review such decision and order, the ARB will notify each party of the issue(s) raised, the form in which submissions must be made (e.g., briefs or oral argument), and the time within which such presentation must be submitted.
(6)
ARB decision.
The ARB's decision must be issued within 90 calendar days from the notice granting the petition and served upon all parties and the ALJ. If the ARB fails to issue a decision within 90 calendar days from the notice granting the petition, the ALJ's decision will be the final agency decision.
(g)
Concurrent debarment jurisdiction.
OFLC and WHD have concurrent jurisdiction to impose a debarment remedy under this section or under 29 CFR 501.20. When considering debarment, OFLC and WHD may inform one another and may coordinate their activities. A specific violation for which debarment is imposed will be cited in a single debarment proceeding. Copies of final debarment decisions will be forwarded to DHS promptly.
(h)
Debarment of associations, employer-members of associations, and joint employers.
If the OFLC Administrator determines that an individual employer-member of an agricultural association, or a joint employer under § 655.131(b), has committed a substantial violation, the debarment determination will apply only to that employer-member unless the OFLC Administrator determines that the agricultural association or another agricultural association member or joint employer under § 655.131(b), participated in the violation, in which case the debarment will be invoked against the agricultural association or other complicit agricultural association member(s) or joint employer(s) under § 655.131(b), as well.
(i)
Debarment involving agricultural associations acting as joint employers.
If the OFLC Administrator determines that an agricultural association acting as a joint employer with its employer-members has committed a substantial violation, the debarment determination will apply only to the agricultural association, and will not be applied to any individual employer-member of the agricultural association. However, if the OFLC Administrator determines that the employer-member participated in, had knowledge of, or had reason to know of the violation, the debarment may be invoked against the complicit agricultural association member as well. An agricultural association debarred from the H-2A temporary labor certification program will not be permitted to continue to file as a joint employer with its employer-members during the period of the debarment.
(j)
Debarment involving agricultural associations acting as sole employers.
If the OFLC Administrator determines that an agricultural association acting as a sole employer has committed a substantial violation, the debarment determination will apply only to the agricultural association and any successor in interest to the debarred agricultural association.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34064, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.183
Less than substantial violations.
(a)
Requirement of special procedures.
If the OFLC Administrator determines that a less than substantial violation has occurred but has reason to believe that past actions on the part of the employer (or agent or attorney) may have had and may continue to have a chilling or otherwise negative effect on the recruitment, employment, and retention of U.S. workers, the OFLC Administrator may require the employer to conform to special procedures before and after the temporary agricultural labor certification determination. These special procedures may include special on-site positive recruitment and streamlined interviewing and referral techniques. The special procedures are designed to enhance U.S. worker recruitment and retention in the next year as a condition for receiving a temporary agricultural labor certification. Such requirements will be reasonable; will not require the employer to offer better wages, working conditions, and benefits than those specified in § 655.122; and will be no more than deemed necessary to assure employer compliance with the test of
U.S. worker availability and adverse effect criteria of this subpart.
(b)
Notification of required special procedures.
The OFLC Administrator will notify the employer (or agent or attorney) in writing of the special procedures that will be required in the coming year. The notification will state the reasons for the imposition of the requirements, state that the employer's agreement to accept the conditions will constitute inclusion of them as bona fide conditions and terms of a temporary agricultural labor certification, and will offer the employer an opportunity to request an administrative review or a de novo hearing before an ALJ. If an administrative review or de novo hearing is requested, the procedures prescribed in § 655.171 will apply.
(c)
Failure to comply with special procedures.
If the OFLC Administrator determines that the employer has failed to comply with special procedures required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the OFLC Administrator will send a written notice to the employer, stating that the employer's otherwise affirmative H-2A certification determination will be reduced by 25 percent of the total number of H-2A workers requested (which cannot be more than those requested in the previous year) for a period of 1 year. Notice of such a reduction in the number of workers requested will be conveyed to the employer by the OFLC Administrator in a written temporary agricultural labor certification determination. The notice will offer the employer an opportunity to request administrative review or a de novo hearing before an ALJ. If administrative review or a de novo hearing is requested, the procedures prescribed in § 655.171 will apply, provided that if the ALJ affirms the OFLC Administrator's determination that the employer has failed to comply with special procedures required by paragraph (a) of this section, the reduction in the number of workers requested will be 25 percent of the total number of H-2A workers requested (which cannot be more than those requested in the previous year) for a period of 1 year.
§ 655.184
Applications involving fraud or willful misrepresentation.
(a)
Referral for investigation.
If the CO discovers possible fraud or willful misrepresentation involving an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the CO may refer the matter to DHS and the Department's Office of the Inspector General for investigation.
(b)
Sanctions.
If WHD, a court, or DHS determines that there was fraud or willful misrepresentation involving an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and certification has been granted, a finding under this paragraph (b) will be cause to revoke the certification. The finding of fraud or willful misrepresentation may also constitute a debarrable violation under § 655.182.
§ 655.185
Job service complaint system; enforcement of work contracts.
(a)
Filing with DOL.
Complaints arising under this subpart must be filed through the Job Service Complaint System, as described in 20 CFR part 658, subpart E. Complaints involving allegations of fraud or misrepresentation must be referred by the SWA to the CO for appropriate handling and resolution. Complaints that involve work contracts must be referred by the SWA to WHD for appropriate handling and resolution, as described in 29 CFR part 501. As part of this process, WHD may report the results of its investigation to the OFLC Administrator for consideration of employer penalties or such other action as may be appropriate.
(b)
Filing with the Department of Justice.
Complaints alleging that an employer discouraged an eligible U.S. worker from applying, failed to hire, discharged, or otherwise discriminated against an eligible U.S. worker, or discovered violations involving the same, will be referred to the U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Immigrant and Employee Rights Section, in addition to any activity, investigation, and/or enforcement action taken by ETA or a SWA. Likewise, if the Immigrant and Employee Rights Section becomes aware of a violation of the regulations in this subpart, it may provide such information to the appropriate SWA and the CO.
§ 655.190
Severability.
If any provision of this subpart is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, or stayed pending further agency action, the provision will be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding is one of total invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision will be severable from this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
[89 FR 34065, Apr. 29, 2024]

# Labor Certification Process for Temporary Agricultural Employment in Range Sheep Herding, Goat Herding, and Production of Livestock Occupations
§ 655.200
Scope and purpose of herding and range livestock regulations in this section and §§ 655.201 through 655.235.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section and §§ 655.201 through 655.235 is to establish certain procedures for employers who apply to the Department to obtain labor certifications to hire temporary agricultural foreign workers to perform herding or production of livestock on the range, as defined in § 655.201. Unless otherwise specified in this section and §§ 655.201 through 655.235, employers whose job opportunities meet the qualifying criteria under this section and §§ 655.201 through 655.235 must fully comply with all of the requirements of §§ 655.100 through 655.185; part 653, subparts B and F, of this chapter; and part 654 of this chapter.
(b)
Jobs subject to this section and §§ 655.201 through 655.235.
The procedures in this section and §§ 655.201 through 655.235 apply to job opportunities with the following unique characteristics:
(1) The work activities involve the herding or production of livestock (which includes work that is closely and directly related to herding and/or the production of livestock), as defined under § 655.201;
(2) The work is performed on the range for the majority (meaning more than 50 percent) of the workdays in the work contract period. Any additional work performed at a place other than the range must constitute the production of livestock (which includes work that is closely and directly related to herding and/or the production of livestock); and
(3) The work activities generally require the workers to be on call 24 hours per day, 7 days a week.
§ 655.201
Definition of herding and range livestock terms.
The following are terms that are not defined in §§ 655.100 through 655.185 and are specific to applications for labor certifications involving the herding or production of livestock on the range.
Herding.
Activities associated with the caring, controlling, feeding, gathering, moving, tending, and sorting of livestock on the range.
Livestock.
An animal species or species group such as sheep, cattle, goats, horses, or other domestic hooved animals. In the context of §§ 655.200 through 655.235, livestock refers to those species raised on the range.
Production of livestock.
The care or husbandry of livestock throughout one or more seasons during the year, including guarding and protecting livestock from predatory animals and poisonous plants; feeding, fattening, and watering livestock; examining livestock to detect diseases, illnesses, or other injuries; administering medical care to sick or injured livestock; applying vaccinations and spraying insecticides on the range; and assisting with the breeding, birthing, raising, weaning, castration, branding, and general care of livestock. This term also includes duties performed off the range that are closely and directly related to herding and/or the production of livestock. The following are non-exclusive examples of ranch work that is closely and directly related: repairing fences used to contain the herd; assembling lambing jugs; cleaning out lambing jugs; feeding and caring for the dogs that the workers use on the range to assist with herding or guarding the flock; feeding and caring for the horses that the workers use on the range to help with herding or to move the sheep camps and supplies; and loading animals into livestock trucks for movement to the range or to market. The
following are examples of ranch work that is not closely and directly related: working at feedlots; planting, irrigating and harvesting crops; operating or repairing heavy equipment; constructing wells or dams; digging irrigation ditches; applying weed control; cutting trees or chopping wood; constructing or repairing the bunkhouse or other ranch buildings; and delivering supplies from the ranch to the herders on the range.
Range.
The range is any area located away from the ranch headquarters used by the employer. The following factors are indicative of the range: it involves land that is uncultivated; it involves wide expanses of land, such as thousands of acres; it is located in a remote, isolated area; and typically range housing is required so that the herder can be in constant attendance to the herd. No one factor is controlling, and the totality of the circumstances is considered in determining what should be considered range. The range does not include feedlots, corrals, or any area where the stock involved would be near ranch headquarters. Ranch headquarters, which is a place where the business of the ranch occurs and is often where the owner resides, is limited and does not embrace large acreage; it only includes the ranchhouse, barns, sheds, pen, bunkhouse, cookhouse, and other buildings in the vicinity. The range also does not include any area where a herder is not required to be available constantly to attend to the livestock and to perform tasks, including but not limited to, ensuring the livestock do not stray, protecting them from predators, and monitoring their health.
Range housing.
Range housing is housing located on the range that meets the standards articulated under § 655.235.
§ 655.205
Herding and range livestock job orders.
An employer whose job opportunity has been determined to qualify for the procedures in §§ 655.200 through 655.235 is not required to comply with the job order filing timeframe requirements in § 655.121(a) and (b) or the job order review process in § 655.121(e) and (f). Rather, the employer must submit the job order along with a completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
as required in § 655.215, to the designated NPC for the NPC's review.
§ 655.210
Contents of herding and range livestock job orders.
(a)
Content of job offers.
Unless otherwise specified in §§ 655.200 through 655.235, the employer must satisfy the requirements for job orders established under § 655.121 and for the content of job offers established under part 653, subpart F, of this chapter and § 655.122.
(b)
Job qualifications and requirements.
The job offer must include a statement that the workers are on call for up to 24 hours per day, 7 days per week and that the workers spend the majority (meaning more than 50 percent) of the workdays during the contract period in the herding or production of livestock on the range. Duties may include activities performed off the range only if such duties constitute the production of livestock (which includes work that is closely and directly related to herding and/or the production of livestock). All such duties must be specifically disclosed on the job order. The job offer may also specify that applicants must possess up to 6 months of experience in similar occupations involving the herding or production of livestock on the range and require reference(s) for the employer to verify applicant experience. An employer may specify other appropriate job qualifications and requirements for its job opportunity. Job offers may not impose on U.S. workers any restrictions or obligations that will not be imposed on the employer's H-2A workers engaged in herding or the production of livestock on the range. Any such requirements must be applied equally to both U.S. and foreign workers. Each job qualification and requirement listed in the job offer must be bona fide, and the CO may require the employer to submit documentation to substantiate the appropriateness of any other job qualifications and requirements specified in the job offer.
(c)
Range housing.
The employer must specify in the job order that range housing will be provided. The range housing must meet the requirements set forth in § 655.235.
(d)
Employer-provided items.
(1) The employer must provide to the worker, without charge or deposit charge, all tools, supplies, and equipment required by law, by the employer, or by the nature of the work to perform the duties assigned in the job offer safely and effectively. The employer must specify in the job order which items it will provide to the worker.
(2) Because of the unique nature of the herding or production of livestock on the range, this equipment must include effective means of communicating with persons capable of responding to the worker's needs in case of an emergency including, but not limited to, satellite phones, cell phones, wireless devices, radio transmitters, or other types of electronic communication systems. The employer must specify in the job order:
(i) The type(s) of electronic communication device(s) and that such device(s) will be provided without charge or deposit charge to the worker during the entire period of employment; and
(ii) If there are periods of time when the workers are stationed in locations where electronic communication devices may not operate effectively, the employer must specify in the job order, the means and frequency with which the employer plans to make contact with the workers to monitor the worker's well-being. This contact must include either arrangements for the workers to be located, on a regular basis, in geographic areas where the electronic communication devices operate effectively, or arrangements for regular, pre-scheduled, in-person visits between the workers and the employer, which may include visits between the workers and other persons designated by the employer to resupply the workers' camp.
(e)
Meals.
The employer must specify in the job offer and provide to the worker, without charge or deposit charge:
(1) Either three sufficient meals a day, or free and convenient cooking facilities and adequate provision of food to enable the worker to prepare their own meals. To be sufficient or adequate, the meals or food provided must include a daily source of protein, vitamins, and minerals; and
(2) Adequate potable water, or water that can be easily rendered potable and the means to do so. Standards governing the provision of water to range workers are also addressed in § 655.235(e).
(f)
Hours and earnings statements.
(1) The employer must keep accurate and adequate records with respect to the worker's earnings and furnish to the worker on or before each payday a statement of earnings. The employer is exempt from recording the hours actually worked each day, the time the worker begins and ends each workday, as well as the nature and amount of work performed, but all other regulatory requirements in § 655.122(j) and (k) apply.
(2) The employer must keep daily records indicating whether the site of the employee's work was on the range or off the range. If the employer prorates a worker's wage pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section because of the worker's voluntary absence for personal reasons, it must also keep a record of the reason for the worker's absence.
(g)
Rates of pay.
(1) The employer must offer, advertise in its recruitment, and pay a wage that is at least the highest of the following rates in effect at the time work is performed, whichever is highest, for every month of the job order period or portion thereof:
(i) The monthly AEWR, as specified in § 655.211;
(ii) The agreed-upon collective bargaining wage;
(iii) The applicable minimum wage imposed by Federal or State law or judicial action; or
(iv) Any other wage rate the employer intends to pay.
(2) The offered wage shall not be based on commissions, bonuses, or other incentives, unless the employer guarantees a wage that equals or exceeds the monthly AEWR, the agreed-upon collective bargaining wage, the applicable minimum wage imposed by Federal or State law or judicial action, any agreed-upon collective bargaining rate, or any other wage rate the employer intends to pay, whichever is highest, and must be paid to each
worker free and clear without any unauthorized deductions.
(3) The employer may prorate the wage for the initial and final pay periods of the job order period if its pay period does not match the beginning or ending dates of the job order. The employer also may prorate the wage if a worker is voluntarily unavailable to work for personal reasons.
(4) If applicable, the employer must state in the job order:
(i) That overtime hours may be available;
(ii) The wage rate(s) to be paid for any such overtime hours;
(iii) The circumstances under which the wage rate(s) for overtime hours will be paid, including, but not limited to, after how many hours in a day or workweek the overtime wage rate will be paid, and whether overtime wage rates will vary between-place(s) of employment; and
(iv) Where the overtime pay is required by law, the applicable Federal, State, or local law requiring the overtime pay.
(h)
Frequency of pay.
The employer must state in the job offer the frequency with which the worker will be paid, which must be at least twice monthly. Employers must pay wages when due.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34065, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 655.211
Herding and range livestock wage rate.
(a)
Compliance with rates of pay.
(1) To comply with its obligation under § 655.210(g), an employer must offer, advertise in its recruitment, and pay each worker employed under §§ 655.200 through 655.235 a wage that is at least the highest of the monthly AEWR established under this section, the agreed-upon collective bargaining wage, the applicable minimum wage imposed by Federal or State law or judicial action, or any other wage rate the employer intends to pay. The employer must list all potentially applicable wage rates in the job order and must offer and advertise all of these wage rates in its recruitment.
(2) If the monthly AEWR established under this section is adjusted during a work contract, and is higher than the agreed-upon collective bargaining wage, the applicable minimum wage imposed by Federal or State law or judicial action in effect at the time the work is performed, and any other wage rate the employer offered to pay, the employer must pay at least that adjusted monthly AEWR upon the effective date of the updated monthly AEWR published by the Department in the
Federal Register
.
(b)
Publication of the monthly AEWR.
The OFLC Administrator will publish, at least once in each calendar year, on a date to be determined by the OFLC Administrator, an update to the monthly AEWR as a document in the
Federal Register
.
(c)
Monthly AEWR rate.
(1) The monthly AEWR shall be $7.25 multiplied by 48 hours, and then multiplied by 4.333 weeks per month; and
(2) Beginning for calendar year 2017, the monthly AEWR shall be adjusted annually based on the Employment Cost Index (ECI) for wages and salaries published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) for the preceding October-October period.
(d)
Transition rates.
(1) For the period from November 16, 2015, through calendar year 2016, the Department shall set the monthly AEWR at 80 percent of the result of the formula in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) For calendar year 2017, the Department shall set the monthly AEWR at 90 percent of the result of the formula in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) For calendar year 2018 and beyond, the Department shall set the monthly AEWR at 100 percent of the result of the formula in paragraph (c) of this section.
[87 FR 61791, Oct. 12, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 34065, Apr. 29, 2024
§ 655.215
Procedures for filing herding and range livestock
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.
(a)
Compliance with §§ 655.130 through 655.132.
Unless otherwise specified in §§ 655.200 through 655.235, the employer must satisfy the requirements for filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with the NPC designated by the OFLC Administrator as
required under §§ 655.130 through 655.132.
(b)
What to file.
An employer must file a completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order.
(1) The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order may cover multiple areas of intended employment in one or more contiguous States.
(2) An agricultural association filing as a joint employer may submit a single job order and master
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of its employer-members located in more than two contiguous States with different first dates of need. Unless modifications to a sheep or goat herding or production of livestock job order are required by the CO or requested by the employer, pursuant to § 655.121(h), the agricultural association is not required to re-submit the job order during the calendar year with its
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
§ 655.220
Processing herding and range livestock
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.
(a)
NPC review.
Unless otherwise specified in §§ 655.200 through 655.235, the CO will review and process the
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order in accordance with the requirements outlined in §§ 655.140 through 655.145, and will work with the employer to address any deficiencies in the job order in a manner consistent with §§ 655.140 through 655.141.
(b)
Notice of acceptance.
Once the job order is determined to meet all regulatory requirements, the NPC will issue a NOA consistent with § 655.143(b), provide notice to the employer authorizing conditional access to the interstate clearance system, and transmit an electronic copy of the approved job order to each SWA with jurisdiction over the anticipated place(s) of employment. The CO will direct the SWA to place the job order promptly in clearance and commence recruitment of U.S. workers. Where an agricultural association files as a joint employer and submits a single job order on behalf of its employer-members, the CO will transmit a copy of the job order to the SWA having jurisdiction over the location of the agricultural association, those SWAs having jurisdiction over other States where the work will take place, and to the SWAs in all States designated under § 655.154(d), directing each SWA to place the job order in intrastate clearance and commence recruitment of U.S. workers.
(c)
Electronic job registry.
Under § 655.144(b), where a single job order is approved for an agricultural association filing as a joint employer on behalf of its employer-members with different first dates of need, the Department will keep the job order posted on the OFLC electronic job registry until the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d), has elapsed for all employer-members identified on the job order.
§ 655.225
Post-acceptance requirements for herding and range livestock.
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this section, the requirements for recruiting U.S. workers by the employer and SWA must be satisfied, as specified in §§ 655.150 through 655.158.
(b) Pursuant to § 655.150(b), where a single job order is approved for an agricultural association filing as a joint employer on behalf of its employer-members with different first dates of need, each of the SWAs to which the job order was transmitted by the CO or the SWA having jurisdiction over the location of the agricultural association must keep the job order on its active file the end of the recruitment period, as set forth in § 655.135(d), has elapsed for all employer-members identified on the job order, and must refer to the agricultural association each qualified U.S. worker who applies (or on whose behalf an application is made) for the job opportunity.
(c) Any eligible U.S. worker who applies (or on whose behalf an application is made) for the job opportunity and is hired will be placed at the location nearest to them absent a request for a different location by the U.S. worker. Employers must make reasonable efforts to accommodate such placement requests by the U.S. worker.
(d) An agricultural association that fulfills the recruitment requirements for its employer-members is required to maintain a written recruitment report containing the information required by § 655.156 for each individual employer-member identified in the application or job order, including any approved modifications.
§ 655.230
Range housing.
(a) Housing for work performed on the range must meet the minimum standards contained in §§ 655.235 and 655.122(d)(2).
(b) The SWA with jurisdiction over the location of the range housing must inspect and certify that such housing used on the range is sufficient to accommodate the number of certified workers and meets all applicable standards contained in § 655.235. The SWA must conduct a housing inspection no less frequently than once every three calendar years after the initial inspection and provide documentation to the employer certifying the housing for a period lasting no more than 36 months. If the SWA determines that an employer's housing cannot be inspected within a 3-year timeframe or, when it is inspected, the housing does not meet all the applicable standards in § 655.235, the CO may deny the H-2A application in full or in part or require additional inspections, to be carried out by the SWA, in order to satisfy the regulatory requirement.
(c)(1) The employer may self-certify its compliance with the standards contained in § 655.235 only when the employer has received a certification from the SWA for the range housing it seeks to use within the past 36 months.
(2) To self-certify the range housing, the employer must submit a copy of the valid SWA housing certification and a written statement, signed and dated by the employer, to the SWA and the CO assuring that the housing is available, sufficient to accommodate the number of workers being requested for temporary agricultural labor certification, and meets all the applicable standards for range housing contained in § 655.235.
(d) The use of range housing at a location other than the range, where fixed-site employer-provided housing would otherwise be required, is permissible only when the worker occupying the housing is performing work that constitutes the production of livestock (which includes work that is closely and directly related to herding and/or the production of livestock). In such a situation, workers must be granted access to facilities, including but not limited to toilets and showers with hot and cold water under pressure, as well as cooking and cleaning facilities, that would satisfy the requirements contained in § 655.122(d)(1)(i). When such work does not constitute the production of livestock, workers must be housed in housing that meets all the requirements of § 655.122(d).
§ 655.235
Standards for range housing.
An employer employing workers under this section and §§ 655.200 through 655.230 may use a mobile unit, camper, or other similar mobile housing vehicle, tents, and remotely located stationary structures along herding trails, which meet the following standards:
(a)
Housing site.
Range housing sites must be well drained and free from depressions where water may stagnate.
(b)
Water supply.
(1) An adequate and convenient supply of water that meets the standards of the State or local health authority must be provided.
(2) The employer must provide each worker at least 4.5 gallons of potable water, per day, for drinking and cooking, delivered on a regular basis, so that the workers will have at least this amount available for their use until this supply is next replenished. Employers must also provide an additional amount of water sufficient to meet the laundry and bathing needs of each worker. This additional water may be non-potable, and an employer may require a worker to rely on natural sources of water for laundry and bathing needs if these sources are available and contain water that is clean and safe for these purposes. If an employer relies on alternate water sources to meet any of the workers' needs, it must take precautionary measures to protect the worker's health where these sources are also used to water the herd, dogs, or horses, to prevent contamination of the sources if they
collect runoff from areas where these animals excrete.
(3) The water provided for use by the workers may not be used to water dogs, horses, or the herd.
(4) In situations where workers are located in areas that are not accessible by motorized vehicle, an employer may request a variance from the requirement that it deliver potable water to workers, provided the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) It seeks the variance at the time it submits its
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
;
(ii) It attests that it has identified natural sources of water that are potable or may be easily rendered potable in the area in which the housing will be located, and that these sources will remain available during the period the worker is at that location;
(iii) It attests that it shall provide each worker an effective means to test whether the water is potable and, if not potable, the means to easily render it potable; and
(iv) The CO approves the variance.
(5) Individual drinking cups must be provided.
(6) Containers appropriate for storing and using potable water must be provided and, in locations subject to freezing temperatures, containers must be small enough to allow storage in the housing unit to prevent freezing.
(c)
Excreta and liquid waste disposal.
(1) Facilities, including shovels, must be provided and maintained for effective disposal of excreta and liquid waste in accordance with the requirements of the State health authority or involved Federal agency; and
(2) If pits are used for disposal by burying of excreta and liquid waste, they must be kept fly-tight when not filled in completely after each use. The maintenance of disposal pits must be in accordance with State and local health and sanitation requirements.
(d)
Housing structure.
(1) Housing must be structurally sound, in good repair, in a sanitary condition and must provide shelter against the elements to occupants;
(2) Housing, other than tents, must have flooring constructed of rigid materials easy to clean and so located as to prevent ground and surface water from entering;
(3) Each housing unit must have at least one window that can be opened or skylight opening directly to the outdoors; and
(4) Tents appropriate to weather conditions may be used only where the terrain and/or land use regulations do not permit the use of other more substantial housing.
(e)
Heating.
(1) Where the climate in which the housing will be used is such that the safety and health of a worker requires heated living quarters, all such quarters must have properly installed operable heating equipment that supplies adequate heat. Where the climate in which the housing will be used is mild and the low temperature for any day in which the housing will be used is not reasonably expected to drop below 50 degrees Fahrenheit, no separate heating equipment is required as long as proper protective clothing and bedding are made available, free of charge or deposit charge, to the workers.
(2) Any stoves or other sources of heat using combustible fuel must be installed and vented in such a manner as to prevent fire hazards and a dangerous concentration of gases. If a solid or liquid fuel stove is used in a room with wooden or other combustible flooring, there must be a concrete slab, insulated metal sheet, or other fireproof material on the floor under each stove, extending at least 18 inches beyond the perimeter of the base of the stove.
(3) Any wall or ceiling within 18 inches of a solid or liquid fuel stove or stove pipe must be made of fireproof material. A vented metal collar must be installed around a stovepipe or vent passing through a wall, ceiling, floor, or roof.
(4) When a heating system has automatic controls, the controls must be of the type that cuts off the fuel supply when the flame fails or is interrupted or whenever a predetermined safe temperature or pressure is exceeded.
(5) A heater may be used in a tent if the heater is approved by a testing service and if the tent is fireproof.
(f)
Lighting.
(1) In areas where it is not feasible to provide electrical service to range housing units, including
tents, lanterns must be provided (kerosene wick lights meet the definition of lantern); and
(2) Lanterns, where used, must be provided in a minimum ratio of one per occupant of each unit, including tents.
(g)
Bathing, laundry, and hand washing.
Bathing, laundry, and hand washing facilities must be provided when it is not feasible to provide hot and cold water under pressure.
(h)
Food storage.
When mechanical refrigeration of food is not feasible, the worker must be provided with another means of keeping food fresh and preventing spoilage, such as a butane or propane gas refrigerator. Other proven methods of safeguarding fresh foods, such as dehydrating or salting, are acceptable.
(i)
Cooking and eating facilities.
(1) When workers or their families are permitted or required to cook in their individual unit, a space must be provided with adequate lighting and ventilation; and
(2) Wall surfaces next to all food preparation and cooking areas must be of nonabsorbent, easy to clean material. Wall surfaces next to cooking areas must be made of fire-resistant material.
(j)
Garbage and other refuse.
(1) Durable, fly-tight, clean containers must be provided to each housing unit, including tents, for storing garbage and other refuse; and
(2) Provision must be made for collecting or burying refuse, which includes garbage, at least twice a week or more often if necessary, except where the terrain in which the housing is located cannot be accessed by motor vehicle and the refuse cannot be buried, in which case the employer must provide appropriate receptacles for storing the refuse and for removing the trash when the employer next transports supplies to the location.
(k)
Insect and rodent control.
Appropriate materials, including sprays, and sealed containers for storing food, must be provided to aid housing occupants in combating insects, rodents, and other vermin.
(l)
Sleeping facilities.
A separate comfortable and clean bed, cot, or bunk, with a clean mattress, must be provided for each person, except in a family arrangement, unless a variance is requested from and granted by the CO. When filing an application for certification and only where it is demonstrated to the CO that it is impractical to provide a comfortable and clean bed, cot, or bunk, with a clean mattress, for each range worker, the employer may request a variance from this requirement to allow for a second worker to join the range operation. Such a variance must be used infrequently, and the period of the variance will be temporary (
i.e.,
the variance shall be for no more than 3 consecutive days). Should the CO grant the variance, the employer must supply a sleeping bag or bed roll for the second occupant free of charge or deposit charge.
(m)
Fire, safety, and first aid.
(1) All units in which people sleep or eat must be constructed and maintained according to applicable State or local fire and safety law.
(2) No flammable or volatile liquid or materials may be stored in or next to rooms used for living purposes, except for those needed for current household use.
(3) Housing units for range use must have a second means of escape through which the worker can exit the unit without difficulty.
(4) Tents are not required to have a second means of escape, except when large tents with walls of rigid material are used.
(5) Adequate, accessible fire extinguishers in good working condition and first aid kits must be provided in the range housing.

# Labor Certification Process for Temporary Agricultural Employment in Animal Shearing, Commercial Beekeeping, Custom Combining, and Reforestation Occupations
§ 655.300
Scope and purpose.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this section and §§ 655.301 through 655.304 is to establish certain procedures for employers who apply to the DOL to obtain labor certifications to hire temporary agricultural foreign workers to perform animal shearing, commercial beekeeping, and custom combining, as defined in this subpart. Unless otherwise
specified in this section and §§ 655.301 through 655.304, employers whose job opportunities meet the qualifying criteria under this section and §§ 655.301 through 655.304 must fully comply with all of the requirements of §§ 655.100 through 655.185; part 653, subparts B and F, of this chapter; and part 654 of this chapter.
(b)
Jobs subject to this section and §§ 655.301 through 655.304.
The procedures in this section and §§ 655.301 through 655.304 apply to job opportunities for animal shearing, commercial beekeeping, and custom combining, as defined under § 655.301, where workers are required to perform agricultural work on a scheduled itinerary covering multiple areas of intended employment.
§ 655.301
Definition of terms.
The following terms are specific to applications for labor certifications involving animal shearing, commercial beekeeping, and custom combining.
Animal shearing.
Activities associated with the shearing and crutching of sheep, goats, or other animals producing wool or fleece, including gathering, moving, and sorting animals into shearing yards, stations, or pens; placing animals into position, whether loose, tied, or otherwise immobilized, prior to shearing; selecting and using suitable handheld or power-driven equipment and tools for shearing; shearing animals with care according to industry standards; marking, sewing, or disinfecting any nicks and cuts on animals due to shearing; cleaning and washing animals after shearing is complete; gathering, storing, loading, and delivering wool or fleece to storage yards, trailers or other containers; and maintaining, oiling, sharpening, and repairing equipment and other tools used for shearing. Transporting equipment and other tools used for shearing qualifies as an activity associated with animal shearing for the purposes of this definition only where such activities are performed by workers who are employed by the same employer as the animal shearing crew and who travel and work with the animal shearing crew. Wool or fleece grading, which involves examining, sorting, and placing unprocessed wool or fleece into containers according to government or industry standards, qualifies as activity associated with animal shearing for the purposes of this definition only where such activity is performed by workers who are employed by the same employer as the animal shearing crew and who travel and work with the animal shearing crew.
Commercial beekeeping.
Activities associated with the care or husbandry of bee colonies for producing and collecting honey, wax, pollen, and other products for commercial sale or providing pollination services to agricultural producers, including assembling, maintaining, and repairing hives, frames, or boxes; inspecting and monitoring colonies to detect diseases, illnesses, or other health problems; feeding and medicating bees to maintain the health of the colonies; installing, raising, and moving queen bees; splitting or dividing colonies, when necessary, and replacing combs; preparing, loading, transporting, and unloading colonies and equipment; forcing bees from hives, inserting honeycomb of bees into hives, or inducing swarming of bees into hives of prepared honeycomb frames; uncapping, extracting, refining, harvesting, and packaging honey, beeswax, or other products for commercial sale; cultivating bees to produce bee colonies and queen bees for sale; and maintaining and repairing equipment and other tools used to work with bee colonies.
Custom combining.
Activities for agricultural producers consisting of: operating self-propelled combine equipment (
i.e.,
equipment that reaps or harvests, threshes, and swath or winnow the crop); performing manual or mechanical adjustments to combine equipment, including cutters, blowers and conveyers; performing safety checks on self-propelled combine equipment; and maintaining and repairing equipment and other tools for performing swathing or combining work; and, where performed by workers employed by the same employer as the custom combining crew and who work and travel with the custom combining crew: transporting harvested crops to elevators, silos, or other storage areas, and transporting combine equipment
and other tools used for custom combining work from one field to another. Neither the planting and cultivation of crops and related activities, nor component parts of custom combining not performed by the harvesting entity (e.g., grain cleaning), are considered custom combining for the purposes of this definition.
§ 655.302
Contents of job orders.
(a)
Content of job offers.
Unless otherwise specified in §§ 655.300 through 655.304, the employer must satisfy the requirements for job orders established under § 655.121 and for the content of job offers established under part 653, subpart F, of this chapter and § 655.122.
(b)
Job qualifications and requirements.
(1) For job opportunities involving animal shearing, the job offer may specify that applicants must possess up to 6 months of experience in similar occupations and require reference(s) for the employer to verify applicant experience. The job offer may also specify that applicants must possess experience with an industry shearing method or pattern, must be willing to join the employer at the time the job opportunity is available and at the place the employer is located, and must be available to complete the scheduled itinerary under the job order. U.S. applicants whose experience is based on a similar or related industry shearing method or pattern must be afforded a break-in period of no less than 5 working days to adapt to the employer's preferred shearing method or pattern.
(2) For job opportunities involving commercial beekeeping, the job offer may specify that applicants must possess up to 3 months of experience in similar occupations and require reference(s) for the employer to verify applicant experience. The job offer may also specify that applicants must not have bee, pollen, or honey-related allergies, must possess a valid commercial U.S. driver's license or be able to obtain such license not later than 30 days after the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment, must be willing to join the employer at the time and place the employer is located, and must be available to complete the scheduled itinerary under the job order.
(3) For job opportunities involving custom combining, the job offer may specify that applicants must possess up to 6 months of experience in similar occupations and require reference(s) for the employer to verify applicant experience. The job offer may also specify that applicants must be willing to join the employer at the time and place the employer is located and must be available to complete the scheduled itinerary under the job order.
(4) An employer may specify other appropriate job qualifications and requirements for its job opportunity, subject to § 655.122(a) and (b).
(c)
Employer-provided communication devices.
For job opportunities involving animal shearing and custom combining, the employer must provide to at least one worker per crew, without charge or deposit charge, effective means of communicating with persons capable of responding to the workers' needs in case of an emergency, including, but not limited to, satellite phones, cell phones, wireless devices, radio transmitters, or other types of electronic communication systems. The employer must specify in the job order the type(s) of electronic communication device(s) and that such devices will be provided without charge or deposit charge to at least one worker per crew during the entire period of employment.
(d)
Housing.
For job opportunities involving animal shearing and custom combining, the employer must specify in the job order that housing will be provided as set forth in § 655.304.
§ 655.303
Procedures for filing
Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.
(a)
Compliance with §§ 655.130 through 655.132.
Unless otherwise specified in §§ 655.300 through 655.304, the employer must satisfy the requirements for filing an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with the NPC designated by the OFLC Administrator as required under §§ 655.130 through 655.132.
(b)
What to file.
An employer must file a completed
Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The employer must identify each place of employment with as much geographic
specificity as possible, including the names of each farm or ranch, their physical locations, and the estimated period of employment at each place of employment where work will be performed under the job order.
(c)
Scope of applications.
The
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order may cover multiple areas of intended employment in one or more contiguous States. An
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order for opportunities involving commercial beekeeping may include one noncontiguous State at the beginning and end of the period of employment for the overwintering of bee colonies.
(d)
Agricultural association filings.
An agricultural association filing as a joint employer may submit a single job order and master
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of its employer-members located in more than two contiguous States. An agricultural association filing as a joint employer may file an
Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job order for opportunities involving commercial beekeeping including one noncontiguous State at the beginning and end of the period of employment for the overwintering of bee colonies.
§ 655.304
Standards for mobile housing.
(a)
Use of mobile housing.
An employer employing workers engaged in animal shearing or custom combining under this section and §§ 655.301 through 655.303 may use a mobile unit, camper, or other similar mobile housing unit that complies with all of the following standards, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section:
(1) In situations where the mobile housing unit will be located on the range (as defined in § 655.201) to enable work to be performed on the range, and where providing housing that meets each of the standards for mobile housing in this section is not feasible, an employer may request a variance from the particular mobile housing standard(s) with which compliance is not feasible. The CO will specify the locations, dates, and specific variances, if approved. The following conditions must be satisfied for an employer to obtain a variance:
(i) The employer seeks the variance at the time it submits its
Application for Temporary Employment Certification;
(ii) The employer identifies the particular mobile housing standard(s), and attests that compliance with the standard(s) is not feasible;
(iii) The employer identifies the location(s) in which the particular mobile housing standard(s) cannot be met;
(iv) The employer identifies the anticipated dates that the mobile housing unit will be in those location(s);
(v) The employer identifies the corresponding range housing standard(s) in § 655.235 that will be met instead, and attests that it will comply with such standard(s);
(vi) The employer attests to the reason why the particular mobile housing(s) standard cannot be met; and,
(vii) The CO approves the variance.
(2) A Canadian employer performing custom combining operations in the United States whose mobile housing unit is located in Canada when not in use must have the housing unit inspected and approved by an authorized representative of the Federal or provincial government of Canada, in accordance with inspection procedures and applicable standards for such housing under Canadian law or regulation.
(b)
Compliance with mobile housing standards.
The employer may comply with the standards for mobile housing in this section in one of two ways:
(1) The employer may provide a mobile housing unit that complies with all applicable standards; or
(2) The employer may provide a mobile housing unit and supplemental facilities (e.g., located at a fixed housing site) if workers are afforded access to all facilities contained in these standards.
(c)
Housing site.
(1) Mobile housing sites must be well drained and free from depressions where water may stagnate. They shall be located where the disposal of sewage is provided in a manner that neither creates, nor is likely to create, a nuisance or a hazard to health.
(2) Mobile housing sites shall not be in proximity to conditions that create or are likely to create offensive odors,
flies, noise, traffic, or any similar hazards.
(3) Mobile housing sites shall be free from debris, noxious plants (e.g., poison ivy, etc.), and uncontrolled weeds or brush.
(d)
Drinking water supply.
(1) An adequate and convenient supply of potable water that meets the standards of the local or State health authority must be provided.
(2) Individual drinking cups must be provided.
(3) A cold water tap shall be available within a reasonable distance of each individual living unit when water is not provided in the unit.
(4) Adequate drainage facilities shall be provided for overflow and spillage.
(e)
Excreta and liquid waste disposal.
(1) Toilet facilities, such as portable toilets, recreational vehicle (RV) or trailer toilets, privies, or flush toilets, must be provided and maintained for effective disposal of excreta and liquid waste in accordance with the requirements of the applicable local, State, or Federal health authority, whichever is most stringent.
(2) Where mobile housing units contain RV or trailer toilets, such facilities must be connected to sewage hookups whenever feasible (
i.e.,
in campgrounds or RV parks).
(3) If wastewater tanks are used, the employer must make provisions to regularly empty the wastewater tanks.
(4) If pits are used for disposal by burying of excreta and liquid waste, they shall be kept fly-tight when not filled in completely after each use. The maintenance of disposal pits must be in accordance with local and State health and sanitation requirements.
(f)
Housing structure.
(1) Housing must be structurally sound, in good repair, in a sanitary condition, and must provide shelter against the elements to occupants.
(2) Housing must have flooring constructed of rigid materials easy to clean and so located as to prevent ground and surface water from entering.
(3) Each housing unit must have at least one window or a skylight that can be opened directly to the outdoors.
(g)
Heating.
(1) Where the climate in which the housing will be used is such that the safety and health of a worker requires heated living quarters, all such quarters must have properly installed operable heating equipment that supplies adequate heat. Where the climate in which the housing will be used is mild and the low temperature for any day in which the housing will be used is not reasonably expected to drop below 50 degrees Fahrenheit, no separate heating equipment is required as long as proper protective clothing and bedding are made available, free of charge or deposit charge, to the workers.
(2) Any stoves or other sources of heat using combustible fuel must be installed and vented in such a manner as to prevent fire hazards and a dangerous concentration of gases. If a solid or liquid fuel stove is used in a room with wooden or other combustible flooring, there must be a concrete slab, insulated metal sheet, or other fireproof material on the floor under each stove, extending at least 18 inches beyond the perimeter of the base of the stove.
(3) Any wall or ceiling within 18 inches of a solid or liquid fuel stove or stove pipe must be made of fireproof material. A vented metal collar must be installed around a stovepipe or vent passing through a wall, ceiling, floor, or roof.
(4) When a heating system has automatic controls, the controls must be of the type that cuts off the fuel supply when the flame fails or is interrupted or whenever a predetermined safe temperature or pressure is exceeded.
(h)
Electricity and lighting.
(1) Barring unusual circumstances that prevent access, electrical service or generators must be provided.
(2) In areas where it is not feasible to provide electrical service to mobile housing units, lanterns must be provided (e.g., battery operated lights).
(3) Lanterns, where used, must be provided in a minimum ratio of one per occupant of each unit.
(i)
Bathing, laundry, and hand washing.
(1) Bathing facilities, supplied with hot and cold water under pressure, shall be provided to all occupants no less frequently than once per day.
(2) Laundry facilities, supplied with hot and cold water under pressure,
shall be provided to all occupants no less frequently than once per week.
(3) Alternative bathing and laundry facilities must be available to occupants at all times when water under pressure is unavailable.
(4) Hand washing facilities must be available to all occupants at all times.
(j)
Food storage.
(1) Provisions for mechanical refrigeration of food at a temperature of not more than 45 degrees Fahrenheit must be provided.
(2) When mechanical refrigeration of food is not feasible, the employer must provide another means of keeping food fresh and preventing spoilage (e.g., a butane or propane gas refrigerator).
(k)
Cooking and eating facilities.
(1) When workers or their families are permitted or required to cook in their individual unit, a space must be provided with adequate lighting and ventilation, and stoves or hotplates.
(2) Wall surfaces next to all food preparation and cooking areas must be of nonabsorbent, easy to clean material. Wall surfaces next to cooking areas must be made of fire-resistant material.
(l)
Garbage and other refuse.
(1) Durable, fly-tight, clean containers must be provided to each housing unit, for storing garbage and other refuse.
(2) Provision must be made for collecting refuse, which includes garbage, at least twice a week or more often if necessary for proper disposal in accordance with applicable local, State, or Federal law, whichever is most stringent.
(m)
Insect and rodent control.
Appropriate materials, including sprays, and sealed containers for storing food, must be provided to aid housing occupants in combating insects, rodents, and other vermin.
(n)
Sleeping facilities.
(1) A separate comfortable and clean bed, cot, or bunk, with a clean mattress, must be provided for each person, except in a family arrangement.
(2) Clean and sanitary bedding must be provided for each person.
(3) No more than two deck bunks are permissible.
(o)
Fire, safety, and first aid.
(1) All units in which people sleep or eat must be constructed and maintained according to applicable local or State fire and safety law.
(2) No flammable or volatile liquid or materials may be stored in or next to rooms used for living purposes, except for those needed for current household use.
(3) Mobile housing units must have a second means of escape through which the worker can exit the unit without difficulty.
(4) Adequate, accessible fire extinguishers in good working condition and first aid kits must be provided in the mobile housing.
(p)
Maximum occupancy.
The number of occupants housed in each mobile housing unit must not surpass the occupancy limitations set forth in the manufacturer specifications for the unit.
Subparts C-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Labor Certification Process for Temporary Employment in the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands (CW-1 Workers)

# Source:
84 FR 12431, Apr. 1, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 655.400
Scope and purpose of this subpart.
(a)
Purpose.
(1) A temporary labor certification (TLC) issued under this subpart reflects a determination by the Secretary of Labor (Secretary), pursuant to 48 U.S.C. 1806(d)(2)(A), that:
(i) There are not sufficient U.S. workers in the Commonwealth who are able, willing, and qualified and who will be available at the time and place needed to perform the services or labor for which an employer desires to hire foreign workers; and
(ii) The employment of the CNMI-Only Transitional Worker visa program (CW-1) nonimmigrant worker(s) will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of U.S. workers similarly employed.
(2) This subpart describes the process by which the Department of Labor (Department or DOL) makes such a determination and certifies its determination to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
(b)
Scope.
This subpart sets forth the procedures governing the labor certification process for the employment of foreign workers in the CW-1 nonimmigrant classification, as defined in 48 U.S.C. 1806(d). It also establishes standards and obligations with respect to the terms and conditions of the temporary labor certification (TLC) with which CW-1 employers must comply, as well as the rights and obligations of CW-1 workers and workers in corresponding employment. Additionally, this subpart sets forth integrity measures for ensuring employers' continued compliance with the terms and conditions of the TLC.
§ 655.401
Authority of the agencies, offices, and divisions in the Department of Labor.
The Secretary has delegated authority to the Assistant Secretary for the Employment and Training Administration (ETA), who in turn has delegated that authority to the Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC), to issue certifications and carry out other statutory responsibilities as required by 48 U.S.C. 1806. Determinations on a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
are made by the OFLC Administrator who, in turn, may delegate this responsibility to designated staff members, e.g., a Certifying Officer (CO).
§ 655.402
Definition of terms.
For purposes of this subpart:
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
means a person within the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Agent
means a person or a legal entity, such as an association or other organization of employers, or an attorney for an association or other organization of employers, that:
(1) Is authorized to act on behalf of the employer for Temporary Labor Certification (TLC) purposes;
(2) Is not itself an employer, or a joint employer, as defined in this subpart with respect to the specific application; and
(3) Is not under suspension, debarment, expulsion, disbarment, or otherwise restricted from practice before any court, the Department, the Executive Office for Immigration Review or DHS under 8 CFR 292.3 or 1003.101.
Applicant (or U.S. applicant)
means a U.S. worker who is applying for a job opportunity for which an employer has filed a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
means the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)-approved Form ETA-9141C (or successor form) and the appropriate appendices, submitted by an employer to secure a prevailing wage determination (PWD) from the National Prevailing Wage Center (NPWC).
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
means the OMB-approved Form ETA-9142C (or successor form) and the appropriate appendices, a valid wage determination, as required by § 655.410, and all supporting documentation submitted by an employer to secure a TLC determination from the OFLC Administrator.
Attorney
means any person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State, possession, territory, or commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia. Such a person is also permitted to act as an agent under this subpart. No attorney who is under suspension, debarment, expulsion, or disbarment from practice before any court, the Department, the Executive Office for Immigration Review, or DHS under 8 CFR 1003.101 or 292.3, may represent an employer under this subpart.
Board of Alien Labor Certification Appeals (BALCA or Board)
means the permanent Board established by part 656 of this chapter, chaired by the Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ), and consisting of ALJs appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 and designated by the Chief ALJ to be members of BALCA.
Certifying Officer or CO
means the person who makes determination on a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
filed under the CW-1
program. The OFLC Administrator is the national CO. Other COs may also be designated by the OFLC Administrator to make the determinations required under this subpart, including making PWDs.
Chief Administrative Law Judge or Chief ALJ
means the chief official of the Department's Office of Administrative Law Judges or the Chief ALJ's designee.
CNMI Department of Labor
means the executive Department of the Commonwealth Government that administers employment and job training activities for employers and U.S. workers in the Commonwealth.
Commonwealth or CNMI
means the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Corresponding employment
means the employment of U.S. workers who are not CW-1 workers by an employer who has an approved
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in any work included in the approved job offer, or in any work performed by the CW-1 workers. To qualify as corresponding employment the work must be performed during the validity period of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and approved job offer, including any approved extension thereof.
CW-1 Petition
means the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Form I-129CW,
Petition for a CNMI-Only Nonimmigrant Transitional Worker,
a successor form, other form, or electronic equivalent, any supplemental information requested by USCIS, and additional evidence as may be prescribed or requested by USCIS.
CW-1 worker
means any foreign worker who is lawfully present in the Commonwealth and authorized by DHS to perform temporary labor or services under 48 U.S.C. 1806(d).
Date of need
means the first date the employer requires services of the CW-1 workers as indicated on the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Department of Homeland Security or DHS
means the Federal Department having jurisdiction over certain immigration-related functions, acting through its component agencies, including USCIS.
Employee
means a person who is engaged to perform work for an employer, as defined under the general common law of agency. Some of the factors relevant to the determination of employee status include: The hiring party's right to control the manner and means by which the work is accomplished; the skill required to perform the work; the source of the instrumentalities and tools for accomplishing the work; the location of the work; the hiring party's discretion over when and how long to work; and whether the work is part of the regular business of the hiring party. Other applicable factors may be considered and no one factor is dispositive. The terms employee and worker are used interchangeably in this subpart.
Employer
means a person (including any individual, partnership, association, corporation, cooperative, firm, joint stock company, trust, or other organization with legal rights and duties) that:
(1) Has a place of business (physical location) in the Commonwealth and a means by which it may be contacted for employment;
(2) Has an employer relationship (such as the ability to hire, pay, fire, supervise or otherwise control the work of employees) with respect to a CW-1 worker or a worker in corresponding employment, as defined under the common law of agency; and
(3) Possesses, for purposes of filing a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
a valid Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN).
Employer-client
means an employer that has entered into an agreement with a job contractor and that is not an affiliate, branch, or subsidiary of the job contractor, under which the job contractor provides services or labor to the employer-client on a temporary basis and will not exercise substantial, direct day-to-day supervision and control in the performance of the services or labor to be performed other than hiring, paying, and firing the workers.
Employment and Training Administration or ETA
means the agency within the Department that includes OFLC and has been delegated authority by the Secretary to fulfill the Secretary's mandate under for the administration
and adjudication of a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and related functions.
Federal holiday
means a legal public holiday as defined at 5 U.S.C. 6103.
Full-time
means 35 or more hours of work per week.
Governor
means the Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Job contractor
means a person, association, firm, or a corporation that meets the definition of an employer and that contracts services or labor on a temporary basis to one or more employers that are not an affiliate, branch, or subsidiary of the job contractor and where the job contractor will not exercise substantial, direct day-to-day supervision and control in the performance of the services or labor to be performed other than hiring, paying, and releasing the workers.
Job offer
means the offer made by an employer or potential employer of CW-1 workers to both U.S. and CW-1 workers describing all the material terms and conditions of employment, including those relating to wages, working conditions, and other benefits.
Job opportunity
means full-time employment at a place in the Commonwealth to which U.S. workers can be referred.
Joint employment
means that where two or more employers each have sufficient definitional indicia of being a joint employer of a worker under the common law of agency, they are, at all times, joint employers of that worker.
Layoff
means any involuntary separation of one or more U.S. employees other than for cause.
Long-term worker
means an alien who was admitted to the CNMI as a CW-1 nonimmigrant during fiscal year (FY) 2015, and who was granted CW-1 nonimmigrant status during each of FYs 2016 through 2018, as defined by DHS.
National Prevailing Wage Center or NPWC
means that office within OFLC from which employers, agents, or attorneys who wish to file a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
receive a PWD.
NPWC Director
means the OFLC official to whom the OFLC Administrator has delegated authority to carry out certain NPWC operations and functions.
National Processing Center (NPC)
means the office within OFLC in which the COs operate, and which are charged with the adjudication of
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.
NPC Director
means the OFLC official to whom the OFLC Administrator has delegated authority for purposes of certain NPC operations and functions.
Occupational employment statistics (OES) survey
means the program under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) that reports annual wage estimates, including those for Guam, based on standard occupational classifications (SOCs).
Offered wage
means the wage offered by an employer in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job offer. The offered wage must equal or exceed the highest of the prevailing wage, or the Federal minimum wage, or the Commonwealth minimum wage.
Office of Foreign Labor Certification or OFLC
means the organizational component of the ETA that provides national leadership and policy guidance and develops regulations to carry out the Secretary's responsibilities, including determinations related to an employer's request for an
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
or
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Place of employment
means the worksite (or physical location) where work under the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and job offer actually is performed by the CW-1 workers and workers in corresponding employment.
Prevailing wage (PW)
means the official wage issued by the NPWC on the Form ETA 9141C,
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination for the CW-1 Program,
or successor form. At least that amount must be paid to all CW-1 workers and U.S. workers in corresponding employment.
Prevailing wage determination (PWD)
means the prevailing wage issued by the OFLC NPWC on the Form ETA-9141C,
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination for the CW-1 Program,
or successor form. The PWD is used in
support of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Secretary of Labor or Secretary
means the chief official of the U.S. DOL, or the Secretary's designee.
Secretary of Homeland Security
means the chief official of DHS or the Secretary of Homeland Security's designee.
Secretary of State
means the chief official of the U.S. Department of State or the Secretary of State's designee.
Strike means a
concerted stoppage of work by employees as a result of a labor dispute, or any concerted slowdown or other concerted interruption of operation (including stoppage by reason of the expiration of a collective bargaining agreement).
Successor in interest
means an employer, agent, or attorney that is controlling and carrying on the business of a previous employer.
(1) Where an employer, agent, or attorney has violated 48 U.S.C. 1806 or the regulations in this subpart and has ceased doing business or cannot be located for purposes of enforcement, a successor in interest to that employer, agent, or attorney may be held liable for the duties and obligations of the violating employer in certain circumstances. The following factors, as used under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act, may be considered in determining whether an employer, agent, or attorney is a successor in interest; no one factor is dispositive, and all the circumstances will be considered as a whole:
(i) Substantial continuity of the same business operations;
(ii) Use of the same facilities;
(iii) Continuity of the work force;
(iv) Similarity of jobs and working conditions;
(v) Similarity of supervisory personnel;
(vi) Whether the former management or owner retains a direct or indirect interest in the new enterprise;
(vii) Similarity in machinery, equipment, and production methods;
(viii) Similarity of products and services; and
(ix) The ability of the predecessor to provide relief.
(2) For purposes of debarment only, the primary consideration will be the personal involvement of the firm's ownership, management, supervisors, and others associated with the firm in the violation(s) at issue.
Temporary labor certification or TLC
means the certification made by the OFLC Administrator, based on the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
job offer, and all supporting documentation, with respect to an employer seeking to file with DHS a visa petition to employ one or more foreign nationals as a CW-1 worker.
United States
means the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth.
United States worker (U.S. worker)
means a worker who is:
(1) A citizen or national of the United States;
(2) An alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence; or
(3) A citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau, who is eligible for nonimmigrant admission and is employment-authorized under the Compacts of Free Association between the United States and those nations.
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services or USCIS
means the Federal agency within DHS that makes the determination whether to grant petitions filed by employers seeking CW-1 workers to perform temporary work in the Commonwealth.
Wages
mean all forms of cash remuneration to a worker by an employer in payment for labor or services.
Work contract
means the document containing all the material terms and conditions of employment relating to wages, hours, working conditions, places of employment, and other benefits, including all assurances and obligations required to be included under this subpart. The contract between the employer and the worker may be in the form of a separate written document containing the advertised terms and conditions of the job offer. In the absence of a separate, written work contract incorporating the required terms and conditions of employment, agreed
to by both the employer and the worker, the required terms of the certified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will be the work contract.
§ 655.403
Persons and entities authorized to file.
(a)
Persons authorized to file.
In addition to the employer, a request for a PWD or TLC under this subpart may be filed by an attorney or agent, as defined in § 655.402.
(b)
Employer's signature required.
Regardless of whether the employer is represented by an attorney or agent, the employer is required to sign the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and all documentation submitted to the Department.
§ 655.404
Requirements for agents.
An agent filing a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of an employer must provide a copy of the agent agreement or other document demonstrating the agent's authority to represent the employer to the NPC at the time of filing the application.
§§ 655.405-655.409
[Reserved]

# Prefiling Procedures
§ 655.410
Offered wage rate and determination of prevailing wage.
(a)
Offered wage.
(1) The employer must advertise the position to all potential workers at a wage that is at least the highest of the following:
(i) The prevailing wage for the job opportunity obtained from the NPWC;
(ii) The Federal minimum wage; or
(iii) The Commonwealth minimum wage.
(2) The employer must offer and pay at least the wage provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to both its CW-1 workers and its workers in corresponding employment. The issuance of a PWD under this section does not permit an employer to pay a wage lower than the highest wage required by any applicable Federal or Commonwealth law.
(b)
Determinations
—(1)
Methods.
The OFLC Administrator will determine prevailing wages in the Commonwealth and occupational classification as follows:
(i) If the mean hourly wage for the occupational classification in the Commonwealth is reported by the Governor, annually, and meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, as determined by the OFLC Administrator, that wage must be the prevailing wage for the occupational classification;
(ii) If the OFLC Administrator has not approved a survey, as reported by the Governor, for the occupational classification under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, and the BLS OES survey reports a mean wage paid to workers in the SOC in Guam, the prevailing wage must be the mean wage paid to workers in the SOC in Guam from the BLS OES survey; and
(iii) If the OFLC Administrator has not approved a survey, as reported by the Governor, for the occupational classification under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section and the BLS OES survey does not report the mean wage paid to workers in the SOC in Guam under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the prevailing wage must be the mean wage paid to workers in the SOC in the United States from the BLS OES Survey, adjusted based on the ratio of the mean wage paid to workers in all SOCs in Guam compared to the mean wage paid to workers in all SOCs in the United States from the BLS OES survey.
(2)
Multiple occupations.
If the job duties on the
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
do not fall within a single occupational classification, the NPC will determine the applicable prevailing wage based on the highest prevailing wage for all applicable occupational classifications.
(c)
Request for PWD
—(1)
Filing requirement.
An employer must electronically request and receive a PWD from the NPWC then electronically file the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with the NPC.
(2)
Location and methods of filing
—(i)
Electronic filing.
The employer must file the
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
and all required supporting documentation with the NPWC using the electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. The NPWC
will return without review any application submitted using a method other than the designated electronic method(s), unless the employer submits with the application a statement of the need to file by mail.
(ii)
Filing by mail.
Employers that are unable to file electronically, either due to lack of internet access or physical disability precluding electronic filing, may file the application by mail. The mailed application must include a statement indicating the need to file by mail. The NPWC will return, without review, mailed applications that do not contain such a statement. OFLC will publish the address for mailed applications in the instructions to Form ETA-9141C.
(d)
NPWC action.
The NPWC will provide the PWD, indicate the source of the PWD, and return the
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
with its endorsement to the employer.
(e)
Wage survey reported by the Governor.
The OFLC Administrator will issue a prevailing wage for the occupational classification in the Commonwealth based on a wage survey reported by the Governor if all of the following requirements are met:
(1) The survey was independently conducted and issued by the Governor of the Commonwealth, including through any Commonwealth agency, Commonwealth college, or Commonwealth university;
(2) The survey provides the arithmetic mean of the wages of workers in the occupational classification in the Commonwealth;
(3) The surveyor either made a reasonable, good faith attempt to contact all employers in the Commonwealth employing workers in the occupation or conducted a randomized sampling of such employers;
(4) The survey includes the wages of at least 30 workers in the Commonwealth;
(5) The survey includes the wages of workers in the Commonwealth employed by at least three employers;
(6) The survey was conducted across industries that employ workers in the occupational classification;
(7) The wage reported in the survey includes all types of pay;
(8) The survey is based on wages paid to workers in the occupational classification not more than 12 months before the date the survey is submitted to the OFLC Administrator for consideration; and
(9) The Governor submits the survey to the OFLC Administrator, with specific information about the survey methodology, including such items as sample size and source, sample selection procedures, and survey job descriptions, to allow a determination of the adequacy of the data provided and validity of the statistical methodology used in conducting the survey.
(f)
Review of wage survey reported by the Governor.
(1) If the OFLC Administrator finds the wage reported for any occupational classification not to be acceptable, the OFLC Administrator must inform the Governor in writing of the reasons the wage reported in the survey was not accepted.
(2) The Governor, after receiving notification from the OFLC Administrator that the wage reported in the survey it provided for consideration is not acceptable, may submit corrected wage data or conduct a new wage survey and submit revised wage data to the OFLC Administrator for consideration under this section.
(g)
Validity period.
The NPWC will specify the validity period of the prevailing wage, which in no event may be more than 365 days or fewer than 90 days from the date that the determination is issued.
(h)
Retention of documentation.
The employer must retain the PWD for 3 years from the date of issuance if not used in support of a TLC application or if it is used in support of a TLC application that is denied, and 3 years from the date on which the certification of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
expires, whichever is later. The employer must submit the PWD to a CO if requested by a Notice of Deficiency (NOD), described in § 655.431, or audit, as described in § 655.470, or to any Federal Government Official performing an investigation, inspection, audit, or law enforcement function.
§ 655.411
Review of prevailing wage determinations.
(a)
Request for review of PWDs.
Any employer desiring review of a PWD must make a written request for such review to the NPWC Director. The written request must be received by the NPWC Director within 7 business days from the date the PWD was issued. The request for review must clearly identify the PWD for which review is sought; set forth the particular grounds for the request; and include any materials submitted to the NPWC for purposes of securing the PWD.
(b)
NPWC review.
Upon the receipt of the written request for review, the NPWC Director will review the employer's request and accompanying documentation, including any supplementary material submitted by the employer, and after review must issue a Final Determination letter; that letter may:
(1) Affirm the PWD issued by the NPWC; or
(2) Modify the PWD.
(c)
Request for review by BALCA.
Any employer desiring review of the NPWC Director's decision on a PWD must make a written request to BALCA for review of the determination, with a copy simultaneously sent to the NPWC Director who issued the final determination. The written request must be received by BALCA within 10 business days from the date the Final Determination letter was issued.
(1) Upon receipt of a request for BALCA review, the NPWC will prepare an Appeal File and submit it to BALCA.
(2) The request for review, statements, briefs, and other submissions of the parties must contain only legal arguments and may refer to only the evidence that was within the record upon which the decision on the PWD by the NPWC Director was based.
(3) BALCA will handle appeals in accordance with § 655.461.
§§ 655.412-655.419
[Reserved]

# CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification Filing Procedures
§ 655.420
Application filing requirements.
An employer seeking to hire CW-1 workers must electronically file a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with the NPC designated by the OFLC Administrator. This section provides the procedures an employer must follow when filing.
(a)
What to file.
An employer seeking a TLC must file a completed
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
(Form ETA-9142C and the appropriate appendices and valid PWD), and all supporting documentation and information required at the time of filing under this subpart. Applications that are incomplete at the time of submission will be returned to the employer without review.
(b)
Timeliness.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a completed
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must be filed no more than 120 calendar days before the employer's date of need.
(2) If the employer is seeking a TLC to extend the employment of a CW-1 worker, a completed
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must be filed no more than 180 calendar days before the date on which the CW-1 status expires.
(c)
Location and methods of filing
—(1)
Electronic filing.
The employer must file the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and all required supporting documentation with the NPC using the electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. The NPC will return, without review, any application submitted using a method other than the designated electronic method(s), unless the employer submits with the application a statement of the need to file by mail or indicates that it already submitted such a statement to NPWC during the same fiscal year.
(2)
Filing by mail.
Employers that are unable to file electronically, either due to lack of internet access or physical disability precluding electronic filing,
may file the application by mail. The mailed application must include a statement indicating the need to file by mail as indicated above. The NPC will return, without review, mailed applications that do not contain such a statement. OFLC will publish the address for mailed applications in the instructions to Form ETA-9142C.
(d)
Original signature and acceptance of electronic signatures.
An electronically filed
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must contain an electronic (scanned) copy of the original signature of the employer (and that of the employer's authorized attorney or agent, if the employer is represented by an attorney or agent) or, in the alternative, use a verifiable electronic signature method, as directed by the OFLC Administrator. If submitted by mail, the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must bear the original signature of the employer and, if applicable, the employer's authorized attorney or agent.
(e)
Requests for multiple positions.
An employer may request certification of more than one position on its
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
as long as all CW-1 workers will perform the same services or labor under the same terms and conditions, in the same occupation, during the same period of employment, and at a location (or locations) covered by the application.
(f)
Scope of application.
(1) A
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must be limited to places of employment within the Commonwealth.
(2) In a single application filing, an association or other organization of employers is not permitted to file a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of more than one employer-member under the CW-1 program.
(g)
Period of employment.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the period of need identified in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must not exceed 1 year.
(2) If the employer is seeking TLC to employ a long-term CW-1 worker, the period of need identified in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must not exceed 3 years.
(h)
Return of applications based on USCIS CW-1 cap notice.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, if USCIS issues a public notice stating that it has received a sufficient number of CW-1 petitions to meet the statutory numerical limit on the total number of foreign nationals who may be issued a CW-1 permit or otherwise granted CW-1 status for the fiscal year, the OFLC Administrator must return without review any
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
with dates of need in that fiscal year received on or after the date that the OFLC Administrator provides the notice in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2) The OFLC Administrator will announce the return of future
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
with dates of need in the fiscal year for which the cap is met with a notice on the OFLC's website. This notice will be effective on the date of its publication on the OFLC's website and will remain valid for the fiscal year unless:
(i) USCIS issues a public notice stating additional CW-1 permits are available for the fiscal year; and
(ii) The OFLC Administrator publishes a new notice announcing that additional TLCs may be granted in the fiscal year.
(3) After the notice that OFLC will return future
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification,
the OFLC Administrator will continue to process
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
filed before the effective date of the suspension notice and will continue to permit the filing of
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
by employers who identify in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
that the employment of all CW-1 workers employed under the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will be exempt from the statutory numerical limit on the total number of foreign nationals who may be issued a CW-1 permit or otherwise granted CW-1 status.
§ 655.421
Job contractor filing requirements.
(a) A job contractor may submit a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
on behalf of itself and that employer-client. By doing so, the Department deems the job contractor a joint employer.
(b) A job contractor must have separate contracts with each different employer-client. A single contract or agreement may support only one
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for each employer-client job opportunity in the Commonwealth.
(c) Either the job contractor or its employer-client may submit an
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
describing the job opportunity to the NPWC. However, each of the joint employers is separately responsible for ensuring that the wage offer(s) listed in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and related recruitment at least equals the prevailing wage obtained from the NPWC, or the Federal or Commonwealth minimum wage, whichever is highest, and that all other wage obligations are met.
(d)(1) A job contractor that is filing as a joint employer with its employer-client must submit to the NPC a completed
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
that clearly identifies the joint employers (the job contractor and its employer-client) and the employment relationship (including the places of employment), in accordance with instructions provided by the OFLC Administrator. The
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must bear the original signature of the job contractor and the employer-client or use a verifiable electronic signature method, consistent with the requirements set forth at § 655.420(d), and be accompanied by the contract or agreement establishing the employers' relationships related to the workers sought.
(2) By signing the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
each employer independently attests to the conditions of employment required of an employer participating in the CW-1 program and assumes full responsibility for the accuracy of the representations made in the application and for all of the responsibilities of an employer in the CW-1 program.
(e)(1) Either the job contractor or its employer-client may place the required advertisements and conduct recruitment as described in §§ 655.442 through 655.445. Also, either one of the joint employers may assume responsibility for interviewing applicants. However, both of the joint employers must sign the recruitment report that is submitted to the NPC meeting the requirement set forth in § 655.446.
(2) All recruitment conducted by the joint employers must satisfy the job offer assurance and advertising content requirements identified in § 655.441. Additionally, in order to fully inform applicants of the job opportunity and avoid potential confusion inherent in a job opportunity involving two employers, joint employer recruitment must clearly identify both employers (the job contractor and its employer-client) by name and must clearly identify the place(s) of employment where workers will perform labor or services.
(3)(i) Provided that all of the employer-clients' job opportunities are in the same occupation located in the Commonwealth and have the same requirements and terms and conditions of employment, including dates of employment, a job contractor may combine more than one of its joint employer employer-clients' job opportunities in a single advertisement. Each advertisement must fully inform potential workers of the job opportunity available with each employer-client and otherwise satisfy the job offer assurances and advertising content requirements identified in § 655.441. Such a shared advertisement must clearly identify the job contractor by name, the joint employment relationship, and the number of workers sought for each job opportunity, identified by employer-client names and locations (e.g., five openings with Employer-Client A (place of employment location), three openings with Employer-Client B (place of employment location)).
(ii) In addition, the advertisement must contain the following statement: “Applicants may apply for any or all of the jobs listed. When applying, please identify the job(s) (by company and work location) you are applying to for
the entire period of employment specified.” If an applicant fails to identify one or more specific work location(s), that applicant is presumed to have applied to all work locations listed in the advertisement.
(f) If a TLC for the joint employers is granted, the Final Determination certifying the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will be sent to both the job contractor and employer-client.
§ 655.422
Emergency situations.
(a)
Waiver of PWD requirement prior to application filing.
The CO may waive the requirement to obtain a PWD, as required under § 655.410(c), prior to filing a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for employers that have good and substantial cause, provided that the CO has sufficient time to thoroughly test the labor market and to make a final determination as required by § 655.450. The requirement to obtain a PWD prior to filing the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
under § 655.410(c), is the only provision of this subpart which will be waived under these emergency situation procedures.
(b)
Employer requirements.
The employer requesting a waiver of the requirement to obtain a PWD must submit to the NPC a completed
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination,
a completed
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
and a statement justifying the waiver request. The employer's waiver request must include detailed information describing the good and substantial cause that has necessitated the waiver request. Good and substantial cause may include, but is not limited to, the substantial loss of U.S. workers due to an Act of God, or similar unforeseeable man-made catastrophic events (such as a hazardous materials emergency or government-controlled flooding), unforeseeable changes in market conditions, pandemic health issues, or similar conditions that are wholly outside of the employer's control. Issues related to the CW-1 visa cap are not good and substantial cause for a waiver of the filing requirements. Further, a denial of a previously submitted
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or CW-1 petition with USCIS does not constitute good and substantial cause necessitating a waiver under this section.
(c)
Processing of emergency applications.
The CO will process the emergency
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
including the
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination for the CW-1 Program,
in a manner consistent with the provisions of this subpart and make a determination in accordance with § 655.450. The CO will notify the employer, if the application cannot be processed because, pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the request for emergency filing was not justified and/or the filing does not meet the requirements set forth in this subpart.
§ 655.423
Assurances and obligations of CW-1 employers.
An employer employing CW-1 workers and/or workers in corresponding employment under a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
has agreed as part of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
that it will abide by the following conditions with respect to its CW-1 workers and any workers in corresponding employment:
(a)
Rate of pay.
(1) The offered wage in the work contract equals or exceeds the highest of the prevailing wage, Federal minimum wage, or Commonwealth minimum wage. The employer must pay at least the offered wage, free and clear, during the entire period of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
granted by OFLC.
(2) The offered wage is not based on commissions, bonuses, or other incentives, including paying on a piece-rate basis, unless the employer guarantees a wage earned every workweek that equals or exceeds the offered wage.
(3) If the employer requires one or more minimum productivity standards of workers as a condition of job retention, the standards must be specified in the work contract and the employer must demonstrate that they are normal and usual for non-CW-1 employers for the same occupation in the Commonwealth.
(4) An employer that pays on a piece-rate basis must demonstrate that the
piece-rate is no less than the normal rate paid by non-CW-1 employers to workers performing the same activity in the Commonwealth. The average hourly piece-rate earnings must result in an amount at least equal to the offered wage. If the worker is paid on a piece-rate basis and at the end of the workweek the piece-rate does not result in average hourly piece-rate earnings during the workweek at least equal to the amount the worker would have earned had the worker been paid at the offered hourly wage, then the employer must supplement the worker's pay at that time so that the worker's earnings are at least as much as the worker would have earned during the workweek if the worker had instead been paid at the offered hourly wage for each hour worked.
(b)
Wages free and clear.
The payment requirements for wages in this section will be satisfied by the timely payment of such wages to the worker either in cash or in negotiable instrument payable at par. The payment must be made finally and unconditionally and “free and clear.” The principles applied in determining whether deductions are reasonable and payments are received free and clear, and the permissibility of deductions for payments to third persons are explained in more detail in 29 CFR part 531.
(c)
Deductions.
The employer must make all deductions from the worker's paycheck required by law. The work contract must specify all deductions not required by law that the employer will make from the worker's pay; any such deductions not disclosed in the work contract are prohibited. The wage payment requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are not met where unauthorized deductions, rebates, or refunds reduce the wage payment made to the worker below the minimum amounts required by the offered wage or where the worker fails to receive such amounts free and clear because the worker “kick backs” directly or indirectly to the employer or to another person for the employer's benefit the whole or part of the wages delivered to the worker. Authorized deductions are limited to: Those required by law, such as taxes payable by workers that are required to be withheld by the employer and amounts due workers which the employer is required by court order to pay to another; deductions for the reasonable cost or fair value of board, lodging, and facilities furnished; and deductions of amounts which are authorized to be paid to third persons for the worker's account and benefit through his or her voluntary assignment or order or which are authorized by a collective bargaining agreement with bona fide representatives of workers which covers the employer. Deductions for amounts paid to third persons for the worker's account and benefit which are not so authorized or are contrary to law or from which the employer, agent, or recruiter, including any agents or employees of these entities or any affiliated person, derives any payment, rebate, commission, profit, or benefit directly or indirectly, may not be made if they reduce the actual wage paid to the worker below the offered wage indicated on the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(d)
Job opportunity is full time.
The job opportunity is a full-time position, consistent with § 655.402, and the employer must use a single workweek as its standard for computing wages due. An employee's workweek must be a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours—7 consecutive 24-hour periods. It need not coincide with the calendar week but may begin on any day and at any hour of the day.
(e)
Job qualifications and requirements.
Each job qualification and requirement must be listed in the work contract and must be bona fide and consistent with the normal and accepted qualifications and requirements imposed by non-CW-1 employers in the same occupation and in the Commonwealth. The employer's job qualifications and requirements imposed on U.S. workers must not be less favorable than the qualifications and requirements that the employer is imposing or will impose on CW-1 workers. A qualification means a characteristic that is necessary to the individual's ability to perform the job in question. A requirement means a term or condition of employment that a worker is required to
accept in order to obtain the job opportunity. The CO may require the employer to submit documentation to substantiate the appropriateness of any job qualification and/or requirement.
(f)
Three-fourths guarantee
—(1)
Offer to worker.
The employer must guarantee to offer the worker employment for a total number of work hours equal to at least three-fourths of the workdays of the total period of employment specified in the work contract, beginning with the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment or the advertised contractual first date of need, whichever is later, and ending on the expiration date specified in the work contract or in its extensions, if any. See the exception in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section.
(i) For purposes of this paragraph (f), a workday means the number of hours in a workday as stated in the work contract. The employer must offer a total number of hours to ensure the provision of sufficient work to reach the three-fourths guarantee. The work hours must be offered during the work period specified in the work contract, or during any modified work contract period to which the worker and employer have mutually agreed and that has been approved by the CO.
(ii) In the event the worker begins working later than the start date of need specified in the application, the guarantee period begins with the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment and continues until the last day during which the work contract and all extensions thereof are in effect.
(iii) Therefore, if, for example, a work contract is for a 10-week period, during which a normal workweek is specified as 6 days a week, 8 hours per day, the worker would have to be guaranteed employment for at least 360 hours (10 weeks × 48 hours/week = 480 hours × 75 percent = 360). If a Federal holiday occurred during the 10-week period, the 8 hours would be deducted from the total hours for the work contract, before the guarantee is calculated. Continuing with the above example, the worker would have to be guaranteed employment for 354 hours (10 weeks × 48 hours/week = 480 hours−8 hours (Federal holiday) = 472 hours × 75 percent = 354 hours).
(iv) A worker may be offered more than the specified hours of work on a single workday. For purposes of meeting the guarantee, the worker will not be required to work more than the number of hours specified in the work contract for a workday but all hours of work actually performed may be counted by the employer in calculating whether the period of guaranteed employment has been met. If during the total work contract period the employer affords the U.S. or CW-1 worker less employment than that required under this paragraph (f)(1)(iv), the employer must pay such worker the amount the worker would have earned had the worker, in fact, worked for the guaranteed number of days. An employer will not be considered to have met the work guarantee if the employer has merely offered work on three-fourths of the workdays of the work contract period if each workday did not consist of a full number of hours of work time as specified in the work contract.
(2)
Guarantee for piece-rate paid worker.
If the worker is paid on a piece-rate basis, the employer must use the worker's average hourly piece-rate earnings or the offered wage, whichever is higher, to calculate the amount due under the guarantee in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(3)
Failure to work.
Any hours the worker fails to work, up to a maximum of the number of hours specified in the work contract for a workday, when the worker has been offered an opportunity to work in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and all hours of work actually performed (including voluntary work over 8 hours in a workday), may be counted by the employer in calculating whether the period of guaranteed employment has been met. An employer seeking to calculate whether the guaranteed number of hours has been met must maintain the payroll records in accordance with this subpart.
(g)
Impossibility of fulfillment.
If before the expiration date specified in the work contract, the services of the
worker are no longer required for reasons beyond the control of the employer due to fire, weather, or other Act of God, or similar unforeseeable man-made catastrophic event (such as an oil spill or controlled flooding) that is wholly outside the employer's control that makes the fulfillment of the work contract impossible, the employer may terminate the work contract with the approval of the CO. In the event of such termination, the employer must fulfill a three-fourths guarantee, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, for the time that has elapsed from the start date listed in the work contract or the first workday after the arrival of the worker at the place of employment, whichever is later, to the time of its termination. The employer must make efforts to transfer the CW-1 worker or worker in corresponding employment to other comparable employment acceptable to the worker and consistent with immigration laws, as applicable. If a transfer is not affected, the employer must return the worker, at the employer's expense, to the place from which the worker (disregarding intervening employment) came to work for the employer, or transport the worker to the worker's next certified CW-1 employer, whichever the worker prefers.
(h)
Frequency of pay.
The employer must state in the work contract the frequency with which the worker will be paid, which must be at least every 2 weeks. Employers must pay wages when due.
(i)
Earnings statements.
(1) The employer must keep accurate and adequate records with respect to the workers' earnings, including but not limited to: Records showing the nature, amount, and location(s) of the work performed; the number of hours of work offered each day by the employer (broken out by hours offered both in accordance with and over and above the three-fourths guarantee in paragraph (f) of this section); the hours actually worked each day by the worker; if the number of hours worked by the worker is less than the number of hours offered, the reason(s) the worker did not work; the time the worker began and ended each workday; the rate of pay (both piece-rate and hourly, if applicable); the worker's earnings per pay period; the worker's home address; and the amount of and reasons for any and all deductions taken from or additions made to the worker's wages.
(2) The employer must furnish to the worker on or before each payday in one or more written statements the following information:
(i) The worker's total earnings for each workweek in the pay period;
(ii) The worker's hourly rate or piece-rate of pay;
(iii) For each workweek in the pay period the hours of employment offered to the worker (showing offers in accordance with the three-fourths guarantee as determined in paragraph (f) of this section, separate from any hours offered over and above the guarantee);
(iv) For each workweek in the pay period the hours actually worked by the worker;
(v) An itemization of all deductions made from or additions made to the worker's wages;
(vi) If piece-rates are used, the units produced daily;
(vii) The beginning and ending dates of the pay period; and
(viii) The employer's name, address, and FEIN.
(j)
Transportation and visa fees
—(1)(i)
Transportation to the place of employment.
The employer must provide or reimburse the worker for transportation and subsistence from the place from which the worker has come to work for the employer, whether in the United States, including another part of the Commonwealth, or abroad, to the place of employment if the worker completes 50 percent of the period of employment covered by the work contract (not counting any extensions). The employer may arrange and pay for the transportation and subsistence directly, advance at a minimum the most economical and reasonable common carrier cost of the transportation and subsistence to the worker before the worker's departure, or pay the worker for the reasonable costs incurred by the worker. When it is the prevailing practice of non-CW-1 employers in the occupation and in the Commonwealth to do so or when the employer extends such benefits to similarly situated CW-
1 workers, the employer must advance the required transportation and subsistence costs (or otherwise provide them) to workers in corresponding employment who are traveling to the employer's place of employment from such a distance that the worker is not reasonably able to return to their residence each day. The amount of the transportation payment must be no less (and is not required to be more) than the most economical and reasonable common carrier transportation charges for the distances involved. The amount of the daily subsistence must be at least the amount permitted in § 655.173. Where the employer will reimburse the reasonable costs incurred by the worker, it must keep accurate and adequate records of: The costs of transportation and subsistence incurred by the worker; the amount reimbursed; and the date(s) of reimbursement. Note that the Fair Labor Standards Act applies independently of the CW-1 requirements and imposes obligations on employers regarding payment of wages.
(ii)
Transportation from the place of employment.
If the worker completes the period of employment covered by the work contract (not counting any extensions), or if the worker is dismissed from employment for any reason by the employer before the end of the period, and the worker has no immediate subsequent CW-1 employment, the employer must provide or pay at the time of departure for the worker's cost of return transportation and daily subsistence from the place of employment to the place from which the worker, disregarding intervening employment, departed to work for the employer. If the worker has contracted with a subsequent employer that has not agreed in the work contract to provide or pay for the worker's transportation from the former employer's place of employment to such subsequent employer's place of employment, the former employer must provide or pay for that transportation and subsistence. If the worker has contracted with a subsequent employer that has agreed in the work contract to provide or pay for the worker's transportation from the former employer's place of employment to such subsequent employer's place of employment, the subsequent employer must provide or pay for such expenses.
(iii)
Employer-provided transportation.
All employer-provided transportation must comply with all applicable Federal and Commonwealth laws and regulations including, but not limited to, vehicle safety standards, driver licensure requirements, and vehicle insurance coverage.
(2) The employer must pay or reimburse the worker in the first workweek for all visa, visa processing, border crossing, and other related fees (including those mandated by the government) incurred by the CW-1 worker, but not for passport expenses or other charges primarily for the benefit of the worker.
(k)
Employer-provided items.
The employer must provide to the worker, without charge or deposit charge, all tools, supplies, and equipment required to perform the duties assigned.
(l)
Disclosure of work contract.
The employer must provide to a CW-1 worker outside of the United States no later than the time at which the worker applies for the visa, or to a worker in corresponding employment no later than on the day work commences, a copy of the work contract including any subsequent approved modifications. For a CW-1 worker changing employment from a CW-1 employer to a subsequent CW-1 employer, the copy must be provided no later than the time an offer of employment is made by the subsequent CW-1 employer. The disclosure of all documents required by this paragraph (l) must be provided in a language understood by the worker. At a minimum, the work contract must contain all of the provisions required to be included by this section. In the absence of a separate, written work contract entered into between the employer and the worker, the required terms of the certified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
will be the work contract.
(m)
No unfair treatment.
The employer has not and will not intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in any manner discriminate against, and has not and will not cause any person to intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in any manner discriminate against,
any person who has, related to the CW-1 program:
(1) Filed a complaint under or related to any applicable Federal or Commonwealth laws and regulations;
(2) Instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related to any applicable Federal or Commonwealth laws and regulations;
(3) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or related to any applicable Federal or Commonwealth laws and regulations;
(4) Consulted with a workers' center, community organization, labor union, legal assistance program, or an attorney on matters related to any applicable Federal or Commonwealth laws and regulations; or
(5) Exercised or asserted on behalf of himself/herself or others any right or protection afforded by any applicable Federal or Commonwealth laws and regulations.
(n)
Comply with the prohibitions against employees paying fees.
The employer and its attorney, agents, or employees have not sought or received payment of any kind from the worker for any activity related to obtaining CW-1 labor certification or employment, including payment of the employer's attorney or agent fees, application and
CW-1 Petition
fees, recruitment costs, or any fees attributed to obtaining the approved
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
For purposes of this paragraph (n), payment includes, but is not limited to, monetary payments, wage concessions (including deductions from wages, salary, or benefits), kickbacks, bribes, tributes, in-kind payments, and free labor. All wages must be paid free and clear. This paragraph (n) does not prohibit employers or their agents from receiving reimbursement for costs that are the responsibility and primarily for the benefit of the worker, such as government-required passport fees.
(o)
Contracts with third parties to comply with prohibitions.
The employer must contractually prohibit in writing any agent or recruiter (or any agent or employee of such agent or recruiter) whom the employer engages, either directly or indirectly, in recruitment of CW-1 workers to seek or receive payments or other compensation from prospective workers. The contract must include the following statement: “Under this agreement, [name of agent, recruiter] and any agent of or employee of [name of agent or recruiter] are prohibited from seeking or receiving payments from any prospective employee of [employer name] at any time, including before or after the worker obtains employment. Payments include but are not limited to, any direct or indirect fees paid by such employees for recruitment, job placement, processing, maintenance, attorneys' fees, agent fees, application fees, or petition fees.”
(p)
Prohibition against preferential treatment of foreign workers.
The employer's job offer must offer to U.S. workers no less than the same benefits, wages, and working conditions that the employer is offering, intends to offer, or will provide to CW-1 workers. Job offers may not impose on U.S. workers any restrictions or obligations that will not be imposed on the employer's CW-1 workers. This does not relieve the employer from providing to CW-1 workers at least the minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions which must be offered to U.S. workers consistent with this section.
(q)
Nondiscriminatory hiring practices.
The job opportunity is open to any qualified U.S. worker as defined in § 655.402, regardless of race, color, national origin, age, sex, religion, disability, or citizenship. Rejections of any U.S. workers who applied or apply for the job must only be for lawful, job-related reasons, and those not rejected on this basis have been or will be hired. In addition, the employer has and will continue to retain records of all hired workers and rejected applicants as required by § 655.456.
(r)
Recruitment requirements.
The employer must conduct all required recruitment activities, including any additional employer-conducted recruitment activities as directed by the CO, and as specified in §§ 655.442 through 655.445.
(s)
No strike or lockout.
There is no strike or lockout at any of the employer's place(s) of employment within the Commonwealth for which the employer is requesting CW-1 certification at the
time the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is filed.
(t)
No recent or future layoffs.
The employer has not laid off and will not lay off any similarly employed U.S. worker in the occupation that is the subject of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in the Commonwealth within the period beginning 270 calendar days before the date of need and through the end of the TLC's period of certification. A layoff for lawful, job-related reasons such as lack of work or the end of a season is permissible if all CW-1 workers are laid off before any U.S. worker in corresponding employment.
(u)
No work performed outside the Commonwealth and job opportunity.
The employer must not place any CW-1 workers employed under the approved
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
outside the Commonwealth or in a job opportunity not listed on the approved
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(v)
Abandonment/termination of employment.
Upon the separation from employment of any worker employed under the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or workers in corresponding employment, if such separation occurs before the end date of the employment period specified in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the employer must notify OFLC in writing of the separation from employment not later than 2 working days after such separation is discovered by the employer. An abandonment or abscondment is deemed to begin after a worker fails to report for work at the regularly scheduled time for 5 consecutive working days without the consent of the employer. If the separation is due to the voluntary abandonment of employment by the CW-1 worker or worker in corresponding employment or is terminated for cause, and the employer provides appropriate notification specified under this paragraph (v), the employer will not be responsible for providing or paying for the subsequent transportation and subsistence costs of that worker under this section, and that worker is not entitled to the three-fourths guarantee described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(w)
Compliance with applicable laws.
During the period of employment specified on the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the employer must comply with all applicable Federal and Commonwealth employment-related laws and regulations, including health and safety laws. This includes compliance with 18 U.S.C. 1592(a), with respect to prohibitions against employers, the employer's agents, or their attorneys knowingly holding, destroying or confiscating workers' passports, visas, or other immigration documents.
§§ 655.424-655.429
[Reserved]

# Processing of an CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
§ 655.430
Review of applications.
(a)
NPC review.
The CO will review the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
for compliance with all applicable program requirements, including compliance with the requirements set forth in this subpart, and make a decision as to whether to issue a NOD under § 655.431 or a Notice of Acceptance (NOA) under § 655.433.
(b)
Mailing and postmark requirements.
Any notice or request sent by the CO to an employer requiring a response will be sent electronically or via first class mail using the address, including electronic mail address, provided on the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The employer's response to such a notice or request must be filed electronically or via first class mail. The employer's response must be filed electronically or postmarked by the date due or the next business day if the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal Holiday.
(c)
Information dissemination.
OFLC may forward, to DHS or any other Federal Government Official performing an investigation, inspection, audit, or law enforcement function, information OFLC receives in the course of processing a request for a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
or of administering program integrity measures such as audits.
§ 655.431
Notice of Deficiency.
(a)
Notification.
If the CO determines the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
contains errors or inaccuracies, or does not meet the requirements set forth in this subpart, the CO will issue a NOD to the employer and, if applicable, the employer's attorney or agent.
(b)
Notice content.
The NOD will:
(1) State the reason(s) the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
fails to meet the criteria for acceptance;
(2) Offer the employer an opportunity to submit a modified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
within 10 business days from the date of the NOD, and state the modification that is required for the CO to issue a NOA; and
(3) State that if the employer does not comply with the requirements of § 655.432 for submitting a modified application, the CO will deny the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
§ 655.432
Submission of modified applications.
(a)
Review of a modified CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
Upon receipt of a response to a NOD, including any modifications, the CO will review the response. The CO may issue one or more additional NODs before issuing a decision. The employer's failure to comply with a NOD, including not responding in a timely manner or not providing all required documentation, will result in a denial of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(b)
Acceptance of a modified CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
If the CO accepts the modification(s) to the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the CO will issue a NOA to the employer and, if applicable, the employer's attorney or agent.
(c)
Denial of modified CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
If the modified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
does not cure the deficiencies cited in the NOD(s) or otherwise fails to satisfy the criteria required for certification, the CO will, at its discretion, either send a second NOD or deny the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in accordance with the labor certification determination provisions in § 655.453.
(d)
Appeal from denial of modified CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The procedures for appealing a denial of a modified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
are the same as for appealing the denial of a nonmodified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
outlined in § 655.461.
(e)
Post acceptance modifications.
Notwithstanding the decision to accept the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the CO may require modifications to the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
at any time before the final determination to grant or deny the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
if the CO determines that the job offer does not contain the minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions set forth in § 655.441. The employer must make such modifications, or the application will be denied under § 655.453. The employer must provide all workers recruited in connection with the job opportunity in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
with a copy of the modified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
as approved by the CO, no later than the date work commences.
§ 655.433
Notice of Acceptance.
(a)
Notification.
When the CO determines the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
contains no errors or inaccuracies, and meets the requirements set forth in this subpart, the CO will issue a NOA to the employer and, if applicable, the employer's attorney or agent.
(b)
Notice content.
The NOA must:
(1) Direct the employer to engage in recruitment of U.S. workers as provided in §§ 655.442 through 655.444, including any additional recruitment ordered by the CO under § 655.445;
(2) State that such employer-conducted recruitment must begin within 14 calendar days from the date the NOA is issued, consistent with § 655.440(b);
(3) Require the employer to submit a report of its recruitment efforts, by the
date required by the CO in the NOA, as specified in § 655.446; and
(4) Advise the employer that failure to submit a complete recruitment report by the deadline will lead to denial of the application.
§ 655.434
Amendments to an application.
(a)
Increases in number of workers.
The
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may be amended at any time before the CO's certification determination to increase the number of workers requested in the initial
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
by not more than 20 percent (50 percent for employers requesting less than 10 workers) without requiring an additional recruitment period for U.S. workers. Requests for increases above the percent prescribed, without additional recruitment, may be approved by the CO only when the employer demonstrates that the need for additional workers could not have been foreseen and is wholly outside of the employer's control. All requests to increase the number of workers must be made in writing and will not be effective until approved by the CO. Upon acceptance of an amendment, the employer must promptly provide copies of any approved amendments to all U.S. workers recruited and hired under the original job offer.
(b)
Minor changes to the period of employment.
The
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
may be amended at any time before the CO's certification determination to make minor changes (meaning a change of up to 14 calendar days) in the total period of employment, without requiring an additional recruitment period for U.S. workers. Changes will not be effective until submitted in writing and approved by the CO. In considering whether to approve the request, the CO will review the reason(s) for the request, determine whether the reason(s) are on the whole justified, and take into account the effect any change(s) would have on the adequacy of the underlying test of the domestic labor market for the job opportunity. An employer must demonstrate that the change to the period of employment could not have been foreseen and is wholly outside of the employer's control. The CO will deny any request to change the period of employment where the total amended period of employment will exceed the maximum applicable duration permitted under § 655.420(g). Upon acceptance of an amendment, the employer must promptly provide copies of any approved amendments to all U.S. workers recruited and hired under the original job offer.
(c)
Other minor amendments to the CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The employer may request other minor amendments to the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
at any time before the CO's certification determination is issued. In considering whether to approve the request, the CO will determine whether the proposed amendment(s) are sufficiently justified and must take into account the effect of the changes on the underlying labor market test for the job opportunity. All requests for minor changes must be made in writing and will not be effective until approved by the CO. Upon acceptance of an amendment, the employer must promptly provide copies of any approved amendments to all U.S. workers recruited and hired under the original job offer.
(d)
Amendments after certification are not permitted.
After the CO has made a determination to certify the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
the employer may no longer request amendments.
§§ 655.435-655.439
[Reserved]

# Post Acceptance Requirements
§ 655.440
Employer-conducted recruitment.
(a)
Employer obligations.
Employers must conduct recruitment of U.S. workers to ensure that there are not qualified U.S. workers who will be available for the positions listed in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(b)
Period to begin employer-conducted recruitment.
Unless otherwise instructed by the CO, the employer must begin the recruitment required in §§ 655.442 through 655.445 within 14 calendar days from the date the NOA is
issued. All employer-conducted recruitment must be completed before the employer submits the recruitment report as required in § 655.446.
(c)
Interviewing U.S. workers.
Employers that wish to require interviews must conduct those interviews by phone or provide a procedure for the interviews to be conducted in the location where the worker is being recruited so that the worker incurs little or no cost. Employers cannot provide potential CW-1 workers with more favorable treatment with respect to the requirement for, and conduct of, interviews.
(d)
Qualified and available U.S. workers.
The employer must consider all U.S. applicants for the job opportunity and must hire all U.S. applicants who are qualified and who will be available for the job opportunity. U.S. applicants may be rejected only for lawful, job-related reasons, and those not rejected on this basis will be hired.
(e)
Recruitment report.
The employer must prepare a recruitment report meeting the requirements of § 655.446, by the date specified by the CO in the NOA.
§ 655.441
Job offer assurances and advertising contents.
(a)
General.
All recruitment conducted under §§ 655.442 through 655.445 in connection with an
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must contain terms and conditions of employment that are not less favorable than those offered to the CW-1 workers and must comply with the assurances applicable to job offers as set forth in § 655.423.
(b)
Contents.
All advertising must contain the following information:
(1) The employer's name and contact information;
(2) A statement that the job opportunity is a temporary, full-time position and identify the job title and total number of job openings the employer intends to fill;
(3) A description of the job opportunity with sufficient information to apprise applicants of the services or labor to be performed, including the job duties, the minimum education and experience requirements, the work hours and days, and the anticipated start and end dates of the job opportunity;
(4) The place(s) of employment with enough specificity to apprise applicants of any travel requirements and where applicants will likely have to reside to perform the services or labor;
(5) The wage that the employer is offering, intends to offer or will provide to the CW-1 workers or, in the event that there are multiple wage offers, the range of applicable wage offers, each of which must equal or exceed the highest of the prevailing wage or the Federal or Commonwealth minimum wage;
(6) If applicable, a statement that overtime will be available to the worker and specify the wage offer(s) for working any overtime hours;
(7) The frequency with which the worker will be paid as required by § 655.423(h);
(8) A statement that the employer will make all deductions from the worker's paycheck required by law, and must specify any deductions the employer intends to make from the worker's paycheck which are not required by law, including, if applicable, any deductions for the reasonable cost of board, lodging, or other facilities;
(9) A statement summarizing the three-fourths guarantee as required by § 655.423(f);
(10) A statement that transportation and subsistence will be provided to the worker while traveling from the worker's origin to the place of employment as will the return transportation and subsistence at the conclusion of the job opportunity, as required by § 655.423(j)(1);
(11) If applicable, a statement that daily transportation to and from the place(s) of employment will be provided by the employer;
(12) If applicable, a statement that the employer will provide to the worker, without charge or deposit charge, all tools, supplies, and equipment required to perform the duties assigned, in accordance with § 655.423(k);
(13) If applicable, any board, lodging, or other facilities the employer will offer to workers or intends to assist workers in securing;
(14) If applicable, a statement indicating that on-the-job training will be provided to the worker; and
(15) A statement that directs applicants to apply for the job opportunity directly with the employer, and that indicates at least two verifiable methods by which applicants may apply for the job opportunity, one of which must be via electronic means, and that provides the days and hours during which applicants may be interviewed for the job opportunity.
§ 655.442
Place advertisement with CNMI Department of Labor.
(a) The employer must place an advertisement with the CNMI Department of Labor for a period of 21 consecutive calendar days satisfying the requirements set forth in § 655.441.
(b) Documentation of this step must include:
(1) Either printouts of web pages in which the advertisement appeared on the CNMI Department of Labor job listing system, or other verifiable evidence from the CNMI Department of Labor containing the text of the advertisement; and
(2) The dates of publication demonstrating compliance with the requirement of this section.
§ 655.443
Contact with former U.S. workers.
The employer must contact (by mail or other effective means) its former U.S. workers, including those who have been laid off within 270 calendar days before the date of need, employed by the employer in the occupation at the place(s) of employment during the previous year (except those who were dismissed for cause or who abandoned the place(s) of employment), provide a copy of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
and solicit their return to the job. This contact must occur during the period of time that the job offer is being advertised on the CNMI Department of Labor's job listing system under § 655.442. The employer must retain documentation sufficient to prove such contact in accordance with § 655.456. An employer has no obligation to contact U.S. workers it terminated for cause or who abandoned employment at any time during the previous year, if the employer provided timely notice to the NPC of the termination or abandonment in the manner described in § 655.423(v).
§ 655.444
Notice of posting requirement.
The employer must post a copy of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
in at least two conspicuous locations at the place(s) of employment or in some other manner that provides reasonable notification to all employees in the job classification and area in which the work will be performed by the CW-1 workers. Electronic posting, such as displaying an electronic copy of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
prominently on any internal or external website that is maintained by the employer and customarily used for notices to employees about terms and conditions of employment, is sufficient to meet this posting requirement as long as it otherwise meets the requirements of this section. The notice must be posted for a period of 21 consecutive calendar days. The employer must maintain proof the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
was posted and identify where and during what period of time it was posted in accordance with § 655.456.
§ 655.445
Additional employer-conducted recruitment.
(a)
Requirement to conduct additional recruitment.
The employer may be instructed by the CO to conduct additional reasonable recruitment. Such recruitment may be required at the discretion of the CO where the CO has determined that there is a likelihood that U.S. workers who are qualified will be available for the work.
(b)
Nature of the additional employer-conducted recruitment.
The CO will describe the precise number and nature of the additional recruitment efforts. Additional recruitment may include, but is not limited to, advertising the job offer on the employer's website or another electronic job search website; advertising with community-based organizations, local unions, or trade unions; or other advertising using a professional, trade, or other publication where such a publication is appropriate for the workers likely to apply for the job opportunity. When assessing
the appropriateness of a particular recruitment method, the CO will consider the cost of the additional recruitment and the likelihood that the additional recruitment method(s) will identify qualified and available U.S. workers.
(c)
Proof of the additional employer-conducted recruitment.
The CO will specify the documentation or other supporting evidence that must be retained by the employer as proof that the additional recruitment requirements were met. Documentation must be retained as required in § 655.456.
§ 655.446
Recruitment report.
(a)
Requirements of the recruitment report.
No fewer than 2 calendar days after the last date on which the last advertisement appeared, as required by the NOA issued under § 655.433, the employer must prepare, sign, and date a recruitment report. Where recruitment was conducted by a job contractor or its employer-client, both joint employers must sign the recruitment report in accordance with § 655.421(e)(1). The recruitment report must be submitted to the NPC, by the date specified in the NOA, and contain the following information:
(1) The name of each recruitment activity or source;
(2) The name and contact information of each U.S. worker who applied or was referred to the job opportunity up to the date of the preparation of the recruitment report, and the disposition of each worker's application. The employer must clearly indicate whether the job opportunity was offered to the U.S. worker and whether the U.S. worker accepted or declined;
(3) Confirmation that the advertisement was posted on the CNMI Department of Labor's job listing system and the dates of advertising;
(4) Confirmation that former U.S. employees were contacted, if applicable, and by what means and the date(s) of contact;
(5) Confirmation the employer posted the availability of the job opportunity to all employees in the job classification and area in which the work will be performed by the CW-1 workers and the dates of advertising;
(6) If applicable, confirmation that additional recruitment was conducted as directed by the CO and the date(s) of advertising; and
(7) If applicable, for each U.S. worker who applied for the position but was not hired, the lawful job-related reason(s) for not hiring the U.S. worker.
(b)
Duty to update and retain the recruitment report.
The employer must update the recruitment report throughout the recruitment period. In a joint employment situation, either the job contractor or the employer-client may update the recruitment report throughout the recruitment period. The employer must retain the recruitment report as required in § 655.456.
§§ 655.447-655.449
[Reserved]

# Labor Certification Determinations
§ 655.450
Determinations.
Except as otherwise noted in this section, the OFLC Administrator and CO(s), by virtue of delegation from the OFLC Administrator, have the authority to certify or deny
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.
The CO will certify the application only if the employer has met all the requirements of this subpart, including the criteria for certification in § 655.451, thus demonstrating that there is an insufficient number of U.S. workers in the Commonwealth who are able, willing, qualified and who will be available at the time and place of the job opportunity for which certification is sought and that the employment of the CW-1 workers will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of similarly employed U.S. workers.
§ 655.451
Criteria for temporary labor certification.
(a) The criteria for TLC include whether the employer has complied with all of the requirements of this subpart, which are required to grant the labor certification.
(b) In determining whether there are insufficient U.S. workers in the Commonwealth to fill the employer's job opportunity, the CO will count as available any U.S. worker who applied (or on whose behalf an application is made) directly to the employer, but who was rejected by the employer for other than a lawful job-related reason. In making this determination, the CO
will also consider the employer's contacts with its former U.S. workers, including workers that have been laid off within 270 calendar days before the date of need.
§ 655.452
Approved certification.
If the TLC is granted, the CO will send a Final Determination notice and a copy of the certified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
to the employer and a copy, if applicable, to the employer's agent or attorney using an electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. For employers permitted to file by mail as set forth in § 655.420(c), the CO will send the Final Determination notice and a copy of the certified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
by first class mail. The CO will send the certified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
including approved modifications, on behalf of the employer, directly to USCIS using an electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. The employer must retain a copy of the certified
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
including the original signed Appendix C, as required by § 655.456.
§ 655.453
Denied certification.
If an electronically filed TLC is denied, the CO will send the Final Determination notice to the employer and a copy, if applicable, to the employer's agent or attorney using an electronic method(s) designated by the OFLC Administrator. For employers permitted to file by mail as set forth in § 655.420(c), the CO will send the Final Determination notice by first class mail. The Final Determination notice will:
(a) State the reason(s) certification is denied, citing the relevant regulatory standards;
(b) Offer the employer an opportunity to request administrative review of the denial under § 655.461; and
(c) State that if the employer does not request administrative review in accordance with § 655.461, the denial is final, and the Department will not accept any appeal on that
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
§ 655.454
Partial certification.
The CO may issue a partial certification, reducing either the period of need or the number of CW-1 workers or both, based upon information the CO receives during the course of processing the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
an audit, or otherwise. The number of workers certified will be reduced by one for each U.S. worker who is able, willing, and qualified, and who will be available at the time and place needed and who has not been rejected for lawful, job-related reasons, to perform the labor or services. If a partial labor certification is issued, the CO will send the Final Determination notice approving partial certification using the procedures at § 655.452.
The Final Determination notice will:
(a) State the reason(s) the period of employment or the number of CW-1 workers requested has been reduced, citing the relevant regulatory standards;
(b) Offer the employer an opportunity to request administrative review of the partial certification under § 655.461; and
(c) State that if the employer does not request administrative judicial review in accordance with § 655.461, the partial certification is final, and the Department will not accept any appeal on that
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
§ 655.455
Validity of temporary labor certification.
(a)
Validity period.
A TLC is valid only for the period of employment as approved on the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
The certification expires after the last day of authorized employment, including any approved extensions thereof.
(b)
Scope of validity.
A TLC is valid only for the number of CW-1 positions, the places of employment located in the Commonwealth, the job classification and specific services or labor to be performed, and the employer(s) specified on the approved
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
including any approved modifications. The TLC may not be transferred from one employer to another unless the employer to which it is transferred is a
successor in interest to the employer to which it was issued.
§ 655.456
Document retention requirements for CW-1 employers.
(a)
Entities required to retain documents.
All CW-1 employers filing a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
are required to retain the documents and records establishing compliance with this subpart, including but not limited to those specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Period of record retention.
The employer must retain records and documents for 3 years from the date on which the certification of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
expires, or 3 years from the date of the final determination if the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
is denied, or 3 years from the date the Department receives the request for withdrawal of a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
under § 655.462.
(c)
Documents and records to be retained by all employers.
All employers filing a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
must retain the following documents and records and must provide the documents and records to the Department and any other Federal Government Official in the event of an audit or investigation:
(1) Proof of recruitment efforts, including:
(i) Placement of the job offer with the CNMI Department of Labor as specified in § 655.442;
(ii) Contact with former U.S. employees as specified in § 655.443, including documents demonstrating that each such U.S. worker had been offered the job opportunity listed in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
and that the U.S. worker either refused the job opportunity or was rejected only for lawful, job-related reasons;
(iii) Posting notice of the job opportunity to all employees in the job classification and area in which the work will be performed by the CW-1 workers as specified in § 655.444; and
(iv) All additional employer-conducted recruitment required by the CO as specified in § 655.445.
(2) Documentation supporting the information submitted in the recruitment report prepared in accordance with § 655.446, such as evidence of nonapplicability of contact with former workers as specified in § 655.443 and any supporting resumes and contact information as specified in § 655.446.
(3) Records of each worker's earnings, hours offered and worked, location(s) where work is performed, and other information as specified in § 655.423(i).
(4) If applicable, records of reimbursement of transportation and subsistence costs incurred by the workers, as specified in § 655.423(j).
(5) Copies of written contracts with third parties demonstrating compliance with the prohibition of seeking or receiving payments or other compensation of any kind from prospective workers as specified in § 655.423(o).
(6) Evidence of the employer's contact with U.S. workers who applied for the job opportunity in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
including, but not limited to, documents demonstrating that any rejections of U.S. workers were for lawful, job-related reasons, as specified in § 655.423(q).
(7) Written notice provided to and informing OFLC that a CW-1 worker or worker in corresponding employment has separated from employment before the end date of employment specified in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
as specified in § 655.423(v).
(8) A copy of the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and all accompanying appendices, including any modifications, amendments, or extensions, signed by the employer as directed by the CO.
(d)
Availability of documents and records for enforcement purposes.
The employer must make available to the Department, DHS or to any Federal Government Official performing an investigation, inspection, audit, or law enforcement function all documents and records required to be retained under this subpart for purposes of copying, transcribing, or inspecting them.
§§ 655.457-655.459
[Reserved]

# Post Certification Activities
§ 655.460
Extensions.
(a)
Basis for extension.
Under certain circumstances an employer may apply for extensions of the period of employment. A request for extension must be related to weather conditions or other factors beyond the control of the employer (which may include unforeseen changes in market conditions). Such requests must be supported in writing, with documentation showing that the extension is needed and that the need could not have been reasonably foreseen by the employer. The CO will not grant an extension where the total period of employment under that
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and the authorized extension would exceed the maximum applicable duration permitted under § 655.420(g).
(b)
Decision by the CO.
The CO will notify the employer of the decision in writing. The employer may appeal a denial of a request for an extension by following the appeal procedures in § 655.461.
(c)
Obligations during period of extension.
The CW-1 employer's assurances and obligations under the TLC will continue to apply during the extended period of employment. The employer must immediately provide to its CW-1 workers and workers in corresponding employment a copy of any approved extension.
§ 655.461
Administrative review.
(a)
Request for review.
Where authorized in this subpart, an employer wishing review of a determination by the CO must request an administrative review before BALCA of that determination to exhaust its administrative remedies. In such cases, the request for review:
(1) Must be received by BALCA, and the CO who issued the determination, within 10 business days from the date of the determination;
(2) Must clearly identify the particular determination for which review is sought;
(3) Must include a copy of the CO's determination;
(4) Must set forth the particular grounds for the request, including the specific factual issues the requesting party alleges needs to be examined in connection with the CO's determination;
(5) May contain any legal argument that the employer believes will rebut the basis for the CO's determination, including any briefing the employer wishes to submit; and
(6) May contain only such evidence as was actually before the CO at the time of the CO's determination.
(b)
Appeal File.
After the receipt of a request for review, the CO will send a copy of the Appeal File, as soon as practicable by means normally assuring next-day delivery, to BALCA, the employer, the employer's attorney or agent (if applicable), and the Associate Solicitor for Employment and Training Legal Services, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor (counsel).
(c)
Assignment.
The Chief ALJ will immediately, upon receipt of the appeal file from the CO, assign either a single member or a three-member panel of BALCA to consider a particular case.
(d)
Administrative review
—(1)
Briefing schedule.
If the employer wishes to submit a brief on appeal, it must do so as part of its request for review. Within 7 business days of receipt of the Appeal File, the counsel for the CO may submit a brief in support of the CO's decision and, if applicable, in response to the employer's brief.
(2)
Standard of review.
The ALJ must uphold the CO's decision unless shown by the employer to be arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with the law.
(e)
Scope of review.
BALCA will, except in cases over which the Secretary has assumed jurisdiction pursuant to 29 CFR 18.95, affirm, reverse, or modify the CO's determination, or remand to the CO for further action. BALCA will reach this decision after due consideration of the documents in the Appeal File that were before the CO at the time of the CO's determination, the request for review, and any legal briefs submitted. BALCA may not consider evidence not before the CO at the time of the CO's determination, even if such
evidence is in the Appeal File, request for review, or legal briefs.
(f)
Decision.
The decision of BALCA must specify the reasons for the action taken and must be provided to the employer, the CO, and counsel for the CO within 7 business days of the submission of the CO's brief or 10 business days after receipt of the Appeal File, whichever is later, using means normally assuring expedited delivery.
[84 FR 12431, Apr. 1, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 13029, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30615, May 20, 2020]
§ 655.462
Withdrawal of a CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(a) The employer may withdraw a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
after it has been submitted to the NPC for processing, including after the CO grants certification under § 655.450. However, the employer is still obligated to comply with the terms and conditions of employment contained in the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and work contract with respect to all workers recruited and hired in connection with that application.
(b) To request withdrawal, the employer must submit a request in writing to the NPC identifying the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
and stating the reason(s) for the withdrawal.
§ 655.463
Public disclosure.
The Department will maintain an electronic file accessible to the public with information on all employers applying for TLCs. The database will include such information as the number of workers requested, the date filed, the date decided, and the final disposition.
§§ 655.464-655.469
[Reserved]

# Integrity Measures
§ 655.470
Audits.
The CO may conduct audits of certified
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification.
(a)
Discretion.
The CO has the sole discretion to choose the certified applications selected for audit.
(b)
Audit letter.
Where an application is selected for audit, the CO will issue an audit letter to the employer and a copy, if appropriate, to the employer's attorney or agent. The audit letter will:
(1) Specify the documentation that must be submitted by the employer;
(2) Specify a date, no more than 30 calendar days from the date the audit letter is issued, by which the required documentation must be sent to the CO; and
(3) Advise that failure to comply fully with the audit process may result:
(i) In the requirement that the employer undergo the assisted recruitment procedures in § 655.471 in future filings of
CW-1 Applications for Temporary Employment Certification
for a period of up to 2 years; or
(ii) In a revocation of the certification or debarment from the CW-1 program and any other foreign labor certification program administered by the Department.
(c)
Supplemental information request.
During the course of the audit examination, the CO may request supplemental information or documentation from the employer in order to complete the audit. If circumstances warrant, the CO can issue one or more requests for supplemental information.
(d)
Potential referrals.
In addition to measures in this subpart, the CO may decide to provide the audit findings and underlying documentation to DHS or other appropriate enforcement agencies. The CO may refer any findings that an employer discouraged a qualified U.S. worker from applying, or failed to hire, discharged, or otherwise discriminated against a qualified U.S. worker, to the Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Immigrant and Employee Rights Section.
§ 655.471
Assisted recruitment.
(a)
Requirement of assisted recruitment.
If, as a result of audit or otherwise, the CO determines that a violation has occurred that does not warrant debarment, the CO may require the employer to engage in assisted recruitment for a defined period of time for any future
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(b)
Notification of assisted recruitment.
The CO will notify the employer (and its attorney or agent, if applicable) in writing of the assisted recruitment that will be required of the employer for a period of up to 2 years from the date the notice is issued. The notification will state the reasons for the imposition of the additional requirements, state that the employer's agreement to accept the conditions will constitute their inclusion as bona fide conditions and terms of a
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
and offer the employer an opportunity to request an administrative review. If administrative review is requested, the procedures in § 655.461 apply.
(c)
Assisted recruitment.
The assisted recruitment process will be in addition to any recruitment required of the employer by §§ 655.442 through 655.445 and may consist of, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:
(1) Requiring the employer to submit a draft advertisement to the CO for review and approval at the time of filing the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
;
(2) Designating the sources where the employer must recruit for U.S. workers in the Commonwealth and directing the employer to place the advertisement(s) in such sources;
(3) Extending the length of the placement of the advertisements;
(4) Requiring the employer to notify the CO in writing when the advertisement(s) are placed;
(5) Requiring an employer to perform any additional assisted recruitment directed by the CO;
(6) Requiring the employer to provide proof of the publication of all advertisements as directed by the CO;
(7) Requiring the employer to provide proof of all U.S. workers who applied (or on whose behalf an application is made) in response to the employer's recruitment efforts;
(8) Requiring the employer to submit any proof of contact with all referrals and former U.S. workers; or
(9) Requiring the employer to provide any additional documentation verifying it conducted the assisted recruitment as directed by the CO.
(d)
Failure to comply.
If an employer materially fails to comply with requirements ordered by the CO under this section, the certification will be denied and the employer and its attorney or agent may be debarred under § 655.473.
§ 655.472
Revocation.
(a)
Basis for revocation.
The OFLC Administrator may revoke a TLC approved under this subpart, if the OFLC Administrator finds:
(1) The issuance of the TLC was not justified due to fraud or misrepresentation of a material fact in the application process;
(2) The employer substantially failed to comply with any of the terms or conditions of the approved TLC. A substantial failure is a failure to comply that constitutes a significant deviation from the terms and conditions of the approved certification and is further defined in § 655.473(d); or
(3) The employer impeded the audit process, as set forth in § 655.470, or impeded any Federal Government Official performing an investigation, inspection, audit, or law enforcement function.
(b)
DOL procedures for revocation
—(1)
Notice of Revocation.
If the OFLC Administrator makes a determination to revoke an employer's TLC, the OFLC Administrator will issue a Notice of Revocation to the employer (and its attorney or agent, if applicable). The notice will contain a detailed statement of the grounds for the revocation and inform the employer of its right to submit rebuttal evidence to the OFLC Administrator or to request administrative review of the Notice of Revocation by BALCA. If the employer does not submit rebuttal evidence or request administrative review within 10 business days from the date the Notice of Revocation is issued, the notice will become the final agency action and will take effect immediately at the end of the 10 business days.
(2)
Rebuttal.
If the employer timely submits rebuttal evidence, the OFLC Administrator will inform the employer of the final determination on the revocation within 10 business days of receiving the rebuttal evidence. If the OFLC Administrator determines that the certification must be revoked, the OFLC Administrator will inform
the employer of its right to appeal the final determination to BALCA according to the procedures of § 655.461. If the employer does not appeal the final determination, it will become the final agency action.
(3)
Request for review.
An employer may appeal a Notice of Revocation or a final determination of the OFLC Administrator after the review of rebuttal evidence to BALCA, according to the appeal procedures of § 655.461.
(4)
Stay.
The timely submission of rebuttal evidence or a request for administrative review will stay the revocation pending the outcome of the proceeding.
(5)
Decision.
If the TLC is revoked, the OFLC Administrator will provide copies of final revocation decisions to DHS and DOS promptly.
(c)
Employer's obligations in the event of revocation.
If an employer's TLC is revoked, the employer is responsible for:
(1) Reimbursement of actual inbound transportation and other required expenses;
(2) The workers' outbound transportation and other required expenses;
(3) Payment to the workers of the amount due under the three-fourths guarantee; and
(4) Any other wages, benefits, and working conditions due or owing to the workers under this subpart.
[84 FR 12431, Apr. 1, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 13029, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30615, May 20, 2020]
§ 655.473
Debarment.
(a)
Debarment of an employer, agent, or attorney.
The OFLC Administrator may debar an employer, agent, attorney, or any successor in interest to that employer, agent, or attorney, from participating in any action under this subpart, subject to the time limits set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, if the OFLC Administrator finds that the employer, agent, or attorney substantially violated a material term or condition of the
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
or
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,
as defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The OFLC Administrator will provide copies of final debarment decisions to DHS and DOS promptly.
(b)
Effect on future applications in all foreign labor programs.
The debarred employer, or a debarred agent or attorney, or any successor in interest to any debarred employer, agent, or attorney, will be disqualified from filing any labor certification applications or labor condition applications with the Department subject to the term limits set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. If such an application is filed, it will be denied without review.
(c)
Period of debarment.
No employer, agent, or attorney may be debarred under this subpart for more than 5 years for a single violation.
(d)
Definition of violation.
For the purposes of this section, a violation of a material term or condition of the
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
or
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
includes:
(1) One or more acts of commission or omission on the part of the employer or the employer's agent or attorney that involve:
(i) Failure to pay or provide the required wages, benefits, or working conditions to the employer's CW-1 workers or workers in corresponding employment;
(ii) Failure, except for lawful, job-related reasons, to offer employment to qualified U.S. workers who applied for the job opportunity for which certification was sought;
(iii) Failure to comply with the employer's obligations to recruit U.S. workers;
(iv) Improper layoff or displacement of U.S. workers or workers in corresponding employment;
(v) Failure to comply with the NOD process, as set forth in § 655.431, or the assisted recruitment process, as set forth in § 655.471;
(vi) Impeding the audit process, as set forth in § 655.470, or impeding any Federal Government Official performing an investigation, inspection, audit, or law enforcement function;
(vii) Employing a CW-1 worker outside of the Commonwealth, in an activity not listed in the work contract, or outside the validity period of employment of the work contract, including any approved extension thereof;
(viii) A violation of the requirements of § 655.423(n) or (o);
(ix) A violation of any of the provisions listed in § 655.423(q); or
(x) Any other act showing such flagrant disregard for the law that future compliance with program requirements cannot reasonably be expected;
(2) Fraud involving the
Application for Prevailing Wage Determination
or the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification
under this subpart; or
(3) A material misrepresentation of fact during the course of processing the
CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.
(e)
Determining whether a violation is substantial.
In determining whether a violation is substantial as to merit debarment, the factors the OFLC Administrator may consider include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Previous history of violation(s) under the CW-1 program;
(2) The number of CW-1 workers, workers in corresponding employment, or U.S. workers who were or are affected by the violation(s);
(3) The gravity of the violation(s); or
(4) The extent to which the violator achieved a financial gain due to the violation(s), or the potential financial loss or potential injury to the worker(s).
(f)
Debarment procedure
—(1)
Notice of Debarment.
If the OFLC Administrator makes a determination to debar an employer, agent, attorney, or any successor in interest to that employer, agent, or attorney, the OFLC Administrator will issue the party a Notice of Debarment. The notice will state the reason(s) for the debarment finding, including a detailed explanation of the grounds for and the duration of the debarment, and it will inform the party subject to the notice of its right to submit rebuttal evidence to the OFLC Administrator, or to request administrative review of the decision by BALCA. If the party does not file rebuttal evidence or a request for review within 30 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Debarment, the notice is the final agency action and the debarment will take effect on the date specified in the notice or if no date is specified, at the end of 30 calendar days The timely filing of rebuttal evidence or a request for review stays the debarment pending the outcome of the appeal as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) through (6) of this section.
(2)
Rebuttal.
The party who received the Notice of Debarment may choose to submit evidence to rebut the grounds stated in the notice within 30 calendar days of the date the notice is issued. If rebuttal evidence is timely filed, the OFLC Administrator will issue a Final Determination on the debarment within 30 calendar days of receiving the rebuttal evidence. If the OFLC Administrator determines that the party must be debarred, the OFLC Administrator will issue a Final Determination and inform the party of its right to request administrative review of the debarment by BALCA according to the procedures in this section. The party must request review within 30 calendar days after the date of the Final Determination, or the Final Determination will be the final agency order and the debarment will take effect on the date specified in the Final Determination or if no date is specified, at the end of 30 calendar days.
(3)
Request for review.
(i) The recipient of a Notice of Debarment or Final Determination seeking to challenge the debarment must request review of the debarment within 30 calendar days of the date of the Notice of Debarment or the date of the Final Determination by the OFLC Administrator after review of rebuttal evidence submitted under paragraph (f)(2) of this section. A request for review of debarment must be filed in writing with the Chief ALJ, United States Department of Labor, in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, with a simultaneous copy served on the OFLC Administrator; the request must clearly identify the particular debarment determination for which review is sought; and must set forth the particular grounds for the request. If no timely request for review is filed, the debarment will take effect on the date specified in the Notice of Debarment or Final Determination, or if no date is specified, 30 calendar days from the date the Notice of Debarment or Final Determination is issued.
(ii) Upon receipt of a request for review, the OFLC Administrator will promptly send a certified copy of the ETA case file to the Chief ALJ by
means normally assuring expedited delivery. The Chief ALJ will immediately assign an ALJ to conduct the review.
(iii) Statements, briefs, and other submissions of the parties must contain only legal argument and only such evidence that was within the record upon which the debarment was based, including any rebuttal evidence submitted pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(4)
Review by the ALJ.
(i) In considering requests for review, the ALJ must afford all parties 30 days to submit or decline to submit any appropriate Statement of Position or legal brief. The ALJ must review the debarment determination on the basis of the record upon which the decision was made, the request for review, and any Statements of Position or legal briefs submitted.
(ii) The ALJ's final decision must affirm, reverse, or modify the OFLC Administrator's determination. The ALJ's decision will be provided to the parties by expedited mail. The ALJ's decision is the final agency action, unless either party, within 30 calendar days of the ALJ's decision, seeks review of the decision with the Administrative Review Board (ARB).
(5)
Review by the ARB.
(i) Any party wishing review of the decision of an ALJ must, within 30 calendar days of the decision of the ALJ, petition the ARB to review the decision in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. Copies of the petition must be served on all parties and on the ALJ. The ARB will decide whether to accept the petition within 30 calendar days of receipt. If the ARB declines to accept the petition, or if the ARB does not issue a notice accepting a petition within 30 calendar days after the receipt of a timely filing of the petition, the decision of the ALJ is the final agency action. If a petition for review is accepted, the decision of the ALJ will be stayed unless and until the ARB issues an order affirming the decision. The ARB must serve notice of its decision to accept or not to accept the petition upon the ALJ and upon all parties to the proceeding.
(ii) Upon receipt of the ARB's notice to accept the petition, the Office of Administrative Law Judges will promptly forward a copy of the complete appeal record to the ARB.
(iii) Where the ARB has determined to review the decision and order, the ARB will notify each party of the issue(s) raised, the form in which submissions must be made (e.g., briefs or oral argument), and the time within which the presentation must be submitted.
(6)
ARB decision.
The ARB's decision must be issued within 90 calendar days from the notice granting the petition and served upon all parties and the ALJ.
[84 FR 12431, Apr. 1, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 13029, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30615, May 20, 2020; 86 FR 1778, Jan. 11, 2021]
§§ 655.474-655.499
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Attestations by Employers Using Alien Crewmembers for Longshore Activities in U.S. Ports

# Source:
60 FR 3956, 3976, Jan. 19, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 655.500
Purpose, procedure and applicability of subparts F and G of this part.
(a)
Purpose.
(1) Section 258 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (“Act”) prohibits nonimmigrant alien crewmembers admitted to the United States on D-visas from performing longshore work at U.S. ports except in five specific instances:
(i) Where the vessel's country of registration does not prohibit U.S. crewmembers from performing longshore work in that country's ports and nationals of a country (or countries) which does not prohibit U.S. crewmembers from performing longshore work in that country's ports hold a majority of the ownership interest in the vessel, as determined by the Secretary of State (henceforth referred to as the “reciprocity exception”);
(ii) Where there is in effect in a local port one or more collective bargaining agreement(s), each covering at least thirty percent of the longshore workers, and each permitting the activity
to be performed under the terms of such agreement(s);
(iii) Where there is no collective bargaining agreement covering at least thirty percent of the longshore workers at the particular port and an attestation with accompanying documentation has been filed with the Department of Labor attesting that, among other things, the use of alien crewmembers to perform a particular activity of longshore work is permitted under the prevailing practice of the particular port (henceforth referred to as the “prevailing practice exception”);
(iv) Where the longshore work is to be performed at a particular location in the State of Alaska and an attestation with accompanying documentation has been filed with the Department of Labor attesting that, among other things, before using alien crewmembers to perform the activity specified in the attestation, the employer will make a bona fide request for and employ United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers from contract stevedoring companies, labor organizations recognized as exclusive bargaining representatives of United States longshore workers, and private dock operators (henceforth referred to as the “Alaska exception”); or
(v) Where the longshore work involves an automated self-unloading conveyor belt or vacuum-actuated system on a vessel and the Administrator has not previously determined that an attestation must be filed pursuant to this part as a basis for performing those functions (henceforth referred to as the “automated vessel exception”).
(2) The term “longshore work” does not include the loading or unloading of hazardous cargo, as determined by the Secretary of Transportation, for safety and environmental protection. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), determines whether an employer may use alien crewmembers for longshore work at U.S. ports. In those cases where an employer must file an attestation in order to perform such work, the Department of Labor shall be responsible for accepting the filing of such attestations. Subpart F of this part sets forth the procedure for filing attestations with the Department of Labor for employers proposing to use alien crewmembers for longshore work at U.S. ports under the prevailing practice exception, the Alaska exception, and where it has been determined that an attestation is required under the automated vessel exception listed in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section. Subpart G of this part sets forth complaint, investigation, and penalty provisions with respect to such attestations.
(b)
Procedure.
(1) Under the prevailing practice exception in sec. 258(c) of the Act, and in those cases where it has been determined that an attestation is required under the automated vessel exception for longshore work to be performed at locations other than in the State of Alaska, the procedure involves filing an attestation with the Department of Labor attesting that:
(i) The use of alien crewmembers for a particular activity of longshore work is the prevailing practice at the particular port;
(ii) The use of alien crewmembers is not during a strike or lockout nor designed to influence the election of a collective bargaining representative; and
(iii) Notice of the attestation has been provided to the bargaining representative of longshore workers in the local port, or, where there is none, notice has been provided to longshore workers employed at the local port.
(2) Under the automated vessel exception in sec. 258(c) of the Act, no attestation is required in cases where longshore activity consists of the use of an automated self-unloading conveyor belt or vacuum-actuated system on a vessel. The legislation creates a rebuttable presumption that the use of alien crewmembers for the operation of such automated systems is the prevailing practice. In order to overcome such presumption, it must be shown by the preponderance of the evidence submitted by any interested party, that the use of alien crewmembers for such activity is not the prevailing practice at the particular port, that it is during
a strike or lockout, or that it is intended or designed to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers in the local port.
(3) Under the Alaska exception in sec. 258(d) of the Act, and in those cases where it has been determined that an attestation is required under the automated vessel exception consisting of the use of such equipment for longshore work to be performed in the State of Alaska, the procedure involves filing an attestation with the Department of Labor attesting that:
(i) The employer will make a bona fide request for United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers to perform the activity at the particular time and location from the parties to whom notice has been provided under paragraph (b)(3)(iv) (B) and (C) of this section, except that:
(A) Wherever two or more contract stevedoring companies which meet the requirements of section 32 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 932) have signed a joint collective bargaining agreement with a single labor organization recognized as an exclusive bargaining representative of United States longshore workers within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 141
et seq.
), the employer may request longshore workers from only one such contract stevedoring company, and
(B) A request for longshore workers to an operator of a private dock may be made only for longshore work to be performed at that dock and only if the operator meets the requirements of section 32 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 932);
(ii) The employer will employ all United States longshore workers made available in response to the request made pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers and who are needed to perform the longshore activity at the particular time and location attested to;
(iii) The use of alien crewmembers for such activity is not intended or designed to influence and election of a bargaining representative for workers in the State of Alaska; and
(iv) Notice of the attestation has been provided to:
(A) Labor organizations which have been recognized as exclusive bargaining representatives of United States longshore workers within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 141
et seq.
) and which make available or intend to make available workers to the particular location where the longshore work is to be performed;
(B) Contract stevedoring companies which employ or intend to employ United States longshore workers at that location; and
(C) Operators of private docks at which the employer will use longshore workers.
(c)
Applicability.
Subparts F and G of this part apply to all employers who seek to employ alien crewmembers for longshore work at U.S. ports under the prevailing practice exception, to all employers who seek to employ alien crewmembers for longshore work at locations in the State of Alaska under the Alaska exception, to all employers claiming the automated vessel exception, and to those cases where it has been determined that an attestation is required under the automated vessel exception.
[60 FR 3956, 3976, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 35520, June 21, 2006]
§ 655.501
Overview of responsibilities.
This section provides a context for the attestation process, to facilitate understanding by employers that may seek to employ alien crewmembers for longshore work under the prevailing practice exception, under the Alaska exception, and in those cases where an attestation is necessary under the automated vessel exception.
(a)
Department of Labor's responsibilities.
The United States Department of Labor (DOL) administers the attestation process. Within DOL, the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) shall have responsibility for setting up and operating the attestation process; the Employment Standards
Administration's Wage and Hour Division shall be responsible for investigating and resolving any complaints filed concerning such attestations.
(b)
Employer attestation responsibilities.
(1) Each employer seeking to use alien crewmembers for longshore work at a local U.S. port pursuant to the prevailing practice exception or where an attestation is required under the automated vessel exception for longshore work to be performed at locations other than in the State of Alaska shall, as the first step, submit an attestation on Form ETA 9033, as described in § 655.510 of this part, to ETA at the address set forth at § 655.510(b) of this part. If ETA accepts the attestation for filing, pursuant to § 655.510 of this part, ETA shall return the cover form of the accepted attestation to the employer, and, at the same time, shall provide notice of the filing to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) office having jurisdiction over the port where longshore work will be performed.
(2) Each employer seeking to use alien crewmembers for longshore work at a particular location in the State of Alaska pursuant to the Alaska exception or where an attestation is required under the automated vessel exception for longshore work to be performed at a particular location in Alaska shall submit, as a first step, an attestation on Form ETA 9033-A, as described in § 655.533 of this part, to ETA at the address of the Seattle regional office as set forth at § 655.532 of this part. The address appears in the instructions to Form ETA 9033-A. ETA shall return the cover form of the accepted attestation to the employer, and, at the same time, shall provide notice of the filing to the DHS office having jurisdiction over the location where longshore work will be performed.
(c)
Complaints.
Complaints concerning misrepresentation in the attestation, failure of the employer to carry out the terms of the attestation, or complaints that an employer is required to file an attestation under the automated vessel exception, may be filed with the Wage and Hour Division, according to the procedures set forth in subpart G of this part. Complaints of “misrepresentation” may include assertions that an employer has attested to the use of alien crewmembers only for a particular activity of longshore work and has thereafter used such alien crewmembers for another activity of longshore work. If the Division determines that the complaint presents reasonable cause to warrant an investigation, the Division shall then investigate, and, where appropriate, after an opportunity for a hearing, assess sanctions and penalties. Subpart G of this part further provides that interested parties may obtain an administrative law judge hearing on the Division's determination after an investigation and may seek the Secretary's review of the administrative law judge's decision. Subpart G of this part also provides that a complainant may request that the Wage and Hour Administrator issue a cease and desist order in the case of either alleged violation(s) of an attestation or longshore work by alien crewmember(s) employed by an employer allegedly not qualified for the claimed automated vessel exception. Upon the receipt of such a request, the Division shall notify the employer, provide an opportunity for a response and an informal meeting, and then rule on the request, which shall be granted if the preponderance of the evidence submitted supports the complainant's position.
[60 FR 3956, 3976, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 35521, June 21, 2006]
§ 655.502
Definitions.
For the purposes of subparts F and G of this part:
Accepted for filing
means that a properly completed attestation on Form ETA 9033, including accompanying documentation for each of the requirements in § 655.510 (d) through (f) of this part, or a properly completed attestation on Form ETA 9033-A, including accompanying documentation for the requirement in § 655.537 of this part in the case of an attestation under the Alaska exception, submitted by the employer or its designated agent or representative has been received and filed by the Employment and Training Administration of the Department of Labor (DOL). (Unacceptable attestations under the
prevailing practice exception are described at § 655.510(g)(2) of this part. Unacceptable attestations under the Alaska exception are described at § 655.538(b) of this part.)
Act
and
INA
mean the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
Activity
means any activity relating to loading cargo; unloading cargo; operation of cargo-related equipment; or handling of mooring lines on the dock when a vessel is made fast or let go.
Administrative law judge
means an official appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor, or such authorized representatives as may be designated to perform any of the functions of the Administrator under subparts F and G of this part.
Administrator, Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC Administrator)
means the primary official of the Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC Administrator), or the OFLC Administrator's designee.
Attestation
means documents submitted by an employer attesting to and providing accompanying documentation to show that, under the prevailing practice exception, the use of alien crewmembers for a particular activity of longshore work at a particular U.S. port is the prevailing practice, and is not during a strike or lockout nor intended to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers; and that notice of the attestation has been provided to the bargaining representative, or, where there is none, to the longshore workers at the local port. Under the Alaska exception, such documents shall show that, before using alien crewmen to perform longshore work, the employer will make bona fide requests for dispatch of United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers and that the employer will employ all such United States longshore workers in response to such a request for dispatch; that the use of alien crewmembers is not intended or designed to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers in the State of Alaska; and that notice of the attestation has been provided to labor organizations recognized as exclusive bargaining representatives of United States longshore workers, contract stevedoring companies, and operators of private docks at which the employer will use longshore workers.
Attesting employer
means an employer who has filed an attestation.
Attorney General
means the chief official of the U.S. Department of Justice or the Attorney General's designee.
Automated vessel
means a vessel equipped with an automated self-unloading conveyor belt or vacuum-actuated system which is utilized for loading or unloading cargo between the vessel and the dock.
Certifying Officer (CO)
means a Department of Labor official, or the CO's designee, who makes determinations about whether or not to grant applications for labor certification. The National Certifying Officer, which is the OFLC Administrator, makes such determinations in the national office of the OFLC.
Chief Administrative Law Judge
means the chief official of the Office of the Administrative Law Judges of the Department of Labor or the Chief Administrative Law Judge's designee.
Contract stevedoring company
means a stevedoring company which is licensed to do business in the State of Alaska and which meets the requirements of section 32 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 932).
Crewmember
means any nonimmigrant alien admitted to the United States to perform services under sec. 101(a)(15)(D)(i) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(D)(i)).
Date of filing
means the date an attestation is
accepted for filing
by ETA.
Department
and
DOL
mean the United States Department of Labor.
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
makes the determination under the Act on whether an employer of alien crewmembers may use such crewmembers for longshore work at a U.S. port.
Division
means the Wage and Hour Division of the Employment Standards Administration, DOL.
Employer
means a person, firm, corporation, or other association or organization, which suffers or permits, or proposes to suffer or permit, alien crewmembers to perform longshore work at a port within the U.S. For purposes of §§ 655.530 through 655.541, which govern the performance of longshore activities by alien crewmembers under the Alaska exception, “employer” includes any agent or representative designated by the employer.
Employment and Training Administration (ETA)
means the agency within the Department of Labor (DOL) which includes the Office of Foreign Labor (OFLC).
Employment Standards Administration (ESA)
means the agency within the Department of Labor (DOL) which includes the Wage and Hour Division.
Lockout
means a labor dispute involving a work stoppage, wherein an employer withholds work from its employees in order to gain a concession from them.
Longshore work
means any activity (except safety and environmental protection work as described in sec. 258(b)(2) of the Act) relating to the loading or unloading of cargo, the operation of cargo related equipment (whether or not integral to the vessel), or the handling of mooring lines on the dock when the vessel is made fast or let go, in the United States or the coastal waters thereof.
Longshore worker
means a U.S. worker who performs longshore work.
Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC)
means the organizational component within the ETA that provides national leadership and policy guidance and develops regulations and procedures to carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary of Labor under the INA concerning alien workers seeking admission to the United States in order to work under the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended.
Port
means a geographic area, either on a seacoast, lake, river or any other navigable body of water, which contains one or more publicly or privately owned terminals, piers, docks, or maritime facilities, which is commonly thought of as a port by other government maritime-related agencies, such as the Maritime Administration. U.S. ports include, but are not limited to, those listed in Appendix A to this subpart.
Qualified and available in sufficient numbers
means the full complement of qualified longshore workers needed to perform the longshore activity, as determined by industry standards in the State of Alaska, including safety considerations.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's designee.
Strike
means a labor dispute wherein employees engage in a concerted stoppage of work (including stoppage by reason of the expiration of a collective-bargaining agreement) or engage in any concerted slowdown or other concerted interruption of operations.
Unanticipated emergency
means an unexpected and unavoidable situation, such as one involving severe weather conditions, natural disaster, or mechanical breakdown, where cargo must be immediately loaded on, or unloaded from, a vessel.
United States
is defined at 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(38).
United States (U.S.) worker
means a worker who is a U.S. citizen, a U.S. national, a permanent resident alien, or any other worker legally permitted to work indefinitely in the United States.
[60 FR 3956, 3976, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 35520, June 21, 2006]
§ 655.510
Employer attestations.
(a)
Who may submit attestations?
An employer (or the employer's designated U.S. agent or representative) seeking to employ alien crewmembers for a particular activity of longshore work under the prevailing practice exception shall submit an attestation, provided there is not in effect in the local port any collective bargaining agreement covering at least 30 percent of the longshore workers. An attestation is required for each port at which the employer intends to use alien crewmembers for longshore work. The attestation shall include: A completed Form ETA 9033, which shall be signed by the employer (or the employer's designated agent or representative); and
facts and evidence prescribed in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. This § 655.510 shall not apply in the case of longshore work performed at a particular location in the State of Alaska. The procedures governing the filing of attestations under the Alaska exception are set forth at §§ 655.530 through 655.541.
(b)
Where and when should attestations be submitted?
(1) Attestations must be submitted, by U.S. mail, private carrier, or facsimile transmission to the U.S. Department of Labor office(s) which are designated by the OFLC Administrator. Attestations must be received and date-stamped by DOL at least 14 calendar days prior to the date of the first performance of the intended longshore activity, and shall be accepted for filing or returned by ETA in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section within 14 calendar days of the date received by ETA. An attestation which is accepted by ETA solely because it was not reviewed within 14 days is subject to subsequent invalidation pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section. Every employer filing an attestation shall have an agent or representative with a United States address. Such address shall be clearly indicated on the Form ETA 9033. In order to ensure that an attestation has been accepted for filing prior to the date of the performance of the longshore activity, employers are advised to take mailing time into account to make sure that ETA receives the attestation at least 14 days prior to the first performance of the longshore activity.
(2)
Unanticipated Emergencies.
ETA may accept for filing attestations received after the 14-day deadline when due to an unanticipated emergency, as defined in § 655.502 of this part. When an employer is claiming an unanticipated emergency, it shall submit documentation to support such a claim. ETA shall then make a determination on the validity of the claim, and shall accept the attestation for filing or return it in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. ETA shall in no case accept an attestation received later than the date of the first performance of the activity.
(c)
What should be submitted?
—(1)
Form ETA 9033 with accompanying documentation.
For each port, a completed and dated original Form ETA 9033, or facsimile transmission thereof, containing the required attestation elements and the original signature of the employer (or the employer's designated agent or representative) shall be submitted, along with two copies of the completed, signed, and dated Form ETA 9033. (If the attestation is submitted by facsimile transmission, the attestation containing the original signature shall be maintained at the U.S. business address of the employer's designated agent or representative). Copies of Form ETA 9033 are available at the National Processing Centers and at the National Office. In addition, the employer shall submit two sets of all facts and evidence to show compliance with each of the attestation elements as prescribed by the regulatory standards in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. In the case of an investigation pursuant to subpart G of this part, the employer shall have the burden of proof to establish the validity of each attestation. The employer shall maintain in its records at the office of its U.S. agent, for a period of at least 3 years from the date of filing, sufficient documentation to meet its burden of proof, which shall at a minimum include the documentation described in this § 655.510, and shall make the documents available to Department of Labor officials upon request.
Whenever any document is submitted to a Federal agency or retained in the employer's records pursuant to this part, the document either shall be in the English language or shall be accompanied by a written translation into the English language certified by the translator as to the accuracy of the translation and his/her competency to translate.
(2)
Statutory precondition regarding collective bargaining agreements.
(i) The employer may file an attestation only when there is no collective bargaining agreement in effect in the port covering 30 percent or more of the longshore workers in the port. The employer shall attest on the Form ETA 9033 that no such collective bargaining agreement exists at the port at the time that the attestation is filed.
(ii) The employer is not required to submit with the Form ETA 9033 documentation substantiating that there is no collective bargaining agreement in effect in the port covering 30 percent or more of the longshore workers. If a complaint is filed which presents reasonable cause to believe that such an agreement exists, the Department shall conduct an investigation. In such an investigation, the employer shall have the burden of proving that no such collective bargaining agreement exists.
(3)
Ports for which attestations may be filed.
Employers may file an attestation for a port which is listed in appendix A (U.S. Seaports) to this subpart. Employers may also file an attestation for a particular location not in appendix A to this subpart if additional facts and evidence are submitted with the attestation to demonstrate that the location is a port, meeting all of the criteria as defined by § 655.502 of this part.
(4)
Attestation elements.
The attestation elements referenced in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are mandated by sec. 258(c)(1)(B) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1288(c)(1)(B)). Section 258(c)(1)(B) of the Act requires employers who seek to have alien crewmembers engage in a longshore activity to attest as follows:
(i) The performance of the activity by alien crewmembers is permitted under the prevailing practice of the particular port as of the date of filing of the attestation;
(ii) The use of the alien crewmembers for such activity is not during a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute, and is not intended or designed to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers in the local port; and
(iii) Notice of the attestation has been provided by the owner, agent, consignee, master, or commanding officer to the bargaining representative of longshore workers in the local port, or, where there is no such bargaining representative, notice has been provided to longshore workers employed at the local port.
(d)
The first attestation element: prevailing practice.
For an employer to be in compliance with the first attestation element, it is required to have been the prevailing practice during the 12-month period preceding the filing of the attestation, for a particular activity of longshore work at the particular port to be performed by alien crewmembers. For each port, a prevailing practice can exist for any of four different types of longshore work: loading of cargo, unloading of cargo, operation of cargo-related equipment, or handling of mooring lines. It is thus possible that at a particular port it is the prevailing practice for alien crewmembers to unload vessels but not the prevailing practice to load them. An employer shall indicate on the attestation form which of the four longshore activities it is claiming is the prevailing practice for such work to be performed by alien crewmembers.
(1)
Establishing a prevailing practice.
(i) In establishing that a particular activity of longshore work is the prevailing practice at a particular port, an employer shall submit facts and evidence to show that in the 12-month period preceding the filing of the attestation, one of the following conditions existed:
(A) Over fifty percent of vessels docking at the port used alien crewmembers for the activity; or
(B) Alien crewmembers made up over fifty percent of the workers in the port who engaged in the activity.
(ii)
Prevailing practice after Secretary of State determination of non-reciprocity.
Section 258(d) of the Act provides a reciprocity exception (separate from the prevailing practice exception) to the prohibition on performance of longshore work by alien crewmembers in U.S. ports. However, this reciprocity exception becomes nonapplicable where the Secretary of State determines that, for a particular activity of longshore work, a particular country (by law, regulation, or practice) prohibits such activity by U.S. crewmembers in its ports. When the Secretary of State places a country on the non-reciprocity list (which means, for the purposes of this section,
Prohibitions on longshore work by U.S. nationals; listing by country
at 22 CFR 89.1), crewmembers on vessels from that country (that is, vessels that are registered in that country or vessels whose majority ownership interest is held by nationals of that country) are not permitted to perform longshore work in U.S. waters, absent
applicability of some exception other than the reciprocity exception. The Secretary of State's determination has the following effects in the establishment of a prevailing practice for a particular longshore activity at a particular U.S. port for purposes of the prevailing practice exception.
(A) An employer from any country, other than the country which is placed on the non-reciprocity list, may include the longshore activities performed by alien crewmembers on all vessels in establishing the prevailing practice for a particular longshore activity in a particular port.
(B) An employer from a country which is placed on the non-reciprocity list may file an attestation for the prevailing practice exception under the standards and requirements established in this subpart F (except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(C) of this section), provided that the attestation is filed at least 12 months after the date on which the employer's country is placed on the list.
(C) An employer from a country which is placed on the non-reciprocity list may file an attestation pursuant to the prevailing practice exception earlier than 12 months from the date on which the employer's country is placed on the list, except that the following restrictions shall apply to such attestation:
(
1
) The employer shall submit facts and evidence to show that, for the 12-month period preceding the date of the attestation, the use of alien crewmembers to perform a particular activity of longshore work was permitted by the prevailing practice in the port (as defined in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section) without considering or including such activity by crewmembers on vessels from the employer's country; or
(
2
) The employer shall submit facts and evidence (including data on activities performed by crewmembers on vessels from the employer's country) to show that the use of alien crewmembers to perform a particular activity of longshore work was permitted by the prevailing practice in the port (as defined in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section) for one of two periods—
(
i
) For the employer whose country has not previously been on the non-reciprocity list, the period is the continuous 12-month period prior to May 28, 1991 (the effective date of section 258 of the Act); or
(
ii
) For the employer whose country was at some time on the non-reciprocity list, but was subsequently removed from the non-reciprocity list and then restored to the non-reciprocity list (on one or more occasions), the period is the last continuous 12-month period during which the employer's country was not under the reciprocity exception (that is, was listed on the non-reciprocity list).
(
iii
) For purposes of this paragraph (d)(1):
(A) “Workers in the port engaged in the activity” means any person who performed the activity in any calendar day;
(B) Vessels shall be counted each time they dock at the particular port):
(C) Vessels exempt from section 258 of the INA for safety and environmental protection shall not be included in counting the number of vessels which dock at the port (see Department of Transportation Regulations); and
(D) Automated vessels shall not be included in counting the number of vessels which dock at the port. For establishing a prevailing practice under the automated vessel exception see § 655.520 of this part.
(2)
Documentation.
In assembling the facts and evidence required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the employer may consult with the port authority which has jurisdiction over the local port, the collective bargaining representative(s) of longshore workers at the local port, other employers, or any other entity which is familiar with the practices at the port. Such documentation shall include a written summary of a survey of the experience of shipmasters who entered the local port in the previous year; or a letter, affidavit, or other written statement from an appropriate local port authority regarding the use of alien crewmembers to perform the longshore activity at the port in the previous year; or other documentation of comparable weight. Written statements from collective bargaining representatives and/or shipping agents with direct knowledge of
practices regarding the use of alien crewmembers in the local port may also be pertinent. Such documentation shall accompany the Form ETA 9033, and any underlying documentation which supports the employer's burden of proof shall be maintained in the employer's records at the office of the U.S. agent as required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(e)
The second attestation element: no strike or lockout; no intention or design to influence bargaining representative election.
(1) The employer shall attest that, at the time of submitting the attestation, there is not a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute covering the employer's activity, and that it will not use alien crewmembers during a strike or lockout after filing the attestation. The employer shall also attest that the employment of such aliens is not intended or designed to influence an election for a bargaining representative for workers in the local port. Labor disputes for purposes of this attestation element relate only to those involving longshore workers at the port of intended employment. This attestation element applies to strikes and lockouts and elections of bargaining representatives at the local port where the use of alien crewmembers for longshore work is intended.
(2)
Documentation.
As documentation to substantiate the requirement in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, an employer may submit a statement of the good faith efforts made to determine whether there is a strike or lockout at the particular port, as, for example, by contacting the port authority or the collective bargaining representative for longshore workers at the particular port.
(f)
The third attestation element: notice of filing.
The employer of alien crewmembers shall attest that at the time of filing the attestation, notice of filing has been provided to the bargaining representative of the longshore workers in the local port, or, where there is no such bargaining representative, notice of the filing has been provided to longshore workers employed at the local port through posting in conspicuous locations and through other appropriate means.
(1)
Notification of bargaining representative.
No later than the date the attestation is received by DOL to be considered for filing, the employer of alien crewmembers shall notify the bargaining representative (if any) of longshore workers at the local port that the attestation is being submitted to DOL. The notice shall include a copy of the Form ETA 9033, shall state the activity(ies) for which the attestation is submitted, and shall state in that notice that the attestation and accompanying documentation are available at the national office of ETA for review by interested parties. The employer may have its owner, agent, consignee, master, or commanding officer provide such notice. Notices under this paragraph (f)(1) shall include the following statement: “Complaints alleging misrepresentation of material facts in the attestation and/or failure to comply with the terms of the attestation may be filed with any office of the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor.”
(2)
Posting notice where there is no bargaining representative.
If there is no bargaining representative of longshore workers at the local port when the employer submits an attestation to ETA, the employer shall provide written notice to the port authority for distribution to the public on request. In addition, the employer shall post one or more written notices at the local port, stating that the attestation with accompanying documentation has been submitted, the activity(ies) for which the attestation has been submitted, and that the attestation and accompanying documentation are available at the national office of ETA for review by interested parties. Such posted notice shall be clearly visible and unobstructed, and shall be posted in conspicuous places where the longshore workers readily can read the posted notice on the way to or from their duties. Appropriate locations for posting such notices include locations in the immediate proximity of mandatory Fair Labor Standards Act wage and hour notices and Occupational Safety and Health Act occupational safety and health notices. The notice shall include a copy of the Form ETA 9033 filed with
DOL, shall provide information concerning the availability of supporting documents for examination at the national office of ETA, and shall include the following statement: “Complaints alleging misrepresentation of material facts in the attestation and/or failure to comply with the terms of the attestation may be filed with any office of the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor.”
(3)
Documentation.
The employer shall provide a statement setting forth the name and address of the person to whom the notice was provided and where and when the notice was posted and shall attach a copy of the notice.
(g)
Actions on attestations submitted for filing.
Once an attestation has been received from an employer, a determination shall be made by the Certifying Officer whether to accept the attestation for filing or return it. The Certifying Officer may request additional explanation and/or documentation from the employer in making this determination. An attestation which is properly filled out and which includes accompanying documentation for each of the requirements set forth at § 655.510(d) through (f) shall be accepted for filing by ETA on the date it is signed by the Certifying Officer unless it falls within one of the categories set forth in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. Once an attestation is accepted for filing, ETA shall then follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Upon acceptance of the employer's attestation by ETA, the attestation and accompanying documentation will be forwarded and shall be available in a timely manner for public examination at the ETA national office. ETA shall not consider information contesting an attestation received by ETA prior to the determination to accept or return the attestation for filing. Such information shall not be made part of ETA's administrative record on the attestation, but shall be referred to ESA to be processed as a complaint pursuant to subpart G of this part if the attestation is accepted by ETA for filing.
(1)
Acceptance.
(i) If the attestation is properly filled out and includes accompanying documentation for each of the requirements at § 655.510(d) through (f), and does not fall within one of the categories set forth at paragraph (g)(2) of this section, ETA shall accept the attestation for filing, provide notification to the DHS office having jurisdiction over the port where longshore work will be performed, and return to the employer, or the employer's agent or representative at a U.S. address, one copy of the attestation form submitted by the employer, with ETA's acceptance indicated thereon. The employer may then use alien crewmembers for the particular activity of longshore work at the U.S. port cited in the attestation in accordance with DHS regulations.
(ii) DOL is not the guarantor of the accuracy, truthfulness or adequacy of an attestation accepted for filing.
(2)
Unacceptable attestations.
ETA shall not accept an attestation for filing and shall return such attestation to the employer, or the employer's agent or representative at a U.S. address, when one of the following conditions exists:
(i) When the Form ETA 9033 is not properly filled out. Examples of improperly filled out Form ETA 9033's include instances where the employer has neglected to check all the necessary boxes, or where the employer has failed to include the name of the port where it intends to use the alien crewmembers for longshore work, or where the employer has named a port that is not listed in appendix A and has failed to submit facts and evidence to support a showing that the location is a port as defined by § 655.502, or when the employer has failed to sign the attestation or to designate an agent in the United States;
(ii) When the Form ETA 9033 with accompanying documentation is not received by ETA at least 14 days prior to the date of performance of the first activity indicated on the Form ETA 9033; unless the employer is claiming an unanticipated emergency, has included documentation which supports such claim, and ETA has found the claim to be valid;
(iii) When the Form ETA 9033 does not include accompanying documentation for each of the requirements set forth at § 655.510 (d) through (f);
(iv) When the accompanying documentation required by paragraph (c) of this section submitted by the employer, on its face, is inconsistent with the requirements set forth at § 655.510 (d) through (f). Examples of such a situation include instances where the Form ETA 9033 pertains to one port and the accompanying documentation to another; where the Form ETA 9033 pertains to one activity of longshore work and the accompanying documentation obviously refers to another; or where the documentation clearly indicates that only thirty percent, instead of the required fifty percent, of the activity attested to is performed by alien crewmembers;
(v) When the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, has notified ETA, in writing, after an investigation pursuant to subpart G of this part, that the particular activity of longshore work which the employer has attested is the prevailing practice at a particular port, is not, in fact, the prevailing practice at the particular port;
(vi) When the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, has notified ETA, in writing, that a cease and desist order has been issued pursuant to subpart G of this part, with respect to the attesting employer's performance of the particular activity and port, in violation of a previously accepted attestation;
(vii) When the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, has notified ETA, in writing, after an investigation pursuant to subpart G of this part, that the particular employer has misrepresented or failed to comply with an attestation previously submitted and accepted for filing, but in no case for a period of more than one year after the date of the Administrator's notice and provided that DHS has not advised ETA that the prohibition is in effect for a lesser period; or
(viii) When the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, has notified ETA, in writing, that the employer has failed to comply with any penalty, sanction, or other remedy assessed in a final agency action following an investigation by the Wage and Hour Division pursuant to subpart G of this part.
(3)
Resubmission.
If the attestation is not accepted for filing pursuant to the categories set forth in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, ETA shall return to the employer, or the employer's agent or representative, at a U.S. address, the attestation form and accompanying documentation submitted by the employer. ETA shall notify the employer, in writing, of the reason(s) that the attestation is unacceptable. When an attestation is found to be unacceptable pursuant to paragraphs (g)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section, the employer may resubmit the attestation with the proper documentation. When an attestation is found to be unacceptable pursuant to paragraphs (g)(2) (v) through (viii) of this section and returned, such action shall be the final decision of the Secretary of Labor.
(h)
Effective date and validity of filed attestations.
An attestation is filed and effective as of the date it is accepted and signed by the Certifying Officer. Such attestation is valid for the 12-month period beginning on the date of acceptance for filing, unless suspended or invalidated pursuant to subpart G of this part or paragraph (i) of this section. The filed attestation expires at the end of the 12-month period of validity.
(i)
Suspension or invalidation of filed attestations.
Suspension or invalidation of an attestation may result from enforcement action(s) under subpart G of this part (
i.e.,
investigation(s) conducted by the Administrator or cease and desist order(s) issued by the Administrator regarding the employer's misrepresentation in or failure to carry out its attestation); or from a discovery by ETA that it made an error in accepting the attestation because such attestation falls within one of the categories set forth in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(1)
Result of Wage and Hour Division action.
Upon the determination of a violation under subpart G of this part, the Administrator shall, pursuant to § 655.660(b), notify the DHS of the violation and of the Administrator's notice to ETA.
(2)
Result of ETA action.
If, after accepting an attestation for filing, ETA finds that the attestation is unacceptable because it falls within one of the categories set forth at paragraph (g)(2) of this section, and as a result, ETA suspends or invalidates the attestation,
ETA shall notify the DHS of such suspension or invalidation and shall return a copy of the attestation form to the employer, or the employer's agent or representative, at a U.S. address. ETA shall notify the employer, in writing, of the reason(s) that the attestation is suspended or invalidated. When an attestation is found to be suspended or invalidated pursuant to paragraphs (g)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section, the employer may resubmit the attestation with the proper documentation. When an attestation is suspended or invalidated because it falls within one of the categories in paragraphs (g)(2) (v) through (viii) of this section, such action shall be the final decision of the Secretary of Labor, except as set forth in subpart G of this part.
(j)
Withdrawal of accepted attestations.
(1) An employer who has submitted an attestation which has been accepted for filing may withdraw such attestation at any time before the 12-month period of its validity terminates, unless the Administrator has found reasonable cause under subpart G to commence an investigation of the particular attestation. Such withdrawal may be advisable, for example, when the employer learns that the particular activity(ies) of longshore work which it has attested is the prevailing practice to perform with alien crewmembers may not, in fact, have been the prevailing practice at the particular port at the time of filing. Requests for such withdrawals shall be in writing and shall be directed to the Certifying Officer.
(2) Withdrawal of an attestation shall not affect an employer's liability with respect to any failure to meet the conditions attested to which took place before the withdrawal, or for misrepresentations in an attestation. However, if an employer has not yet performed the particular longshore activity(ies) at the port in question, the Administrator will not find reasonable cause to investigate unless it is alleged, and there is reasonable cause to believe, that the employer has made misrepresentations in the attestation or documentation thereof, or that the employer has not in fact given the notice attested to.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control No. 1205-0309)
[60 FR 3956, 3976, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 35520, June 21, 2006]
§ 655.520
Special provisions regarding automated vessels.
In general, an attestation is not required in the case of a particular activity of longshore work consisting of the use of automated self-unloading conveyor belt or vacuum-actuated systems on a vessel. The legislation creates a rebuttable presumption that the use of alien crewmembers for the operation of such automated systems is the prevailing practice. In order to overcome such presumption, it must be shown by the preponderance of the evidence submitted by any interested party, that the use of alien crewmembers for such activity is not the prevailing practice. Longshore work involving the use of such equipment shall be exempt from the attestation requirement only if the activity consists of using that equipment. If the automated equipment is not used in the particular activity of longshore work, an attestation is required as described under § 655.510 of this part if it is the prevailing practice in the port to use alien crewmembers for this work, except that in all cases, where an attestation is required for longshore work to be performed at a particular location in the State of Alaska, an employer shall file such attestation under the Alaska exception pursuant to §§ 655.530 through 655.541 on Form ETA 9033-A. When automated equipment is used in the particular activity of longshore work, an attestation is required only if the Administrator finds, based on a preponderance of the evidence which may be submitted by any interested party, that the performance of the particular activity of longshore work is not the prevailing practice at the port, or was during a strike or lockout or intended to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers in the local port, or if the Administrator issues a cease and desist order against use of the automated equipment without such attestation.
(a)
Procedure when attestation is required.
If it is determined pursuant to subpart G of this part that an attestation is required for longshore work consisting of the use of automated equipment at a location other than in the State of Alaska, the employer shall comply with all the requirements set forth at § 655.510 of this part except paragraph (d) of § 655.510. In lieu of complying with § 655.510(d) of this part, the employer shall comply with paragraph (b) of this section. If it is determined pursuant to subpart G of this part that an attestation is required for longshore work consisting of the use of automated equipment at a particular location in the State of Alaska, the employer shall comply with all the requirements set forth at §§ 655.530 through 655.541 of this part.
(b)
The first attestation element: prevailing practice for automated vessels.
For an employer to be in compliance with the first attestation element, it is required to have been the prevailing practice that over fifty percent (as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of a particular activity of longshore work which was performed through the use of automated self-unloading conveyor belt or vacuum-actuated equipment at the particular port during the 12-month period preceding the filing of the attestation, was performed by alien crewmembers. For purposes of this paragraph (b), only automated vessels shall be included in counting the number of vessels which dock at the port.
(1)
Establishing a prevailing practice.
(i) In establishing that the use of alien crewmembers to perform a particular activity of longshore work consisting of the use of self-unloading conveyor belt or vacuum-actuated systems on a vessel is the prevailing practice at a particular port, an employer shall submit facts and evidence to show that in the 12-month period preceding the filing of the attestation, one of the following conditions existed:
(A) Over fifty percent of the automated vessels docking at the port used alien crewmembers for the activity (for purposes of this paragraph (b)(1), a vessel shall be counted each time it docks at the particular port); or
(B) Alien crewmembers made up over fifty percent of the workers who performed the activity with respect to such automated vessels.
(ii)
Prevailing practice after Secretary of State determination of non-reciprocity.
Section 258(d) of the Act provides a reciprocity exception (separate from the prevailing practice exception) to the prohibition on performance of longshore work by alien crewmembers in U.S. ports. However, this reciprocity exception becomes nonapplicable where the Secretary of State determines that, for a particular activity of longshore work, a particular country (by law, regulation, or practice) prohibits such activity by U.S. crewmembers in its ports. When the Secretary of State places a country on the non-reciprocity list (which means, for the purposes of this section,
Prohibitions on longshore work by U.S. nationals; listing by country
at 22 CFR 89.1), crewmembers on vessels from that country (that is, vessels that are registered in that country or vessels whose majority ownership interest is held by nationals of that country) are not permitted to perform longshore work in U.S. waters, absent applicability of some exception other than the reciprocity exception. The Secretary of State's determination has the following effects in the establishment of a prevailing practice for a particular longshore activity at a particular U.S. port for purposes of the prevailing practice exception.
(A) An employer from any country, other than the country which is placed on the non-reciprocity list, may include the longshore activities performed by alien crewmembers on all vessels in establishing the prevailing practice for a particular longshore activity in a particular port.
(B) An employer from a country which is placed on the non-reciprocity list may file an attestation for the prevailing practice exception under the standards and requirements established in this subpart F (except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section), provided that the attestation is filed at least 12 months after the date on which the employer's country is placed on the list.
(C) An employer from a country which is placed on the non-reciprocity
list may file an attestation pursuant to the prevailing practice exception earlier than 12 months from the date on which the employer's country is placed on the list, except that the following restrictions shall apply to such attestation:
(
1
) The employer shall submit facts and evidence to show that, for the 12-month period preceding the date of the attestation, the use of alien crewmembers to perform a particular activity of longshore work was permitted by the prevailing practice in the port (as defined in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section) without considering or including such activity by crewmembers on vessels from the employer's country; or
(
2
) The employer shall submit facts and evidence (including data on activities performed by crewmembers on vessels from the employer's country) to show that the use of alien crewmembers to perform a particular activity of longshore work was permitted by the prevailing practice in the port (as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) for one of two periods—
(
i
) For the employer whose country has not previously been on the non-reciprocity list, the period is the continuous 12-month period prior to May 28, 1991 (the effective date of section 258 of the Act); or
(
ii
) For the employer whose country was at some time on the non-reciprocity list, but was subsequently removed from the non-reciprocity list and then restored to the non-reciprocity list (on one or more occasions), the period is the last continuous 12-month period during which the employer's country was not under the reciprocity exception (that is, was listed on the non-reciprocity list).
(2)
Documentation.
In assembling the documentation described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the employer may consult with the port authority which has jurisdiction over the local port, the collective bargaining representative(s) of longshore workers at the local port, other employers, or any other entity which is familiar with the practices at the port. The documentation shall include a written summary of a survey of the experience of shipmasters who entered the local port in the previous year; or a letter, affidavit, or other written statement from an appropriate local port authority regarding the use of alien crewmembers to perform the longshore activity at the port in the previous year; or other documentation of comparable weight. Written statements from collective bargaining representatives and/or shipping agents with direct knowledge of practices regarding the use of alien crewmembers may also be pertinent. Such documentation shall accompany the Form ETA 9033, and any underlying documentation which supports the employer's burden of proof shall be maintained in the employer's records at the office of the U.S. agent as required under § 655.510(c)(1) of this part.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control No. 1205-0309)

# Alaska Exception
§ 655.530
Special provisions regarding the performance of longshore activities at locations in the State of Alaska.
Applicability.
Section § 655.510 of this part shall not apply to longshore work performed at locations in the State of Alaska. The performance of longshore work by alien crewmembers at locations in the State of Alaska shall instead be governed by §§ 655.530 through 655.541. The use of alien crewmembers to perform longshore work in Alaska consisting of the use of an automated self-unloading conveyor belt or vacuum-actuated system on a vessel shall continue to be governed by the provisions of § 655.520 of this part, except that, if the Administrator finds, based on a preponderance of the evidence which may be submitted by any interested party, that an attestation is required because the performance of the particular activity of longshore work is not the prevailing practice at the location in the State of Alaska, or was during a strike or lockout or intended to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers at that location, or if the Administrator issues a cease and desist order against use of the automated equipment without such an attestation, the required attestation shall be filed pursuant to the Alaska exception at §§ 655.530 through
655.541 and not the prevailing practice exception at § 655.510.
§ 655.531
Who may submit attestations for locations in Alaska?
In order to use alien crewmembers to perform longshore activities at a particular location in the State of Alaska an employer shall submit an attestation on Form ETA 9033-A. As noted at § 655.502, “Definitions,” for purposes of §§ 655.530 through 655.541, which govern the performance of longshore activities by alien crewmembers under the Alaska exception, “employer” includes any agent or representative designated by the employer. An employer may file a single attestation for multiple locations in the State of Alaska.
§ 655.532
Where and when should attestations be submitted for locations in Alaska?
(a) Attestations shall be submitted, by U.S. mail, private carrier, or facsimile transmission to the U.S. Department of Labor regional office of the Employment and Training Administration in Seattle, Washington. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, attestations shall be received and date-stamped by the Department at least 30 calendar days prior to the date of the first performance of the longshore activity. The attestation shall be accepted for filing or returned by ETA in accordance with § 655.538 within 14 calendar days of the date received by ETA. An attestation which is accepted by ETA solely because it was not reviewed within 14 days is subject to subsequent invalidation pursuant to § 655.540 of this part. An employer filing an attestation shall have an agent or representative with a United States address. Such address shall be clearly indicated on the Form ETA 9033-A. In order to ensure that an attestation has been accepted for filing prior to the date of the first performance of the longshore activity, employers are advised to take mailing time into account to make sure that ETA receives the attestation at least 30 days prior to the first performance of the longshore activity.
(b)
Late filings.
ETA may accept for filing attestations received after the 30-day deadline where the employer could not have reasonably anticipated the need to file an attestation for the particular location at that time. When an employer states that it could not have reasonably anticipated the need to file the attestation at that time, it shall submit documentation to ETA to support such a claim. ETA shall then make a determination on the validity of the claim and shall accept the attestation for filing or return it in accordance with § 655.538 of this part. ETA in no case shall accept an attestation received less than 24 hours prior to the first performance of the activity.
§ 655.533
What should be submitted for locations in Alaska?
(a)
Form ETA 9033-A with accompanying documentation.
A completed and dated original Form ETA 9033-A, or facsimile transmission thereof, containing the required attestation elements and the original signature of the employer or the employer's agent or designated representative, along with two copies of the completed, signed, and dated Form ETA 9033-A shall be submitted to ETA. (If the attestation is submitted by facsimile transmission, the attestation containing the original signature shall be maintained at the U.S. business address of the employer's designated agent or representative). Copies of Form ETA 9033-A are available at the National Processing Centers and at the National office. In addition, the employer shall submit two sets of facts and evidence to show compliance with the fourth attestation element at § 655.537 of this part. In the case of an investigation pursuant to subpart G of this part, the employer has the burden of proof to establish the validity of each attestation. The employer shall maintain in its records at the office of its U.S. agent, for a period of at least 3 years from the date of filing, sufficient documentation to meet its burden of proof, which shall at a minimum include the documentation described in §§ 655.530 through 655.541, and shall make the documents available to Department of Labor officials upon request. Whenever any document is submitted to a Federal agency or retained in the employer's records pursuant to this part, the document shall either be in the English language or shall
be accompanied by a written translation into the English language certified by the translator as to the accuracy of the translation and his/her competency to translate.
(b)
Attestation elements.
The attestation elements referenced in §§ 655.534 through 655.537 of this part are mandated by Sec. 258(d)(1) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1288(d)(1)). Section 258(d)(1) of the Act requires employers who seek to have alien crewmembers engage in longshore activity at locations in the State of Alaska to attest as follows:
(1) The employer will make a bona fide request for United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers to perform the activity at the particular time and location from the parties to whom notice has been provided under § 655.537(a)(1) (ii) and (iii), except that:
(i) Wherever two or more contract stevedoring companies have signed a joint collective bargaining agreement with a single labor organization recognized as an exclusive bargaining representative of United States longshore workers within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 141
et seq.
), the employer may request longshore workers from only one such contract stevedoring company, and
(ii) A request for longshore workers to an operator of a private dock may be made only for longshore work to be performed at that dock and only if the operator meets the requirements of section 32 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 932);
(2) The employer will employ all United States longshore workers made available in response to the request made pursuant to § 655.534(a)(1) who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers and who are needed to perform the longshore activity at the particular time and location to which the employer has attested;
(3) The use of alien crewmembers for such activity is not intended or designed to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers in the State of Alaska; and
(4) Notice of the attestation has been provided to:
(i) Labor organizations which have been recognized as exclusive bargaining representatives of United States longshore workers within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 141
et seq.
) and which make available or intend to make available workers to the particular location where the longshore work is to be performed;
(ii) Contract stevedoring companies which employ or intend to employ United States longshore workers at that location; and
(iii) Operators of private docks at which the employer will use longshore workers.
[60 FR 3956, 3976, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 35520, June 21, 2006]
§ 655.534
The first attestation element for locations in Alaska: Bona fide request for dispatch of United States longshore workers.
(a) The first attestation element shall be satisfied when the employer signs Form ETA 9033-A, attesting that, before using alien crewmembers to perform longshore work during the validity period of the attestation, the employer will make a bona fide request for United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers to perform the specified longshore activity from the parties to whom notice is provided under § 655.537(a)(1) (ii) and (iii). Although an employer is required to provide notification of filing to labor organizations recognized as exclusive bargaining representatives of United States longshore workers pursuant to § 655.537(a)(1)(i) of this part, an employer need not request dispatch of United States longshore workers directly from such parties. The requests for dispatch of United States longshore workers pursuant to this section shall be directed to contract stevedoring companies which employ or intend to employ United States longshore workers at that location, and to operators of private docks at which the employer will use longshore workers. An employer is not required to request dispatch of United States longshore workers from private dock operators or contract stevedoring companies which do not meet the requirements of section 32 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 932) or, in the case of
contract stevedoring companies, which are not licensed to do business in the State of Alaska.
(1) Wherever two or more contract stevedoring companies have signed a joint collective bargaining agreement with a single qualified labor organization, the employer may request longshore workers from only one of such contract stevedoring companies. A qualified labor organization is one which has been recognized as an exclusive bargaining representative of United States longshore workers within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 141
et seq.
) and which makes available or intends to make available workers to the particular location where the longshore work is to be performed.
(2) A request for longshore workers to an operator of a private dock may be made only for longshore work to be performed at that dock.
(3) An employer shall not be required to request longshore workers from a party if that party has notified the employer in writing that it does not intend to make available United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers to the time and location at which the longshore work is to be performed.
(4) A party that has provided such written notice to the employer under paragraph (a)(3) of this section may subsequently notify the employer in writing that it is prepared to make available United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers to perform the longshore activity at the time and location where the longshore work is to be performed. In that event, the employer's obligations to that party under §§ 655.534 and 655.535 of this part shall recommence 60 days after its receipt of such notice.
(5) When a party has provided written notice to the employer under paragraph (a)(3) of this section that it does not intend to dispatch United States longshore workers to perform the longshore work attested to by the employer, such notice shall expire upon the earliest of the following events:
(i) When the terms of such notice specify an expiration date at which time the employer's obligation to that party under §§ 655.534 and 655.535 of this part shall recommence;
(ii) When retracted pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section; or
(iii) Upon the expiration of the validity of the attestation.
(b)
Documentation.
To substantiate the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, an employer shall develop and maintain documentation to meet the employer's burden of proof under the first attestation element. The employer shall retain records of all requests for dispatch of United States longshore workers to perform the longshore work attested to. Such documentation shall consist of letters, telephone logs, facsimiles or other memoranda to show that, before using alien crewmembers to perform longshore work, the employer made a bona fide request for United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers to perform the longshore activity. At a minimum, such documentation shall include the date the request was made, the name and telephone number of the particular individual(s) to whom the request for dispatch was directed, and the number and composition of full work units requested. Further, whenever any party has provided written notice to the employer under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the employer shall retain the notice for the period of time specified in § 655.533 of this part, and, if appropriate, any subsequent notice by that party that it is prepared to make available United States longshore workers at the times and locations attested to.
§ 655.535
The second attestation element for locations in Alaska: Employment of United States longshore workers.
(a) The second attestation element shall be satisfied when the employer signs Form ETA 9033-A, attesting that during the validity period of the attestation, the employer will employ all United States longshore workers made available in response to the request for dispatch who, in compliance with applicable industry standards in the State of Alaska, including safety considerations, are qualified and available in sufficient numbers and are needed to perform the longshore activity at the
particular time and location attested to.
(1) In no case shall an employer filing an attestation be required to hire less than a full work unit of United States longshore workers needed to perform the longshore activity nor be required to provide overnight accommodations for the longshore workers while employed. For purposes of this section, “full work unit” means the full complement of longshore workers needed to perform the longshore activity, as determined by industry standards in the State of Alaska, including safety considerations. Where the makeup of a full work unit is covered by one or more collective bargaining agreements in effect at the time and location where longshore work is to be performed, the provisions of such agreement(s) shall be deemed to be in conformance with industry standards in the State of Alaska.
(2) In no case shall an employer be required to provide transportation to the vessel where the longshore work is to be performed, except where:
(i) Surface transportation is available; for purposes of this section, “surface transportation” means a tugboat or other vessel which is appropriately insured, operated by licensed personnel, and capable of safely transporting U.S. longshore workers from shore to a vessel on which longshore work is to be performed;
(ii) Such transportation may be safely accomplished; and
(iii)(A) Travel time to the vessel does not exceed one-half hour each way; and
(B) Travel distance to the vessel from the point of embarkation does not exceed 5 miles; for purposes of this section, “point of embarkation” means a dock or landing at which U.S. longshore workers may be safely boarded for transport from shore to a vessel on which longshore work is to be performed; or
(C) In the cases of Wide Bay, Alaska, and Klawock/Craig, Alaska, travel time does not exceed 45 minutes each way and travel distance to the vessel from the point of embarkation does not exceed 7.5 miles, unless the party responding to the request for dispatch agrees to lesser time and distance specifications.
(3) If a United States longshore worker is capable of getting to and from the vessel where longshore work is to be performed when the vessel is beyond the time and distance limitations specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, and where all of the other criteria governing the employment of United States longshore workers under this subpart are met (e.g., “qualified and available in sufficient numbers”), the employer is still obligated to employ the worker to perform the longshore activity. In such instance, however, the employer shall not be required to provide such transportation nor to reimburse the longshore worker for the cost incurred in transport to and from the vessel.
(4) Where an employer is required to provide transportation to the vessel because it is within the time and distance limitations specified in (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the employer also shall be required to provide return transportation to the point of embarkation.
(b)
Documentation.
To substantiate the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, an employer shall develop and maintain documentation to meet the employer's burden of proof. Such documentation shall include records of payments to contract stevedoring companies or private dock operators, payroll records for United States longshore workers employed, or other documentation to show clearly that the employer has met its obligation to employ all United States longshore workers made available in response to a request for dispatch who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers. The documentation shall specify the number of full work units employed pursuant to this section, the composition of such full work units (
i.e.
, number of workers by job title), and the date(s) and location(s) where the longshore work was performed. The employer also shall develop and maintain documentation concerning the provision of transportation from the point of embarkation to the vessel on which longshore work is to be performed. Each time one or more United States longshore workers are dispatched in response to the request
under § 655.534, the employer shall retain a written record of whether transportation to the vessel was provided and the time and distance from the point of embarkation to the vessel.
§ 655.536
The third attestation element for locations in Alaska: No intention or design to influence bargaining representative election.
(a) The employer shall attest that use of alien crewmembers to perform the longshore activity specified on the Form ETA 9033-A is not intended or designed to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers in the State of Alaska.
(b)
Documentation.
The employer need not develop nor maintain documentation to substantiate the statement referenced in paragraph (a) of this section. In the case of an investigation, however, the employer has the burden of proof to show that the use of alien crewmembers to perform the longshore activity specified on the Form ETA 9033-A was not intended nor designed to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers in the State of Alaska.
§ 655.537
The fourth attestation element for locations in Alaska: Notice of filing.
(a)(1) The employer shall attest that at the time of filing the attestation, notice of filing has been provided to:
(i) Labor organizations which have been recognized as exclusive bargaining representatives of United States longshore workers within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 141
et seq.
) and which make available or intend to make available workers to the particular location where the longshore work is to be performed;
(ii) Contract stevedoring companies which employ or intend to employ United States longshore workers at the location where the longshore work is to be performed; and
(iii) Operators of private docks at which the employer will use longshore workers.
(2) The notices provided under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall include a copy of the Form ETA 9033-A to be submitted to ETA, shall provide information concerning the availability of supporting documents for public examination at the national office of ETA, and shall include the following statement: “Complaints alleging a misrepresentation of material facts in the attestation and/or failure to comply with the terms of the attestation may be filed with any office of the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor.”
(b) The employer shall request a copy of the Certificate of Compliance issued by the district director of the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs under section 37 of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 932) from the parties to whom notice is provided pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section. An employer's obligation to make a bona fide request for dispatch of U.S. longshore workers under § 655.534 of this part before using alien crewmembers to perform the longshore work attested to shall commence upon receipt of the copy of the Certificate of Compliance.
(c)
Documentation.
The employer shall develop and maintain documentation sufficient to meet its burden of proving the validity of the statement referenced in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and attested to on the Form ETA 9033-A. Such documentation shall include a copy of the notices provided, as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and shall be submitted to ETA along with the Form ETA 9033-A.
§ 655.538
Actions on attestations submitted for filing for locations in Alaska.
Once an attestation has been received from an employer, a determination shall be made by the Certifying Officer whether to accept the attestation for filing or return it. The Certifying Officer may request additional explanation and/or documentation from the employer in making this determination. An attestation which is properly filled out and which includes accompanying documentation for the requirement set forth at § 655.537 of this part shall be accepted for filing by ETA on the date it is signed by the Certifying Officer unless it falls within one of the categories set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Once an attestation
is accepted for filing, ETA shall then follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Upon acceptance of the employer's attestation by ETA, the attestation and accompanying documentation shall be forwarded to and be available for public examination at the ETA national office in a timely manner. ETA shall not consider information contesting an attestation received by ETA prior to the determination to accept or return the attestation for filing. Such information shall not be made a part of ETA's administrative record on the attestation, but shall be referred to ESA to be processed as a complaint pursuant to subpart G of this part if the attestation is accepted by ETA for filing.
(a)
Acceptance.
(1) If the attestation is properly filled out and includes accompanying documentation for the requirement set forth at § 655.537, and does not fall within one of the categories set forth at paragraph (b) of this section, ETA shall accept the attestation for filing, provide notification to the DHS office having jurisdiction over the location where longshore work will be performed, and return to the employer, or the employer's agent or representative at a U.S. address, one copy of the attestation form submitted by the employer, with ETA's acceptance indicated thereon. Before using alien crewmembers to perform the longshore work attested to on Form ETA 9033-A, the employer shall make a bona fide request for and employ United States longshore workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers pursuant to §§ 655.534 and 655.535. Where such a request for dispatch of United States longshore workers is unsuccessful, either in whole or in part, any use of alien crewmembers to perform longshore activity shall be in accordance with DHS regulations.
(2) DOL is not the guarantor of the accuracy, truthfulness or adequacy of an attestation accepted for filing.
(b)
Unacceptable attestations.
ETA shall not accept an attestation for filing and shall return such attestation to the employer, or the employer's agent or representative at a U.S. address, when any one of the following conditions exists:
(1) When the Form ETA 9033-A is not properly filled out. Examples of improperly filled out Form ETA 9033-A's include instances where the employer has neglected to check all the necessary boxes, where the employer has failed to include the name of any port, city, or other geographical reference point where longshore work is to be performed, or where the employer has failed to sign the attestation or to designate an agent in the United States.
(2) When the Form ETA 9033-A with accompanying documentation is not received by ETA at least 30 days prior to the first performance of the longshore activity, unless the employer is claiming that it could not have reasonably anticipated the need to file the attestation for that location at that time, and has included documentation which supports this contention, and ETA has found the claim to be valid.
(3) When the Form ETA 9033-A does not include accompanying documentation for the requirement set forth at § 655.537.
(4) When the accompanying documentation submitted by the employer and required by § 655.537, on its face, is inconsistent with that section. Examples of such a situation include an instance where the Form ETA 9033-A indicates that the longshore work will be performed at a particular private dock and the documentation required under the notice attestation element indicates that notice was provided to an operator of a different private dock, or where the longshore work is to be performed at a particular time and location in the State of Alaska and the notice of filing provided to qualified labor organizations and contract stevedoring companies indicates that the longshore work is to be performed at a different time and/or location.
(5) When the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, has notified ETA, in writing, after an investigation pursuant to subpart G of this part, that a cease and desist order has been issued pursuant to subpart G of this part, with respect to the attesting employer's performance of longshore work at a particular location in the State of Alaska, in violation of a previously accepted attestation.
(6) When the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, has notified ETA, in writing, after an investigation pursuant to subpart G of this part, that the particular employer has misrepresented or failed to comply with an attestation previously submitted and accepted for filing, but in no case for a period of more than one year after the date of the Administrator's notice and provided that DHS has not advised ETA that the prohibition is in effect for a lesser period.
(7) When the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, has notified ETA, in writing, that the employer has failed to comply with any penalty, sanction, or other remedy assessed in a final agency action following an investigation by the Wage and Hour Division pursuant to subpart G of this part.
(c)
Resubmission.
If the attestation is not accepted for filing pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, ETA shall return to the employer, or the employer's agent or representative, at a U.S. address, the attestation form and accompanying documentation submitted by the employer. ETA shall notify the employer, in writing, of the reason(s) that the attestation is unacceptable. When an attestation is found to be unacceptable pursuant to paragraph (b) (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, the employer may resubmit the corrected attestation with the proper documentation. When an attestation is found to be unacceptable pursuant to paragraph (b) (5), (6), or (7) of this section and returned, such action shall be the final decision of the Secretary of Labor.
§ 655.539
Effective date and validity of filed attestations for locations in Alaska.
An attestation is filed and effective as of the date it is accepted and signed by the Certifying Officer. Such attestation is valid for the 12-month period beginning on the date of acceptance for filing, unless suspended or invalidated pursuant to § 655.540 of this part. The filed attestation expires at the end of the 12-month period of validity.
§ 655.540
Suspension or invalidation of filed attestations for locations in Alaska.
Suspension or invalidation of an attestation may result from enforcement action(s) under subpart G of this part (
i.e.,
investigation(s) conducted by the Administrator or cease and desist order(s) issued by the Administrator regarding the employer's misrepresentation in or failure to carry out its attestation); or from a discovery by ETA that it made an error in accepting the attestation because such attestation falls within one of the categories set forth in § 655.538(b).
(a)
Result of Wage and Hour Division action.
Upon the determination of a violation under subpart G of this part, the Administrator shall, pursuant to § 655.665(b), notify the DHS of the violation and of the Administrator's notice to ETA.
(b)
Result of ETA action.
If, after accepting an attestation for filing, ETA finds that the attestation is unacceptable because it falls within one of the categories set forth at § 655.538(b) and, as a result, ETA suspends or invalidates the attestation, ETA shall notify the DHS of such suspension or invalidation and shall return a copy of the attestation form to the employer, or the employer's agent or representative at a U.S. address. ETA shall notify the employer, in writing, of the reason(s) that the attestation is suspended or invalidated.
§ 655.541
Withdrawal of accepted attestations for locations in Alaska.
(a) An employer who has submitted an attestation which has been accepted for filing may withdraw such attestation at any time before the 12-month period of its validity terminates, unless the Administrator has found reasonable cause under subpart G to commence an investigation of the particular attestation. Such withdrawal may be advisable, for example, when the employer learns that the country in which the vessel is registered and of which nationals of such country hold a majority of the ownership interest in the vessel has been removed from the non-reciprocity list (which means, for purposes of this section,
Prohibitions on longshore work by U.S. nationals; listing
by country
at 22 CFR 89.1). In that event, an attestation would no longer be required under subpart F of this part, since upon being removed from the non-reciprocity list the performance of longshore work by alien crewmembers would be permitted under the reciprocity exception at sec. 258(e) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1288(e)). Requests for withdrawals shall be in writing and shall be directed to the Certifying Officer.
(b) Withdrawal of an attestation shall not affect an employer's liability with respect to any failure to meet the conditions attested to which took place before the withdrawal, or for misrepresentations in an attestation. However, if an employer has not yet performed the longshore activities at the location(s) in question, the Administrator shall not find reasonable cause to investigate unless it is alleged, and there is reasonable cause to believe, that the employer has made misrepresentations in the attestation or documentation thereof, or that the employer has not in fact given the notice attested to.

# Public Access
§ 655.550
Public access.
(a)
Public examination at ETA.
ETA shall make available for public examination in Washington, DC, a list of employers which have filed attestations under this subpart, and for each such employer, a copy of the employer's attestation and accompanying documentation it has received.
(b)
Notice to public.
ETA periodically shall publish a list in the
Federal Register
identifying under this subpart employers which have submitted attestations; employers which have attestations on file; and employers which have submitted attestations which have been found unacceptable for filing.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control No. 1205-0309)
Pt. 655, Subpt. F, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart F of Part 655—U.S. Seaports
The list of 224 seaports includes all major and most smaller ports serving ocean and Great Lakes commerce.

# North Atlantic Range
Bucksport, ME
Eastport, ME
Portland, ME
Searsport, ME
Portsmouth, NH
Boston, MA
Fall River, MA
New Bedford, MA
Providence, RI
Bridgeport, CT
New Haven, CT
New London, CT
Albany, NY
New York, NY/NJ
Camden, NJ
Gloucester City, NJ
Paulsboro, NJ
Chester, PA
Marcus Hook, PA
Philadelphia, PA
Delaware City, DE
Wilmington, DE
Baltimore, MD
Cambridge, MD
Alexandria, VA
Chesapeake, VA
Hopewell, VA
Newport News, VA
Norfolk, VA
Portsmouth, VA
Richmond, VA

# South Atlantic Range
Morehead City, NC
Southport, NC
Wilmington, NC
Charleston, SC
Georgetown, SC
Port Royal, SC
Brunswick, GA
Savannah, GA
St. Mary, GA
Cocoa, FL
Fernandina Beach, FL
Fort Lauderdale, FL
Fort Pierce, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Miami, FL
Palm Beach, FL
Port Canaveral, FL
Port Everglades, FL
Riviera, FL
Aguadilla, PR
Ceiba, PR
Guanica, PR
Guayanilla, PR
Humacao, PR
Jobos, PR
Mayaguez, PR
Ponce, PR
San Juan, PR
Vieques, PR
Yabucoa, PR
Alucroix, VI
Charlotte Amalie, VI
Christiansted, VI
Frederiksted, VI
Limetree Bay, VI

# North Pacific Range
Astoria, OR
Bandon, OR
Columbia City, OR
Coos Bay, OR
Mapleton, OR
Newport, OR
Portland, OR
Rainier, OR
Reedsport, OR
St. Helens, OR
Toledo, OR
Anacortes, WA
Bellingham, WA
Edmonds (Edwards Point), WA
Everett, WA
Ferndale, WA
Friday Harbor, WA
Grays Harbor, WA
Kalama, WA
Longview, WA
Olympia, WA
Point Wells, WA
Portage, WA
Port Angeles, WA
Port Gamble, WA
Port Townsend, WA
Raymond, WA
Seattle, WA
Tacoma, WA
Vancouver, WA
Willapa Harbor, WA
Winslow, WA

# Great Lakes Range
Duluth, MN
Silver Bay, MN
Green Bay, WI
Kenosha, WI
Manitowoc, WI
Milwaukee, WI
Sheboygan, WI
Superior, WI
Alpena, MI
Bay City, MI
Detroit, MI
De Tour Village, MI
Essexville, MI
Ferrysburg, MI
Grand Haven, MI
Marine City, MI
Muskegon, MI
Port Huron, MI
Presque Isle, MI
Rogers City, MI
Saginaw, MI
Sault Ste Marie, MI
Chicago, IL
Ashtabula, OH
Cincinnati, OH
Cleveland, OH
Conneaut, OH
Fairport, OH
Huron, OH
Lorain, OH
Sandusky, OH
Toledo, OH
Erie, PA
Buffalo, NY
Odgensburg, NY
Oswego, NY
Rochester, NY
Burns Harbor, IN
E. Chicago, IN
Gary, IN

# Gulf Coast Range
Panama City, FL
Pensacola, FL
Port Manatee, FL
Port St. Joe, FL
Tampa, FL
Mobile, AL
Gulfport, MS
Pascagoula, MS
Baton Rouge, LA
Gretna, LA
Lake Charles, LA
Louisiana Offshore Oil Port, LA
New Orleans, LA
Beaumont, TX
Brownsville, TX
Corpus Christi, TX
Freeport, TX
Galveston, TX
Harbor Island, TX
Houston, TX
Orange, TX
Port Arthur, TX
Port Isabel, TX
Port Lavaca, TX
Port Neches, TX
Sabine, TX
Texas City, TX

# South Pacific Range
Alameda, CA
Antioch, CA
Benicia, CA
Carlsbad, CA
Carpinteria, CA
Crockett, CA
El Segundo, CA
Eureka, CA
Estero Bay, CA
Gaviota, CA
Huntington Beach, CA
Long Beach, CA
Los Angeles, CA
Mandalay Beach, CA
Martinez, CA
Moss Landing, CA
Oakland, CA
Pittsburg, CA
Port Costa, CA
Port Hueneme, CA
Port San Luis, CA
Redwood City, CA
Richmond, CA
Sacramento, CA
San Diego, CA
San Francisco, CA
Selby, CA
Stockton, CA
Vallejo, CA
Ventura, CA
Barbers Point, HI
Hilo, HI
Honolulu, HI
Kahului, HI
Kaunakakai, HI
Kawaihae, HI
Nawiliwili, HI
Port Allen, HI

# Subpart G—Enforcement of the Limitations Imposed on Employers Using Alien Crewmembers for Longshore Activities in U.S. Ports

# Source:
60 FR 3969, 3977, Jan. 19, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 655.600
Enforcement authority of Administrator, Wage and Hour Division.
(a) The Administrator shall perform all the Secretary's investigative and enforcement functions under section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) and subparts F and G of this part.
(b) The Administrator, pursuant to a complaint, shall conduct such investigations as may be appropriate and, in connection therewith, enter and inspect such places and such records (and make transcriptions or copies thereof), question such persons and gather such information as deemed necessary by the Administrator to determine compliance regarding the matters which are the subject of the investigation.
(c) An employer being investigated shall make available to the Administrator such records, information, persons, and places as the Administrator deems appropriate to copy, transcribe, question, or inspect. No employer subject to the provisions of section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) and subparts F and G of this part shall interfere with any official of the Department of Labor performing an investigation, inspection or law enforcement function pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1288 or subpart F or G of this part. Any such interference shall be a violation of the attestation and subparts F and G of this part, and the Administrator may take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate. (
Note:
Federal criminal statutes prohibit certain interference with a Federal officer in the performance of official duties. 18 U.S.C. 111 and 18 U.S.C. 1114.)
(d)(1) An employer subject to subparts F and G of this part shall at all times cooperate in administrative and enforcement proceedings. No employer shall intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, retaliate, or in any manner discriminate against any person because such person has:
(i) Filed a complaint or appeal under or related to section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) or subpart F or G of this part;
(ii) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or related to section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) or subpart F or G of this part;
(iii) Exercised or asserted on behalf of himself or herself or others any right or protection afforded by section 258 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1288) or subpart F or G of this part.
(iv) Consulted with an employee of a legal assistance program or an attorney on matters related to section 258 of the Act or to subpart F or G of this part or any other DOL regulation promulgated pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1288.
(2) In the event of such intimidation or restraint as are described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the conduct shall be a violation of the attestation and subparts F and G of this part, and the Administrator may take such further actions as the Administrator considers appropriate.
(e) The Administrator shall, to the extent possible under existing law, protect the confidentiality of any person who provides information to the Department in confidence in the course of an investigation or otherwise under subpart F or G of this part. However, confidentiality will not be afforded to the complainant or to information provided by the complainant.
§ 655.605
Complaints and investigative procedures.
(a) The Administrator, through an investigation, shall determine whether a basis exists to make a finding that:
(1) An attesting employer has—
(i) Failed to meet conditions attested to; or
(ii) Misrepresented a material fact in an attestation.

# (Note:
Federal criminal statutes provide penalties of up to $10,000 and/or imprisonment of up to 5 years for knowing and willful submission of false statements to the Federal Government. 18 U.S.C. 1001; see also 18 U.S.C. 1546.); or
(2) In the case of an employer operating under the automated vessel exception to the prohibition on utilizing alien crewmembers to perform longshore activity(ies) at a U.S. port, the employer—
(i) Is utilizing alien crewmember(s) to perform longshore activity(ies) at a port where the prevailing practice has not been to use such workers for such activity(ies); or
(ii) Is utilizing alien crewmember(s) to perform longshore activities:
(A) During a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute at the U.S. port; and/or
(B) With intent or design to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers at the U.S. port; or
(3) An employer failed to comply in any other manner with the provisions of subpart F or G of this part.
(b) Any aggrieved person or organization may file a complaint of a violation of the provisions of subpart F or G of this part.
(1) No particular form of complaint is required, except that the complaint shall be written or, if oral, shall be reduced to writing by the Wage and Hour Division official who receives the complaint.
(2) The complaint shall set forth sufficient facts for the Administrator to determine—
(i) Whether, in the case of an attesting employer, there is reasonable cause to believe that particular part or parts of the attestation or regulations have been violated; or
(ii) Whether, in the case of an employer claiming the automated vessel exception, the preponderance of the evidence submitted by any interested party shows that conditions exist that would require the employer to file an attestation.
(3) The complaint may be submitted to any local Wage and Hour Division office; the addresses of such offices are found in local telephone directories. The office or person receiving such a complaint shall refer it to the office of the Wage and Hour Division administering the area in which the reported violation is alleged to have occurred.
(c) The Administrator shall determine whether there is reasonable cause to believe that the complaint warrants investigation. If the Administrator determines that the complaint fails to present reasonable cause for an investigation, the Administrator shall so notify the complainant, who may submit a new complaint, with such additional information as may be necessary. There shall be no hearing pursuant to § 655.625 for the Administrator's determination not to conduct an investigation. If the Administrator determines that an investigation on the
complaint is warranted, the investigation shall be conducted and a determination issued within 180 calendar days of the Administrator's receipt of the complaint, or later for good cause shown.
(d) In conducting an investigation, the Administrator may consider and make part of the investigation file any evidence or materials that have been compiled in any previous investigation regarding the same or a closely related matter.
(e) In conducting an investigation under an attestation, the Administrator shall take into consideration the employer's burden to provide facts and evidence to establish the matters asserted. In conducting an investigation regarding an employer's eligibility for the automated vessel exception, the Administrator shall not impose the burden of proof on the employer, but shall consider all evidence from any interested party in determining whether the employer is not eligible for the exception.
(f) In an investigation regarding the use of alien crewmembers to perform longshore activity(ies) in a U.S. port (whether by an attesting employer or by an employer claiming the automated vessel exception), the Administrator shall accept as conclusive proof a previous Departmental determination, published in the
Federal Register
pursuant to § 655.670, establishing that such use of alien crewmembers is not the prevailing practice for the activity(ies) and U.S. port at issue. The Administrator shall give appropriate weight to a previous Departmental determination published in the
Federal Register
pursuant to § 655.670, establishing that at the time of such determination, such use of alien crewmembers was the prevailing practice for the activity(ies) and U.S. port at issue.
(g) When an investigation has been conducted, the Administrator shall, within the time period specified in paragraph (c) of this section, issue a written determination as to whether a basis exists to make a finding stated in paragraph (a) of this section. The determination shall be issued and an opportunity for a hearing shall be afforded in accordance with the procedures specified in § 655.625(d) of this part.
§ 655.610
Automated vessel exception to prohibition on utilization of alien crewmember(s) to perform longshore activity(ies) at a U.S. port.
(a) The Act establishes a rebuttable presumption that the prevailing practice in U.S. ports is for automated vessels (
i.e.,
vessels equipped with automated self- unloading conveyor belts or vacuum-actuated systems) to use alien crewmembers to perform longshore activity(ies) through the use of the self-unloading equipment. An employer claiming the automated vessel exception does not have the burden of establishing eligibility for the exception.
(b) In the event of a complaint asserting that an employer claiming the automated vessel exception is not eligible for such exception, the Administrator shall determine whether the preponderance of the evidence submitted by any interested party shows that:
(1) It is not the prevailing practice at the U.S. port to use alien crewmember(s) to perform the longshore activity(ies) through the use of the self-unloading equipment; or
(2) The employer is using alien crewmembers to perform longshore activity(ies)—
(i) During a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute at the U.S. port; and/or
(ii) With intent or design to influence an election of a bargaining representative for workers at the U.S. port.
(c) In making the prevailing practice determination required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Administrator shall determine whether, in the 12-month period preceding the date of the Administrator's receipt of the complaint, one of the following conditions existed:
(1) Over fifty percent of the automated vessels docking at the port used alien crewmembers for the activity (for purposes of this paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a vessel shall be counted each time it docks at the particular port); or
(2) Alien crewmembers made up over fifty percent of the workers who performed the activity with respect to such automated vessels.
(d) An interested party, complaining that the automated vessel exception is not applicable to a particular employer, shall provide to the Administrator evidence such as:
(1) A written summary of a survey of the experience of masters of automated vessels which entered the local port in the previous year, describing the practice in the port as to the use of alien crewmembers;
(2) A letter, affidavit, or other written statement from an appropriate local port authority regarding the use of alien crewmembers to perform the longshore activity at the port in the previous year;
(3) Written statements from collective bargaining representatives and/or shipping agents with direct knowledge of practices regarding the use of alien crewmembers at the port in the previous year.
§ 655.615
Cease and desist order.
(a) If the Administrator determines that reasonable cause exists to conduct an investigation with respect to an attestation, the complainant may request that the Administrator enter a cease and desist order against the employer against whom the complaint is lodged.
(1) The request for a cease and desist order may be filed along with the complaint, or may be filed subsequently. The request, including all accompanying documents, shall be filed in duplicate with the same Wage and Hour Division office that received the complaint.
(2) No particular form is prescribed for a request for a cease and desist order pursuant to this paragraph (a). However, any such request shall:
(i) Be dated;
(ii) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(iii) Specify the attestation provision(s) with respect to which the employer allegedly failed to comply and/or submitted misrepresentation(s) of material fact(s);
(iv) Be accompanied by evidence to substantiate the allegation(s) of noncompliance and/or misrepresentation;
(v) Be signed by the complaining party making the request or by the authorized representative of such party;
(vi) Include the address at which such complaining party or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto.
(3) Upon receipt of a request for a cease and desist order, the Administrator shall promptly notify the employer of the request. The Administrator's notice shall:
(i) Inform the employer that it may respond to the request and meet with a Wage and Hour Division official within 14 calendar days of the date of the notice;
(ii) Be served upon the employer by facsimile transmission, in person, or by certified or regular mail, at the address of the U.S. agent stated on the employer's attestation;
(iii) Be accompanied by copies of the complaint, the request for a cease and desist order, the evidence submitted by the complainant, and any evidence from other investigation(s) of the same or a closely related matter which the Administrator may incorporate into the record. (Any such evidence from other investigation(s) shall also be made available for examination by the complaining party at the Wage and Hour Division office which issued the notice.)
(4) No particular form is prescribed for the employer's response to the complaining party's request for a cease and desist order under this paragraph (a), however, any such response shall:
(i) Be dated;
(ii) Be submitted by facsimile transmission, in person, by certified or regular mail, or by courier service to the Wage and Hour Division office which issued the notice of the request;
(iii) Be received by the appropriate Wage and Hour Division office no later than 14 calendar days from the date of the notice of the request;
(iv) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(v) Explain, in any detail desired by the employer, the employer's grounds or reasons as to why the Administrator should deny the requested cease and desist order;
(vi) Be accompanied by evidence to substantiate the employer's grounds or reasons as to why the Administrator should deny the requested cease and desist order;
(vii) Specify whether the employer desires an informal meeting with a Wage and Hour Division official;
(viii) Be signed by the employer or its authorized representative; and
(ix) Include the address at which the employer or its authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto, if such address is different from the address of the U.S. agent stated on the attestation.
(5) In the event the employer requests a meeting with a Wage and Hour Division official, the Administrator shall provide the employer and the complaining party, or their authorized representatives, an opportunity for such a meeting to present their views regarding the evidence and arguments submitted by the parties. This shall be an informal meeting, not subject to any procedural rules. The meeting shall be held within the 14 calendar days permitted for the employer's response to the request for the cease and desist order, and shall be held at a time and place set by the Wage and Hour Division official, who shall notify the parties.
(6) After receipt of the employer's timely response and after any informal meeting which may have been held with the parties, the Administrator shall promptly issue a written determination, either denying the request or issuing a cease and desist order. In making the determination, the Administrator shall consider all the evidence submitted, including any evidence from the same or a closely related matter which the Administrator has incorporated into the record and provided to the employer. If the Administrator determines that the complaining party's position is supported by a preponderance of the evidence submitted, the Administrator shall order that the employer cease the activities specified in the determination, until the completion of the Administrator's investigation and any subsequent proceedings pursuant to § 655.625 of this part, unless the prohibition is lifted by subsequent order of the Administrator because it is later determined that the employer's position was correct. While the cease and desist order is in effect, ETA shall suspend the subject attestation, either in whole or in part, and shall not accept any subsequent attestation from the employer for the activity(ies) and U.S. port or location in the State of Alaska at issue.
(7) The Administrator's cease and desist order shall be served on the employer at the address of its designated U.S. based representative or at the address specified in the employer's response, by facsimile transmission, personal service, or certified mail.
(b) If the Administrator determines that reasonable cause exists to conduct an investigation with respect to a complaint that a non-attesting employer is not entitled to the automated vessel exception to the requirement for the filing of an attestation, a complaining party may request that the Administrator enter a cease and desist order against the employer against whom the complaint is lodged.
(1) The request for a cease and desist order may be filed along with the complaint, or may be filed subsequently. The request, including all accompanying documents, shall be filed in duplicate with the same Wage and Hour Division office that received the complaint.
(2) No particular form is prescribed for a request for a cease and desist order pursuant to this paragraph. However, any such request shall:
(i) Be dated;
(ii) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(iii) Specify the circumstances which allegedly require that the employer be denied the use of the automated vessel exception;
(iv) Be accompanied by evidence to substantiate the allegation(s);
(v) Be signed by the complaining party making the request or by the authorized representative of such party; and
(vi) Include the address at which such complaining party or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto.
(3) Upon receipt of a request for a cease and desist order, the Administrator shall notify the employer of the request. The Administrator's notice shall:
(i) Inform the employer that it may respond to the request and meet with a Wage and Hour Division official within
14 calendar days of the date of the notice;
(ii) Be served upon the employer by facsimile transmission, in person, or by certified or regular mail, at the employer's last known address; and
(iii) Be accompanied by copies of the complaint, the request for a cease and desist order, the evidence submitted by the complainant, and any evidence from other investigation(s) of the same or a closely related matter which the Administrator may incorporate into the record. (Any such evidence from other investigation(s) shall also be made available for examination by the complaining party at the Wage and Hour Division office which issued the notice.)
(4) No particular form is prescribed for the employer's response to the complaining party's request for a cease and desist order under this paragraph (b). However, any such response shall:
(i) Be dated;
(ii) Be submitted by facsimile transmission, in person, by certified or regular mail, or by courier service to the Wage and Hour Division office which issued the notice of the request;
(iii) Be received by the appropriate Wage and Hour Division office no later than 14 calendar days from the date of the notice of the request;
(iv) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(v) Explain, in any detail desired by the employer, the employer's grounds or reasons as to why the Administrator should deny the requested cease and desist order;
(vi) Be accompanied by evidence to substantiate the employer's grounds or reasons as to why the Administrator should deny the requested cease and desist order;
(vii) Specify whether the employer desires an informal meeting with a Wage and Hour Division official;
(viii) Be signed by the employer or its authorized representative; and
(ix) Include the address at which the employer or its authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto.
(5) In the event the employer requests a meeting with a Wage and Hour Division official, the Administrator shall provide the employer and the complaining party, or their authorized representatives, an opportunity for such a meeting to present their views regarding the evidence and arguments submitted by the parties. This shall be an informal meeting, not subject to any procedural rules. The meeting shall be held within the 14 calendar days permitted for the employer's response to the request for the cease and desist order, and shall be held at a time and place set by the Wage and Hour Division official, who shall notify the parties.
(6) After receipt of the employer's timely response and after any informal meeting which may have been held with the parties, the Administrator shall promptly issue a written determination, either denying the request or issuing a cease and desist order. If the Administrator determines that the complaining party's position is supported by a preponderance of the evidence submitted, the Administrator shall order that the employer cease the use of alien crewmembers to perform the longshore activity(ies) specified in the order. In making the determination, the Administrator shall consider all the evidence submitted, including any evidence from the same or a closely related matter which the Administrator has incorporated into the record and provided to the employer. The order shall remain in effect until the completion of the investigation and any subsequent hearing proceedings pursuant to § 655.625 of this part, unless the employer files and maintains on file with ETA an attestation pursuant to § 655.520 of this part or unless the prohibition is lifted by subsequent order of the Administrator because it is later determined that the employer's position was correct.
(7) The Administrator's cease and desist order shall be served on the employer or its designated representative by facsimile transmission, personal service, or by certified mail at the address specified in the employer's response or, if no such address was specified, at the employer's last known address.
§ 655.620
Civil money penalties and other remedies.
(a) The Administrator may assess a civil money penalty not to exceed $11,823 for each alien crewmember with respect to whom there has been a violation of the attestation or subpart F or G of this part. The Administrator may also impose appropriate remedy(ies).
(b) In determining the amount of civil money penalty to be assessed, the Administrator shall consider the type of violation committed and other relevant factors. The factors which may be considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Previous history of violation, or violations, by the employer under the Act and subpart F or G of this part;
(2) The number of workers affected by the violation or violations;
(3) The gravity of the violation or violations;
(4) Efforts made by the violator in good faith to comply with the provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1288(c) and subparts F and G of this part;
(5) The violator's explanation of the violation or violations;
(6) The violator's commitment to future compliance; and/or
(7) The extent to which the violator achieved a financial gain due to the violation, or the potential financial loss, potential injury or adverse effect with respect to other parties.
(c) The civil money penalty, and any other remedy determined by the Administrator to be appropriate, are immediately due for payment or performance upon the assessment by the Administrator, or the decision by an administrative law judge where a hearing is requested, or the decision by the Secretary where review is granted. The employer shall remit the amount of the civil money penalty, by certified check or money order made payable to the order of “Wage and Hour Division, Labor.” The remittance shall be delivered or mailed to the Wage and Hour Division office for the area in which the violations occurred. The performance of any other remedy prescribed by the Administrator shall follow procedures established by the Administrator. The employer's failure to pay the civil money penalty, or to perform any other remedy prescribed by the Administrator, shall result in the rejection by ETA of any future attestation submitted by the employer, until such payment or performance is accomplished.
[60 FR 3969, 3977, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 81 FR 43448, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 5380, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 11, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 217, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2296, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2967, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2333, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2214, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1814, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1858, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 655.625
Written notice, service and Federal Register publication of Administrator's determination.
(a) The Administrator's determination, issued pursuant to § 655.605 of this part, shall be served on the complainant, the employer, and other known interested parties by personal service or by certified mail at the parties' last known addresses. Where service by certified mail is not accepted by the party, the Administrator may exercise discretion to serve the determination by regular mail.
(b) Where the Administrator determines the prevailing practice regarding the use of alien crewmember(s) to perform longshore activity(ies) in a U.S. port (whether the Administrator's investigation involves an employer operating under an attestation, or under the automated vessel exception), the Administrator shall, simultaneously with issuance of the determination, publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of the determination. The notice shall identify the activity(ies), the U.S. port, and the prevailing practice regarding the use of alien crewmembers. The notice shall also inform interested parties that they may request a hearing pursuant to § 655.630 of this part, within 15 days of the date of the determination.
(c) The Administrator shall file with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, a copy of the complaint and the Administrator's determination.
(d) The Administrator's written determination required by § 655.605 of this part shall:
(1) Set forth the determination of the Administrator and the reason or reasons therefor, and in the case of a finding of violation(s) by an attesting employer, prescribe any remedies, including the amount of any civil money penalties assessed and the reason therefor, and/or any other remedies required for compliance with the employer's attestation.
(2) Inform the interested parties that they may request a hearing pursuant to § 655.625 of this part.
(3) Inform the interested parties that in the absence of a timely request for a hearing, received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge within 15 calendar days of the date of the determination, the determination of the Administrator shall become final and not appealable.
(4) Set forth the procedure for requesting a hearing, and give the address of the Chief Administrative Law Judge (with whom the request must be filed) and the representative(s) of the Solicitor of Labor (upon whom copies of the request must be served).
(5) Inform the parties that, pursuant to § 655.665, the Administrator shall notify ETA and the DHS of the occurrence of a violation by the attesting employer or of the non-attesting employer's ineligibility for the automated vessel exception.
§ 655.630
Request for hearing.
(a) Any interested party desiring to request an administrative hearing on a determination issued pursuant to §§ 655.605 and 655.625 of this part shall make such request in writing to the Chief Administrative Law Judge at the address stated in the notice of determination.
(b) Interested parties may request a hearing in the following circumstances:
(1) The complainant or any other interested party may request a hearing where the Administrator determines, after investigation, that there is no basis for a finding that an attesting employer has committed violation(s) or that the employer is eligible for the automated vessel exception. In such a proceeding, the requesting party and the employer shall be parties; the Administrator may intervene as a party or appear as
amicus curiae
at any time in the proceeding, at the Administrator's discretion.
(2) The employer or any other interested party may request a hearing where the Administrator determines, after investigation, that there is a basis for a finding that an attesting employer has committed violation(s) or that a non- attesting employer is not eligible for the automated vessel exception. In such a proceeding, the Administrator and the employer shall be parties.
(c) No particular form is prescribed for any request for hearing permitted by this section. However, any such request shall:
(1) Be dated;
(2) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(3) Specify the issue or issues stated in the notice of determination giving rise to such request;
(4) State the specific reason or reasons why the party requesting the hearing believes such determination is in error;
(5) Be signed by the party making the request or by an authorized representative of such party; and
(6) Include the address at which such party or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto.
(d) The request for such hearing must be received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, at the address stated in the Administrator's notice of determination, no later than 15 calendar days after the date of the determination. An interested party that fails to meet this 15-day deadline for requesting a hearing may thereafter participate in the proceedings only by consent of the administrative law judge, either through intervention as a party pursuant to 29 CFR 18.10 (b) through (d) or through participation as an amicus curiae pursuant to 18 CFR 18.12.
(e) The request may be filed in person, by facsimile transmission, by certified or regular mail, or by courier service. For the requesting party's protection, if the request is filed by mail, it should be by certified mail. If the request is filed by facsimile transmission, the original of the request, signed by the requestor or authorized
representative, shall be filed within ten days.
(f) Copies of the request for a hearing shall be sent by the requestor to the Wage and Hour Division official who issued the Administrator's notice of determination, to the representative(s) of the Solicitor of Labor identified in the notice of determination, and to all known interested parties.
§ 655.635
Rules of practice for administrative law judge proceedings.
(a) Except as specifically provided in this subpart, and to the extent they do not conflict with the provisions of this subpart, the “Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges” established by the Secretary at 29 CFR part 18 shall apply to administrative proceedings under this subpart.
(b) As provided in the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556, any oral or documentary evidence may be received in proceedings under this part. The Federal Rules of Evidence and subpart B of the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges (29 CFR part 18, subpart B) shall not apply, but principles designed to ensure production of relevant and probative evidence shall guide the admission of evidence. The administrative law judge may exclude evidence which is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitive.
§ 655.640
Service and computation of time.
(a) Under this subpart, a party may serve any pleading or document by regular mail. Service on a party is complete upon mailing to the last known address or, in the case of the attesting employer, to the employer's designated representative in the U.S. No additional time for filing or response is authorized where service is by mail. In the interest of expeditious proceedings, the administrative law judge may direct the parties to serve pleadings or documents by a method other than regular mail.
(b) Two (2) copies of all pleadings and other documents in any administrative law judge proceeding shall be served on the attorneys for the Administrator. One copy shall be served on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210, and one copy on the attorney representing the Administrator in the proceeding.
(c) Time will be computed beginning with the day following the action and includes the last day of the period unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or federally-observed holiday, in which case the time period includes the next business day.
§ 655.645
Administrative law judge proceedings.
(a) Upon receipt of a timely request for a hearing filed pursuant to and in accordance with § 655.630 of this part, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall promptly appoint an administrative law judge to hear the case.
(b) Within seven calendar days following the assignment of the case, the administrative law judge shall notify all interested parties of the date, time and place of the hearing. All parties shall be given at least fourteen calendar days' notice of such hearing.
(c) The date of the hearing shall be not more than 60 calendar days from the date of the Administrator's determination. Because of the time constraints imposed by the Act, no requests for postponement shall be granted except for compelling reasons. Even if such reasons are shown, no extension of the hearing date beyond 60 days from the date of the Administrator's determination shall be granted except by consent of all the parties to the proceeding.
(d) The administrative law judge may prescribe a schedule by which the parties are permitted to file a prehearing brief or other written statement of fact or law. Any such brief or statement shall be served upon each other party in accordance with § 655.640 of this part. Posthearing briefs will not be permitted except at the request of the administrative law judge. When permitted, any such brief shall be limited to the issue or issues specified by the administrative law judge, shall be due within the time prescribed by the administrative law judge, and shall be
served on each other party in accordance with § 655.640 of this part.
(e) In reaching a decision, the administrative law judge shall, in accordance with the Act, impose the following burden of proof—
(1) The attesting employer shall have the burden of producing facts and evidence to establish the matters required by the attestation at issue;
(2) The burden of proof as to the applicability of the automated vessel exception shall be on the party to the hearing who is asserting that the employer is not eligible for the exception.
(f) The administrative law judge proceeding shall not be an appeal or review of the Administrator's ruling on a request for a cease and desist order pursuant to § 655.615.
§ 655.650
Decision and order of administrative law judge.
(a) Within 90 calendar days after receipt of the transcript of the hearing, the administrative law judge shall issue a decision. If any party desires review of the decision, including judicial review, a petition for Secretary's review thereof shall be filed as provided in § 655.655 of this subpart. If a petition for review is filed, the decision of the administrative law judge shall be inoperative unless and until the Secretary issues an order affirming the decision, or, unless and until 30 calendar days have passed after the Secretary's receipt of the petition for review and the Secretary has not issued notice to the parties that the Secretary will review the administrative law judge's decision.
(b) The decision of the administrative law judge shall include a statement of findings and conclusions, with reasons and basis therefor, upon each material issue presented on the record. The decision shall also include an appropriate order which may affirm, deny, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the determination of the Administrator; the reason or reasons for such order shall be stated in the decision. The administrative law judge shall not render determinations as to the legality of a regulatory provision or the constitutionality of a statutory provision.
(c) The decision shall be served on all parties in person or by certified or regular mail.
§ 655.655
Secretary's review of administrative law judge's decision.
(a) The Administrator or any interested party desiring review of the decision and order of an administrative law judge shall petition the Secretary to review the decision and order. To be effective, such petition shall be received by the Secretary within 30 calendar days of the date of the decision and order. Copies of the petition shall be served on all parties and on the administrative law judge.
(b) No particular form is prescribed for any petition for Secretary's review permitted by this subpart. However, any such petition shall:
(1) Be dated;
(2) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(3) Specify the issue or issues stated in the administrative law judge decision and order giving rise to such petition;
(4) State the specific reason or reasons why the party petitioning for review believes such decision and order are in error;
(5) Be signed by the party filing the petition or by an authorized representative of such party;
(6) Include the address at which such party or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto; and
(7) Attach copies of the administrative law judge's decision and order, and any other record documents which would assist the Secretary in determining whether review is warranted.
(c) Whenever the Secretary determines to review the decision and order of an administrative law judge, a notice of the Secretary's determination shall be served upon the administrative law judge and upon all parties to the proceeding within 30 calendar days after the Secretary's receipt of the petition for review.
(d) Upon receipt of the Secretary's notice, the Office of Administrative Law Judges shall within fifteen calendar days forward the complete hearing record to the Secretary.
(e) The Secretary's notice may specify:
(1) The issue or issues to be reviewed;
(2) The form in which submissions shall be made by the parties (e.g., briefs); and
(3) The time within which such submissions shall be made.
(f) All documents submitted to the Secretary shall be filed with the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, Attention: Executive Director, Office of Administrative Appeals, room S-4309. An original and two copies of all documents shall be filed. Documents are not deemed filed with the Secretary until actually received by the Secretary. All documents, including documents filed by mail, shall be received by the Secretary either on or before the due date.
(g) Copies of all documents filed with the Secretary shall be served upon all other parties involved in the proceeding. Service upon the Administrator shall be in accordance with § 655.640(b) of this part.
(h) The Secretary's final decision shall be issued within 180 calendar days from the date of the notice of intent to review. The Secretary's decision shall be served upon all parties and the administrative law judge.
(i) Upon issuance of the Secretary's decision, the Secretary shall transmit the entire record to the Chief Administrative Law Judge for custody pursuant to § 655.660 of this part.
§ 655.660
Administrative record.
The official record of every completed administrative hearing procedure provided by subparts F and G of this part shall be maintained and filed under the custody and control of the Chief Administrative Law Judge. Upon receipt of a complaint seeking review of the final agency action in a United States District Court, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall certify the official record and shall transmit such record to the clerk of the court.
§ 655.665
Notice to the Department of Homeland Security and the Employment and Training Administration.
(a) The Administrator shall promptly notify the DHS and ETA of the entry of a cease and desist order pursuant to § 655.615 of this part. The order shall remain in effect until the completion of the Administrator's investigation and any subsequent proceedings pursuant to § 655.630 of this part, unless the Administrator notifies the DHS and ETA of the entry of a subsequent order lifting the prohibition.
(1) The DHS, upon receipt of notification from the Administrator that a cease and desist order has been entered against an employer:
(i) Shall not permit the vessels owned or chartered by the attesting employer to use alien crewmembers to perform the longshore activity(ies) at the port or location in the State of Alaska specified in the cease and desist order; and
(ii) Shall, in the case of an employer seeking to utilize the automated vessel exception, require that such employer not use alien crewmembers to perform the longshore activity(ies) at the port or location in the State of Alaska specified in the cease and desist order, without having on file with ETA an attestation pursuant to § 655.520 of this part.
(2) ETA, upon receipt of the Administrator's notice shall, in the case of an attesting employer, suspend the employer's attestation, either in whole or in part, for the activity(ies) and port or location in the State of Alaska specified in the cease and desist order.
(b) The Administrator shall notify the DHS and ETA of the final determination of a violation by an attesting employer or of the ineligibility of an employer for the automated vessel exception, upon the earliest of the following events:
(1) Where the Administrator determines that there is a basis for a finding of violation by an attesting employer or a finding of nonapplicability of the automated vessel exception, and no timely request for hearing is made pursuant to § 655.630 of this part;
(2) Where, after a hearing, the administrative law judge issues a decision and order finding a violation by an attesting employer or finding inapplicable the automated vessel exception, and no timely petition for review to the Secretary is made pursuant to § 655.655 of this part; or
(3) Where a petition for review is taken from an administrative law
judge's decision finding a violation or finding inapplicable the automated vessel exception, and the Secretary either declines within thirty days to entertain the appeal, pursuant to § 655.655(c) of this part, or the Secretary affirms the administrative law judge's determination; or
(4) Where the administrative law judge finds that there was no violation by an attesting employer or that the automated vessel exception does apply, and the Secretary, upon review, issues a decision pursuant to § 655.655 of this part, holding that a violation was committed by an attesting employer or holding that the automated vessel exception does not apply.
(c) The DHS, upon receipt of notification from the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Shall not permit the vessels owned or chartered by the attesting employer to enter any port of the U.S. for a period of up to one year;
(2) Shall, in the case of an employer determined to be ineligible for the automated vessel exception, thereafter require that such employer not use alien crewmembers(s) to perform the longshore activity(ies) at the specified port or location in the State of Alaska without having on file with ETA an attestation pursuant to § 655.520 of this part; and
(3) Shall, in the event that the Administrator's notice constitutes a conclusive determination (pursuant to § 655.670) that the prevailing practice at a particular U.S. port does not permit the use of nonimmigrant alien crewmembers for particular longshore activity(ies), thereafter permit no employer to use alien crewmembers for the particular longshore activity(ies) at that port.
(d) ETA, upon receipt of the Administrator's notice pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Shall, in the case of an attesting employer, suspend the employer's attestation, either in whole or in part, for the port or location at issue and for any other U.S. port, and shall not accept for filing any attestation submitted by the employer for a period of 12 months or for a shorter period if such is specified for that employer by the DHS; and
(2) Shall, if the Administrator's notice constitutes a conclusive determination (pursuant to § 655.670) that the prevailing practice at a particular U.S. port does not permit the use of alien crewmembers for the longshore activity(ies), thereafter accept no attestation under the prevailing practice exception on Form ETA 9033 from any employer for the performance of the activity(ies) at that port, and shall invalidate any current attestation under the prevailing practice exception on Form ETA 9033 for any employer for the performance of the activity(ies) at that port.
[60 FR 3969, 3977, Jan. 19, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 35520, June 21, 2006]
§ 655.670
Federal Register notice of determination of prevailing practice.
(a) Pursuant to § 655.625(b), the Administrator shall publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of the Administrator's determination of any investigation regarding the prevailing practice for the use of alien crewmembers for particular longshore activity(ies) in a particular U.S. port (whether under an attestation or under the automated vessel exception). Where the Administrator has determined that the prevailing practice in that U.S. port does not permit such use of alien crewmembers, and no timely request for a hearing is filed pursuant to § 655.630, the Administrator's determination shall be the conclusive determination for purposes of the Act and subparts F and G of this part; the DHS and ETA shall, upon notice from the Administrator, take the actions specified in § 655.665. Where the Administrator has determined that the prevailing practice in that U.S. port at the time of the investigation permits such use of alien crewmembers, the Administrator shall, in any subsequent investigation, give that determination appropriate weight, unless the determination is reversed in proceedings under § 655.630 or § 655.655.
(b) Where an interested party, pursuant to § 655.630, requests a hearing on the Administrator's determination, the Administrator shall, upon the issuance of the decision of the administrative law judge, publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of the judge's decision as to the prevailing practice for the
longshore activity(ies) and U.S. port at issue, if the administrative law judge:
(1) Reversed the determination of the Administrator published in the
Federal Register
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Determines that the prevailing practice for the particular activity in the port does not permit the use of alien crewmembers.
(c) If the administrative law judge determines that the prevailing practice in that port does not permit such use of alien crewmembers, the judge's decision shall be the conclusive determination for purposes of the Act and subparts F and G of this part (unless and until reversed by the Secretary on discretionary review pursuant to § 655.655). The DHS and ETA shall upon notice from the Administrator, take the actions specified in § 655.665.
(d) In the event that the Secretary, upon discretionary review pursuant to § 655.655, issues a decision that reverses the administrative law judge on a matter on which the Administrator has published notices in the
Federal Register
pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Administrator shall publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of the Secretary's decision and shall notify the DHS and ETA.
(1) Where the Secretary reverses the administrative law judge and determines that, contrary to the judge's decision, the prevailing practice for the longshore activity(ies) in the U.S. port at issue does not permit the use of alien crewmembers, the Secretary's decision shall be the conclusive determination for purposes of the Act and subparts F and G of this part. Upon notice from the Administrator, the DHS and ETA shall take the actions specified in § 655.665.
(2) Where the Secretary reverses the administrative law judge and determines that, contrary to the judge's decision, the use of alien crewmembers is permitted by the prevailing practice for the longshore activity(ies) in the U.S. port at issue, the judge's decision shall no longer have the conclusive effect specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Upon notice from the Administrator, the DHS and ETA shall cease the actions specified in § 655.665.
§ 655.675
Non-applicability of the Equal Access to Justice Act.
A proceeding under subpart G of this part is not subject to the Equal Access to Justice Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 504. In such a proceeding, the administrative law judge shall have no authority to award attorney fees and/or other litigation expenses pursuant to the provisions of the Equal Access to Justice Act.

# Subpart H—Labor Condition Applications and Requirements for Employers Seeking To Employ Nonimmigrants on H-1b Visas in Specialty Occupations and as Fashion Models, and Requirements for Employers Seeking To Employ Nonimmigrants on H-1b1 and E-3 Visas in Specialty Occupations

# Source:
59 FR 65659, 65676, Dec. 20, 1994, unless otherwise noted.
§ 655.700
What statutory provisions govern the employment of H-1B, H-1B1, and E-3 nonimmigrants and how do employers apply for H-1B, H-1B1, and E-3 visas?
Under the E-3 visa program, the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), as amended, permits certain nonimmigrant treaty aliens to be admitted to the United States solely to perform services in a specialty occupation (INA section 101(a)(15)(E)(iii)). Under the H-1B1 visa program, the INA permits nonimmigrant professionals in specialty occupations from countries with which the United States has entered into certain agreements that are identified in section 214(g)(8)(A) of the INA to temporarily enter the United States for employment in a specialty occupation. Employers seeking to employ nonimmigrant workers in specialty occupations under H-1B, H-1B1, or E-3 visas must file a labor condition application with the Department of Labor as described in § 655.730(c) and (d). Certain procedures described in this subpart H for obtaining a visa and entering the U.S. after the Department of Labor attestation process, including procedures
in § 655.705, apply only to H-1B nonimmigrants. The procedures for receiving an E-3 or H-1B1 visa and entering the U.S. on an E-3 or H-1B1 visa after the attestation process is certified by the Department of Labor are identified in the regulations and procedures of the Department of State and the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) of the Department of Homeland Security. Consult the Department of State (
http://www.state.gov/
) and USCIS (
http://www.uscis.gov/
) Web sites and regulations for specific instructions regarding the E-3 and H-1B1 visas.
(a)
Statutory provisions regarding H-1B visas.
With respect to nonimmigrant workers entering the U.S. on H-1B visas, which are available to nonimmigrant aliens in specialty occupations or certain fashion models from any country, the INA, as amended, provides as follows:
(1) Establishes an annual ceiling (exclusive of spouses and children) on the number of foreign workers who may be issued H-1B visas—
(i) 195,000 in fiscal year 2001;
(ii) 195,000 in fiscal year 2002;
(iii) 195,000 in fiscal year 2003; and
(iv) 65,000 in each succeeding fiscal year;
(2) Defines the scope of eligible occupations for which nonimmigrants may be issued H-1B visas and specifies the qualifications that are required for entry as an H-1B nonimmigrant ;
(3) Requires an employer seeking to employ H-1B nonimmigrants to file a labor condition application (LCA) agreeing to various attestation requirements and have it certified by the Department of Labor (DOL) before a nonimmigrant may be provided H-1B status by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS); and
(4) Establishes an enforcement system under which DOL is authorized to determine whether an employer has engaged in misrepresentation or failed to meet a condition of the LCA, and is authorized to impose fines and penalties.
(b)
Procedure for obtaining an H-1B visa classification.
Before a nonimmigrant may be admitted to work in a “specialty occupation” or as a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability in the United States under the H-1B visa classification, there are certain steps which must be followed:
(1) First, an employer shall submit to the Department of Labor (DOL), and obtain DOL certification of, a labor condition application (LCA). The requirements for obtaining a certified LCA are provided in this subpart. The electronic LCA (Form ETA 9035E) is available at
http://www.lca.doleta.gov.
The paper-version LCA (Form ETA 9035) and the LCA cover pages (Form ETA 9035CP), which contain the full attestation statements incorporated by reference into Form ETA 9035 and Form ETA 9035E, may be obtained from
http://ows.doleta.gov
and from the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) National Office. Employers must file LCAs in the manner prescribed in § 655.720.
(2) After obtaining DOL certification of an LCA, the employer may submit a nonimmigrant visa petition (DHS Form I-129), together with the certified LCA, to DHS, requesting H-1B classification for the foreign worker. The requirements concerning the submission of a petition to, and its processing by, DHS are set forth in DHS regulations. The DHS petition (Form I-129) may be obtained from an DHS district or area office.
(3) If DHS approves the H-1B classification, the nonimmigrant then may apply for an H-1B visa abroad at a consular office of the Department of State. If the nonimmigrant is already in the United States in a status other than H-1B, he/she may apply to the DHS for a change of visa status.
(c)
Applicability.
(1) This subpart H and subpart I of this part apply to all employers seeking to employ foreign workers under the H-1B visa classification in specialty occupations or as fashion models of distinguished merit and ability.
(2) During the period that the provisions of Appendix 1603.D.4 of Annex 1603 of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) apply, this subpart H and subpart I of this part shall apply (except for the provisions relating to the recruitment and displacement of U.S. workers (see §§ 655.738 and 655.739)) to the entry and employment
of a nonimmigrant who is a citizen of Mexico under and pursuant to the provisions of section D or Annex 1603 of NAFTA in the case of all professions set out in Appendix 1603.D.1 of Annex 1603 of NAFTA other than registered nurses. Therefore, the references in this part to “H-1B nonimmigrant” apply to any Mexican citizen nonimmigrant who is classified by DHS as “TN.” In the case of a registered nurse, the following provisions shall apply: subparts D and E of this part or the Nursing Relief for Disadvantaged Areas Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-95) and the regulations issued thereunder, 20 CFR part 655, subparts L and M.
(3)
E-3 visas:
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, this subpart H and subpart I of this part apply to all employers seeking to employ foreign workers under the E-3 visa classification in specialty occupations under INA section 101(a)(15)(E)(iii) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)(iii)). This paragraph (c)(3) applies to labor condition applications filed on or after April 11, 2008. E-3 labor condition applications filed prior to that date but on or after May 11, 2005 (
i.e.
, the effective date of the statute), will be processed according to the E-3 statutory terms and the E-3 processing procedures published on July 19, 2005 in the
Federal Register
at 74 FR 41434.
(4)
H-1B1 visas:
Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, subparts H and I of this part apply to all employers seeking to employ foreign workers under the H-1B1 visa classification in specialty occupations described in INA section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b1) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b1)), under the U.S.-Chile and U.S.-Singapore Free Trade Agreements as long as the Agreements are in effect. (INA section 214(g)(8)(A) (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)(8)(A)). This paragraph (c)(4) applies to H-1B1 labor condition applications filed on or after November 23, 2004. Further, H-1B1 labor condition applications filed prior to that date but on or after January 1, 2004, the effective date of the H-1B1 program, will be handled according to the H-1B1 statutory terms and the H-1B1 processing procedures as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(d)
Nonimmigrants on E-3 or H-1B1 visas
—(1)
Exclusions.
The following sections in this subpart and in subpart I of this part do not apply to E-3 and H-1B1 nonimmigrants, but apply only to H-1B nonimmigrants: §§ 655.700(a), (b), (c)(1) and (2); 655.710(b); 655.730(d)(5) and (e); 655.735; 655.736; 655.737; 655.738; 655.739; 655.760(a)(7), (8), (9), and (10); and 655.805(a)(7), (8), and (9). Further, the following references in subparts H or I of this part, whether in the excluded sections listed above or elsewhere, do not apply to E-3 and H-1B1 nonimmigrants, but apply only to H-1B nonimmigrants: references to fashion models of distinguished merit and ability (H-1B visas, but not H-1B1 and E-3 visas, are available to such fashion models); references to a petition process before USCIS (the petition process applies only to H-1B, but not to initial H-1B1 and E-3 visas unless it is a petition to accord a change of status); references to additional attestation obligations of H-1B-dependent employers and employers found to have willfully violated the H-1B program requirements (these provisions do not apply to the H-1B1 and E-3 programs); and references in § 655.750(a) or elsewhere in this part to the provision in INA section 214(n) (formerly INA section 214(m)) (8 U.S.C. 1184(n)) regarding increased portability of H-1B status (by the statutory terms, the portability provision is inapplicable to H-1B1 and E-3 nonimmigrants).
(2)
Terminology.
For purposes of subparts H and I of this part, except in those sections identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section as inapplicable to E-3 and H-1B1 nonimmigrants and as otherwise excluded:
(i) The term “H-1B” includes “E-3” and “H-1B1” (INA section 101(a)(15)(E)(iii) and (a)(15)(H)(i)(b1)) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)(iii) and (a)(15)(H)(i)(b1)); and
(ii) The term “labor condition application” or “LCA” includes a labor attestation made under section 212(t)(1) of the INA for an E-3 or H-1B1 nonimmigrant professional classified under INA section 101(a)(15)(E)(iii) and (a)(15)(H)(i)(b1) (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)(iii) and (a)(15)(H)(i)(b1)).
(3)
Filing procedures for E-3 and H-1B1 labor attestations.
Employers seeking to employ an E-3 or H-1B1 nonimmigrant must submit a completed ETA Form
9035 or ETA Form 9035E (electronic) to DOL in the manner prescribed in §§ 655.720 and 655.730. Employers must indicate on the form whether the labor condition application is for an “E-3 Australia,” “H-1B1 Chile,” or “H-1B1 Singapore” nonimmigrant. Any changes in the procedures and instructions for submitting labor condition applications will be provided in a notice published in the
Federal Register
and posted on the ETA Web site at
http://www.foreignlaborcert.doleta.gov/.
(4)
Employer's responsibilities regarding E-3 and H-1B1 labor attestation.
Each employer seeking an E-3 or H-1B1 nonimmigrant in a specialty occupation has several responsibilities, as described more fully in subparts H and I of this part, including the following:
(i) By submitting a signed and completed LCA, the employer makes certain representations and agrees to several attestations regarding the employer's responsibilities, including the wages, working conditions, and benefits to be provided to the E-3 or H-1B1 nonimmigrant. These attestations are specifically identified and incorporated in the LCA, and are fully described on Form ETA 9035CP (cover pages).
(ii) The employer reaffirms its acceptance of all of the attestation obligations by transmitting the certified labor attestation to the nonimmigrant, the Department of State, and/or the USCIS according to the procedures of those agencies.
(iii) The employer shall maintain the original signed and certified LCA in its files, and shall make a copy of the filed LCA, as well as necessary supporting documentation (as identified under this subpart), available for public examination in a public access file at the employer's principal place of business in the U.S. or at the place of employment within one working day after the date on which the LCA is filed with ETA.
(iv) The employer shall develop sufficient documentation to meet its burden of proof, in the event that such statement or information is challenged, with respect to the validity of the statements made in its LCA and the accuracy of information provided. The employer shall also maintain such documentation at its principal place of business in the U.S. and shall make such documentation available to DOL for inspection and copying upon request.
(5)
Application to Chile.
During the period that the provisions of Chapter 14 and Section D of Annex 14.3 of the United States-Chile Free Trade Agreement (Chile FTA) are in effect, this subpart H and subpart I of this part shall apply (except for the provisions excluded under paragraph (d)(1) of this section) to the temporary entry and employment of a nonimmigrant who is a national of Chile under the provisions of Article 14.9 and Annex 2.1 of the Chile FTA and who is a professional under the provisions of Annex 14.3(D) of the Chile FTA.
(6)
Application to Singapore.
During the period that the provisions of Section IV of Annex 11A of the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (Singapore FTA) are in effect, this subpart H and subpart I of this part shall apply (except for the provisions excluded under paragraph (d)(1) of this section) to the temporary entry and employment of a nonimmigrant who is a national of Singapore under the provisions of Chapter 11 and Section IV of Annex 11A of the Singapore FTA and who is a professional under the provisions of Annex 11A(IV) of the Singapore FTA.
[65 FR 80209, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 63300, Dec. 5, 2001; 69 FR 68226, Nov. 23, 2004; 70 FR 72560, Dec. 5, 2005; 71 FR 35520, 35521, June 21, 2006; 71 FR 37804, June 30, 2006; 73 FR 19947, Apr. 11, 2008]
§ 655.705
What Federal agencies are involved in the H-1B and H-1B1 programs, and what are the responsibilities of those agencies and of employers?
Four federal agencies (Department of Labor, Department of State, Department of Justice, and Department of Homeland Security) are involved in the process relating to H-1B nonimmigrant classification and employment. The employer also has continuing responsibilities under the process. This section briefly describes the responsibilities of each of these entities.
(a)
Department of Labor (DOL) responsibilities.
DOL administers the labor
condition application process and enforcement provisions (exclusive of complaints regarding non-selection of U.S. workers, as described in 8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(G)(i)(II) and 1182(n)(5)). Two DOL agencies have responsibilities:
(1) The Employment and Training Administration (ETA) is responsible for receiving and certifying labor condition applications (LCAs) in accordance with this subpart H. ETA is also responsible for compiling and maintaining a list of LCAs and makes such list available for public examination at the Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room C-4312, Washington, DC 20210.
(2) The Wage and Hour Division of the Employment Standards Administration (ESA) is responsible, in accordance with subpart I of this part, for investigating and determining an employer's misrepresentation in or failure to comply with LCAs in the employment of H-1B nonimmigrants.
(b)
Department of Justice (DOJ), Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Department of State (DOS) responsibilities.
The Department of State, through U.S. Embassies and Consulates, is responsible for issuing H-1B, H-1B1, and E-3 visas. For H-1B visas, the following agencies are involved: DHS accepts the employer's petition (DHS Form I-129) with the DOL-certified LCA attached. In doing so, the DHS determines whether the petition is supported by an LCA which corresponds with the petition, whether the occupation named in the labor condition application is a specialty occupation or whether the individual is a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability, and whether the qualifications of the nonimmigrant meet the statutory requirements for H-1B visa classification. If the petition is approved, DHS will notify the U.S. Consulate where the nonimmigrant intends to apply for the visa unless the nonimmigrant is in the U.S. and eligible to adjust status without leaving this country. See 8 U.S.C. 1255(h)(2)(B)(i). The Department of Justice administers the system for the enforcement and disposition of complaints regarding an H-1B-dependent employer's or willful violator employer's failure to offer a position filled by an H-1B nonimmigrant to an equally or better qualified United States worker (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(E), 1182(n)(5)), or such employer's willful misrepresentation of material facts relating to this obligation. DHS, is responsible for disapproving H-1B and other petitions filed by an employer found to have engaged in misrepresentation or failed to meet certain conditions of the labor condition application (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(C)(i)-(iii); 1182(n)(5)(E)). DOL and DOS are involved in the process relating to the initial issuance of H-1B1 and E-3 visas. DHS is involved in change of status and extension of stays for the H-1B1 and E-3 category.
(c)
Employer's responsibilities.
This paragraph applies only to the H-1B program; employer's responsibilities under the H-1B1 and E-3 programs are found at § 655.700(d)(4). Each employer seeking an H-1B nonimmigrant in a specialty occupation or as a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability has several responsibilities, as described more fully in this subpart and subpart I of this part, including:
(1) The employer shall submit a completed labor condition application (LCA) on Form ETA 9035E or Form ETA 9035 in the manner prescribed in § 655.720. By completing and submitting the LCA, and by signing the LCA, the employer makes certain representations and agrees to several attestations regarding its responsibilities, including the wages, working conditions, and benefits to be provided to the H-1B nonimmigrants (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)); these attestations are specifically identified and incorporated by reference in the LCA, as well as being set forth in full on Form ETA 9035CP. The LCA contains additional attestations for certain H-1B-dependent employers and employers found to have willfully violated the H-1B program requirements; these attestations impose certain obligations to recruit U.S. workers, to offer the job to U.S. applicants who are equally or better qualified than the H-1B nonimmigrant(s) sought for the job, and to avoid the displacement of U.S. workers (either in the employer's workforce, or in the workforce of a second employer with whom the H-1B nonimmigrant(s) is placed, where there
are indicia of employment with a second employer (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(E)-(G)). These additional attestations are specifically identified and incorporated by reference in the LCA, as well as being set forth in full on Form ETA 9035CP. If ETA certifies the LCA, notice of the certification will be sent to the employer by the same means the employer used to submit the LCA (that is, electronically where the Form ETA 9035E was submitted electronically, and by U.S. Mail where the Form ETA 9035 was submitted by U.S. Mail). The employer reaffirms its acceptance of all of the attestation obligations by submitting the LCA to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (formerly the Immigration and Naturalization Service or INS) in support of the Petition for Nonimmigrant Worker, Form I-129, for an H-1B nonimmigrant. See 8 CFR 214.2(h)(4)(iii)(B)(2), which specifies the employer will comply with the terms of the LCA for the duration of the H-1B nonimmigrant's authorized period of stay.
(2) The employer shall maintain the original signed and certified LCA in its files, and shall make a copy of the LCA, as well as necessary supporting documentation (as identified under this subpart), available for public examination in a public access file at the employer's principal place of business in the U.S. or at the place of employment within one working day after the date on which the LCA is filed with ETA.
(3) The employer then may submit a copy of the certified, signed LCA to DHS with a completed petition (Form I-129) requesting H-1B classification.
(4) The employer shall not allow the nonimmigrant worker to begin work until DHS grants the alien authorization to work in the United States for that employer or, in the case of a nonimmigrant previously afforded H-1B status who is undertaking employment with a new H-1B employer, until the new employer files a nonfrivolous petition (Form I-129) in accordance with DHS requirements.
(5) The employer shall develop sufficient documentation to meet its burden of proof with respect to the validity of the statements made in its LCA and the accuracy of information provided, in the event that such statement or information is challenged. The employer shall also maintain such documentation at its principal place of business in the U.S. and shall make such documentation available to DOL for inspection and copying upon request.
[65 FR 80210, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 63300, Dec. 5, 2001; 70 FR 72560, Dec. 5, 2005; 71 FR 35520, June 21, 2006; 73 FR 19948, Apr. 11, 2008]
§ 655.710
What is the procedure for filing a complaint?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, complaints concerning misrepresentation in the labor condition application or failure of the employer to meet a condition specified in the application shall be filed with the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division (Administrator), ESA, according to the procedures set forth in subpart I of this part. The Administrator shall investigate where appropriate, and after an opportunity for a hearing, assess appropriate sanctions and penalties, as described in subpart I of this part.
(b) Complaints arising under section 212(n)(1)(G)(i)(II) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(G)(i)(II), alleging failure of the employer to offer employment to an equally or better qualified U.S. applicant, or an employer's misrepresentation regarding such offer(s) of employment, may be filed with the Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Office of Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices, 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20530, Telephone: 1-800-255-8155 (employers), 1-800-255-7688 (employees); Web address:
http://www.usdoj.gov/crt/osc.
The Department of Justice shall investigate where appropriate, and take action as appropriate under that Department's regulations and procedures.
[65 FR 80210, Dec. 20, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 72561, Dec. 5, 2005]
§ 655.715
Definitions.
For the purposes of subparts H and I of this part:
Actual wage
means the wage rate paid by the employer to all individuals with experience and qualifications similar to the H-1B nonimmigant's experience
and qualifications for the specific employment in question at the place of employment. The actual wage established by the employer is
not
an average of the wage rates paid to all workers employed in the occupation.
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
means an official appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor, and such authorized representatives as may be designated to perform any of the functions of the Administrator under subpart H or I of this part.
Aggrieved party
means a person or entity whose operations or interests are adversely affected by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application and includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A worker whose job, wages, or working conditions are adversely affected by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application;
(2) A bargaining representative for workers whose jobs, wages, or working conditions are adversely affected by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application;
(3) A competitor adversely affected by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application; and
(4) A government agency which has a program that is impacted by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application.
Area of intended employment
means the area within normal commuting distance of the place (address) of employment where the H-1B nonimmigrant is or will be employed. There is no rigid measure of distance which constitutes a normal commuting distance or normal commuting area, because there may be widely varying factual circumstances among different areas (e.g., normal commuting distances might be 20, 30, or 50 miles). If the place of employment is within a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) or a Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area (PMSA), any place within the MSA or PMSA is deemed to be within normal commuting distance of the place of employment; however, all locations within a Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area (CMSA) will not automatically be deemed to be within normal commuting distance. The borders of MSAs and PMSAs are not controlling with regard to the identification of the normal commuting area; a location outside of an MSA or PMSA (or a CMSA) may be within normal commuting distance of a location that is inside (e.g., near the border of) the MSA or PMSA (or CMSA).
Attorney General
means the chief official of the U.S. Department of Justice or the Attorney General's designee.
Authorized agent
and
authorized representative
mean an official of the employer who has the legal authority to commit the employer to the statements in the labor condition application.
Center Director
means the Department official to whom the Administrator has delegated his authority for purposes of NPC operations and functions.
Certification
means the determination by a certifying officer that a labor condition application is not incomplete and does not contain obvious inaccuracies.
Certify
means the act of making a certification.
Certifying Officer
means a Department of Labor official, or such official's designee, who makes determinations about whether or not to certify labor condition applications.
Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ)
means the chief official of the Office of the Administrative Law Judges of the Department of Labor or the Chief Administrative Law Judge's designee.
Department
and
DOL
mean the United States Department of Labor.
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
makes the determination under the INA on whether to grant visa petitions of employers seeking the admission of non-immigrants under H-1B visa for the purpose of employment.
Division
means the Wage and Hour Division of the Employment Standards Administration, DOL.
Employed, employed by the employer, or employment relationship
means the employment relationship as determined under the common law, under which the key determinant is the putative employer's right to control the means and manner in which the work is performed. Under the common law, “no shorthand formula or magic phrase * * * can be applied to find the answer * * *. [A]ll of the incidents of the relationship must be assessed and weighed with no one factor being decisive.”
NLRB
v.
United Ins. Co. of America,
390 U.S. 254, 258 (1968).
Employer
means a person, firm, corporation, contractor, or other association or organization in the United States that has an employment relationship with H-1B, H-1B1, or E-3 nonimmigrants and/or U.S. worker(s). In the case of an H-1B nonimmigrant (not including E-3 and H-1B1 nonimmigrants), the person, firm, contractor, or other association or organization in the United States that files a petition with the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on behalf of the nonimmigrant is deemed to be the employer of that nonimmigrant. In the case of an E-3 and H-1B1 nonimmigrant, the person, firm, contractor, or other association or organization in the United States that files an LCA with the Department of Labor on behalf of the nonimmigrant is deemed to be the employer of that nonimmigrant.
Employment and Training Administration (ETA)
means the agency within the Department which includes the Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC).
Employment Standards Administration (ESA)
means the agency within the Department which includes the Wage and Hour Division.
INA
means the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
Independent authoritative source
means a professional, business, trade, educational or governmental association, organization, or other similar entity, not owned or controlled by the employer, which has recognized expertise in an occupational field.
Independent authoritative source survey
means a survey of wages conducted by an independent authoritative source and published in a book, newspaper, periodical, loose-leaf service, newsletter, or other similar medium, within the 24-month period immediately preceding the filing of the employer's application. Such survey shall:
(1) Reflect the average wage paid to workers similarly employed in the area of intended employment;
(2) Be based upon recently collected data—e.g., within the 24-month period immediately preceding the date of publication of the survey; and
(3) Represent the latest published prevailing wage finding by the authoritative source for the occupation in the area of intended employment.
Interested party
means a person or entity who or which may be affected by the actions of an H-1B employer or by the outcome of a particular investigation and includes any person, organization, or entity who or which has notified the Department of his/her/its interest or concern in the Administrator's determination.
Lockout
means a labor dispute involving a work stoppage, wherein an employer withholds work from its employees in order to gain a concession from them.
Occupation
means the occupational or job classification in which the H-1B nonimmigrant is to be employed.
Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC)
means the organizational component within the ETA that provides national leadership and policy guidance and develops regulations and procedures to carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary of Labor under the INA concerning alien workers seeking admission to the United States in order to work under the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended.
Period of intended employment
means the time period between the starting and ending dates inclusive of the H-1B nonimmigrant's intended period of employment in the occupational classification at the place of employment as set forth in the labor condition application.
Place of employment
means the worksite or physical location where the
work actually is performed by the H-1B, H-1B1, or E-3 nonimmigrant.
(1) The term does not include any location where either of the following criteria—paragraph (1)(i) or (ii)—is satisfied:
(i)
Employee developmental activity.
An H-1B worker who is stationed and regularly works at one location may temporarily be at another location for a particular individual or employer-required developmental activity such as a management conference, a staff seminar, or a formal training course (other than “on-the-job-training” at a location where the employee is stationed and regularly works). For the H-1B worker participating in such activities, the location of the activity would not be considered a “place of employment” or “worksite,” and that worker's presence at such location—whether owned or controlled by the employer or by a third party—would not invoke H-1B program requirements with regard to that employee at that location. However, if the employer uses H-1B nonimmigrants as instructors or resource or support staff who continuously or regularly perform their duties at such locations, the locations would be “places of employment” or “worksites” for any such employees and, thus, would be subject to H-1B program requirements with regard to those employees.
(ii)
Particular worker's job functions.
The nature and duration of an H-1B nonimmigrant's job functions may necessitate frequent changes of location with little time spent at any one location. For such a worker, a location would not be considered a “place of employment” or “worksite” if the following three requirements (
i.e.,
paragraphs (1)(ii)(A) through (C)) are all met—
(A) The nature and duration of the H-1B worker's job functions mandates his/her short-time presence at the location. For this purpose, either:
(
1
) The H-1B nonimmigrant's job must be peripatetic in nature, in that the normal duties of the worker's occupation (rather than the nature of the employer's business) requires frequent travel (local or non-local) from location to location; or
(
2
) The H-1B worker's duties must require that he/she spend most work time at one location but occasionally travel for short periods to work at other locations; and
(B) The H-1B worker's presence at the locations to which he/she travels from the “home” worksite is on a casual, short-term basis, which can be recurring but not excessive (
i.e.,
not exceeding five consecutive workdays for any one visit by a peripatetic worker, or 10 consecutive workdays for any one visit by a worker who spends most work time at one location and travels occasionally to other locations); and
(C) The H-1B nonimmigrant is not at the location as a “strikebreaker” (
i.e.,
the H-1B nonimmigrant is not performing work in an occupation in which workers are on strike or lockout).
(2) Examples of “non-worksite” locations based on worker's job functions: A computer engineer sent out to customer locations to “troubleshoot” complaints regarding software malfunctions; a sales representative making calls on prospective customers or established customers within a “home office” sales territory; a manager monitoring the performance of out-stationed employees; an auditor providing advice or conducting reviews at customer facilities; a physical therapist providing services to patients in their homes within an area of employment; an individual making a court appearance; an individual lunching with a customer representative at a restaurant; or an individual conducting research at a library.
(3) Examples of “worksite” locations based on worker's job functions: A computer engineer who works on projects or accounts at different locations for weeks or months at a time; a sales representative assigned on a continuing basis in an area away from his/her “home office;” an auditor who works for extended periods at the customer's offices; a physical therapist who “fills in” for full-time employees of health care facilities for extended periods; or a physical therapist who works for a contractor whose business is to provide staffing on an “as needed” basis at hospitals, nursing homes, or clinics.
