Jan. 15, 2025
Title 20
Employees' Benefits
Part 657 to End
Revised as of April 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of April 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
e:\seals\archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
e:\seals\gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 20:
Chapter V—Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Continued)
3
Chapter VI—Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
403
Chapter VII—Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor
615
Chapter VIII—Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
635
Chapter IX—Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor
671

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
735
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
755
List of CFR Sections Affected
765
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
20 CFR 658.400
refers to title 20, part 658, section 400.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, April 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
April 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 20—
Employees' Benefits
is composed of four volumes. The first volume, containing parts 1-399, includes current regulations issued by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor and the Railroad Retirement Board. The second volume, containing parts 400-499, includes all current regulations issued by the Social Security Administration. The third volume, containing parts 500 to 656, includes current regulations issued by the Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, and the Employment and Training Administration. The fourth volume, containing part 657 to End, includes the current regulations issued by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, the Benefits Review Board, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service (all of the Department of Labor) and the Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of April 1, 2025.
An index to chapter III appears in the second volume.
For this volume, Michele Bugenhagen was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of the John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
20 CFR Ch. IV (4-1-25 Edition)
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Labor

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
(This book contains part 657 to end)
Part
chapter v
—Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Continued)
657
chapter vi
—Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor
701
chapter vii
—Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor
801
chapter viii
—Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
900
chapter ix
—Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor
1001
20 CFR Ch. V (4-1-25 Edition)
Employment and Training Administration, Labor

# CHAPTER V—EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (CONTINUED)
Part
Page
657
Provisions governing grants to State agencies for employment services activities [Reserved]
658
Administrative provisions governing the Wagner-Peyser ActEmployment Service
5
660
Introduction to the regulations for workforce investment systems under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
35
661
Statewide and local governance of the workforce investment system under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
38
662
Description of the one-stop system under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
52
663
Adult and dislocated worker activities under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
59
664
Youth activities under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
75
665
Statewide workforce investment activities under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
83
666
Performance accountability under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
87
667
Administrative provisions under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
93
668
Indian and Native American programs under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
119
669
National farmworker jobs program under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
137
670
The Job Corps under Title I of the Workforce Investment Act
146
671
National emergency grants for dislocated workers
163
672
Provisions governing the Youthbuild Program
166
673-674
[Reserved]
675
Introduction to the regulations for the workforce development systems under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
178
676
Unified and combined State plans under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
182
677
Performance accountability under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
190
678
Description of the one-stop delivery system under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
202
679
Statewide and local governance of the workforce development system under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
226
680
Adult and dislocated worker activities under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
251
681
Youth activities under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
275
682
Statewide activities under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
288
683
Administrative provisions under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
296
684
Indian and Native American Programs under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
329
685
National Farmworker Jobs Program under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
346
686
The Job Corps under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
355
687
National Dislocated Worker Grants
380
688
Provisions governing the Youthbuild Program
385
689-699
[Reserved]
PART 657—PROVISIONS GOVERNING GRANTS TO STATE AGENCIES FOR EMPLOYMENT SERVICES ACTIVITIES [RESERVED]
Pt. 658

# PART 658—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE WAGNER-PEYSER ACT EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Subpart A-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Employment Service and Employment-Related Law Complaint System (Complaint System)
Sec.
658.400
Purpose and scope of subpart.

# Complaints Filed at the Local and State Level
658.410
Establishment of local and State complaint systems.
658.411
Action on complaints.
658.417
State hearings.
658.418
Decision of the State hearing official.
658.419
Apparent violations.

# When a Complaint Rises to the Federal Level
658.420
Responsibilities of the Employment and Training Administration regional office.
658.421
Processing of Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service regulation-related complaints.
658.422
Processing of employment-related law complaints by the Regional Administrator.
658.424
Proceedings before the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
658.425
Decision of Department of Labor Administrative Law Judge.
658.426
Complaints against the United States Employment Service.
658.427
Severability.

# Subpart F—Discontinuation of Services to Employers by the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service
658.500
Scope and purpose of subpart.
658.501
Basis for discontinuation of services.
658.502
Notification to employers of intent to discontinue services.
658.503
Discontinuation of services.
658.504
Reinstatement of services.

# Subpart G—Review and Assessment of State Workforce Agency Compliance With Employment Service Regulations
658.600
Scope and purpose of subpart.
658.601
State Workforce Agency responsibility.
658.602
Employment and Training Administration National Office responsibility.
658.603
Employment and Training Administration regional office responsibility.
658.604
Assessment and evaluation of program performance data.
658.605
Communication of findings to State agencies.

# Subpart H—Federal Application of Remedial Action to State Workforce Agencies
658.700
Scope and purpose of subpart.
658.701
Statements of policy.
658.702
Initial action by the Regional Administrator.
658.703
Emergency corrective action.
658.704
Remedial actions.
658.705
Decision to decertify.
658.706
Notice of decertification.
658.707
Requests for hearings.
658.708
Hearings.
658.709
Conduct of hearings.
658.710
Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
658.711
Decision of the Administrative Review Board.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (July 22, 2014); 29 U.S.C. chapter 4B.

# Source:
81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A-D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Employment Service and Employment-Related Law Complaint System (Complaint System)
§ 658.400
Purpose and scope of subpart.
(a) This subpart sets forth the regulations governing the Complaint System for the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service (ES) at the State and Federal levels. Specifically, the Complaint System processes complaints against an employer about the specific job to which the applicant was referred through the ES and complaints involving the failure to comply with the ES regulations under parts 651, 652, 653, and 654 of this chapter and this part. As noted in § 658.411(d)(6), this subpart only covers ES-related complaints made within 2 years of the alleged violation.
(b) Any complaints alleging violations under the Unemployment Insurance program, under Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) title I programs, or complaints by veterans alleging employer violations of the mandatory listing requirements under 38 U.S.C. 4212 are not covered by this subpart and must be referred to the appropriate administering agency which would follow the procedures set forth in the respective regulations.
(c) The Complaint System also accepts, refers, and, under certain circumstances, tracks complaints involving employment-related laws as defined in § 651.10 of this chapter.
(d) A complainant may designate an individual to act as their representative.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82731, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Complaints Filed at the Local and State Level
§ 658.410
Establishment of local and State complaint systems.
(a) Each State Workforce Agency (SWA) must establish and maintain a Complaint System pursuant to this subpart.
(b) The State Administrator must have overall responsibility for the operation of the Complaint System; this includes responsibility for the informal resolution of complaints. In the ES office, the ES Office Manager is responsible for the operation of the Complaint System.
(c) SWAs must ensure centralized control procedures are established for the processing of complaints and apparent violations. The ES Office Manager and the State Administrator must ensure a central complaint log is maintained, listing all complaints taken by the ES office or the SWA and apparent violations identified by ES staff, and specifying for each complaint or apparent violation:
(1) The name of the complainant (for complaints);
(2) The name of the respondent (employer or State agency);
(3) The date the complaint is filed or the apparent violation was identified;
(4) Whether the complaint is made by or on behalf of a migrant and seasonal farmworker (MSFW) or whether the apparent violation affects an MSFW;
(5) Whether the complaint or apparent violation concerns an employment-related law or the ES regulations; and
(6) The actions taken (including any documents the SWA sent or received and the date the SWA took such action(s)), and whether the complaint or apparent violation has been resolved, including informally.
(d) State agencies must ensure information pertaining to the use of the Complaint System is publicized, which must include, but is not limited to, the prominent display of an Employment and Training Administration (ETA)-approved Complaint System poster in each one-stop center.
(e) Each one-stop center must ensure there is appropriate staff available during regular office hours to take complaints.
(f) Complaints may be accepted in any one-stop center, or by a SWA, or elsewhere by outreach staff.
(g) All complaints filed through the ES office must be processed by a trained Complaint System Representative.
(h) All complaints received by a SWA must be assigned to a trained Complaint System Representative designated by the State Administrator. Complaints must not be assigned to the State Monitor Advocate (SMA).
(i) State agencies must ensure any action taken by the Complaint System Representative, including referral on a complaint from an MSFW, is fully documented and contains all relevant information, including a notation of the type of each complaint pursuant to Department guidance, a copy of the original complaint form, a copy of any ES-related reports, any relevant correspondence, a list of actions taken, a record of pertinent telephone calls, and all correspondence relating thereto.
(j) Within 1 month after the end of the calendar quarter, the ES office manager must transmit an electronic copy of the quarterly Complaint System log described in paragraph (c) of this section to the SMA. These logs must be made available to the Department upon request.
(k) The appropriate ES staff processing a complaint must offer to assist
the complainant through the provision of appropriate services.
(l) The State Administrator must establish a referral system for cases where a complaint is filed alleging a violation that occurred in the same State but through a different ES office.
(m) Follow-up on unresolved complaints. When an MSFW submits a complaint, the Complaint System Representative must follow up monthly on the processing of the complaint and must inform the complainant of the status of the complaint. No follow-up with the complainant is required for non-MSFW complaints.
(n) A complainant may designate an individual to act as their representative throughout the filing and processing of a complaint.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 628, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82731, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.411
Action on complaints.
(a)
Filing complaints.
(1) Whenever an individual indicates an interest in filing a complaint under this subpart with an ES office, the SWA, or outreach staff, the individual receiving the complaint must offer to explain the operation of the Complaint System and must offer to take the complaint in writing.
(2) During the initial discussion with the complainant, the staff taking the complaint must:
(i) Make every effort to obtain all the information they perceive to be necessary to investigate the complaint;
(ii) Request that the complainant indicate all of the physical addresses, email addresses, telephone numbers, and any other helpful means by which they might be contacted during the investigation of the complaint; and
(iii) Request that the complainant contact the Complaint System Representative before leaving the area if possible, and explain the need to maintain contact during the investigation.
(3) The staff must ensure the complainant (or their representative) submits the complaint on the Complaint/Referral Form or another complaint form prescribed or approved by the Department or submits complaint information which satisfies paragraph (a)(4) of this section. The Complaint/Referral Form must be used for all complaints, including complaints about unlawful discrimination, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. The staff must offer to assist the complainant in filling out the form and submitting all necessary information and must do so if the complainant desires such assistance. If the complainant also represents several other complainants, all such complainants must be named. The complainant, or their representative, must sign the completed form in writing or electronically. The identity of the complainant(s) and any persons who furnish information relating to, or assisting in, an investigation of a complaint must be kept confidential to the maximum extent possible, consistent with applicable law and a fair determination of the complaint. A copy of the completed complaint submission must be given to the complainant(s), and the complaint form must be given to the appropriate Complaint System Representative described in § 658.410(g).
(4) Any complaint in a reasonable form (letter or email) which is signed by the complainant, or their representative, and includes sufficient information to initiate an investigation must be treated as if it were a properly completed Complaint/Referral Form filed in person.A letter (via hard copy or email) confirming the complaint was received must be sent to the complainant and the document must be sent to the appropriate Complaint System Representative. The Complaint System Representative must request additional information from the complainant if the complainant has not provided sufficient information to investigate the matter expeditiously.
(b)
Complaints regarding an employment-related law.
(1) When a complaint is filed regarding an employment-related law with an ES office or a SWA, and paragraph (c) of this section does not apply, the office must determine if the complainant is an MSFW.
(i) If the complainant is a non-MSFW, the office must immediately refer the complainant to the appropriate enforcement agency, another public agency, a legal aid organization, and/or a consumer advocate organization, as appropriate, for assistance. Upon completing the referral, the local
or State representative is not required to follow up with the complainant.
(ii) If the complainant is a MSFW, the ES office or SWA Complaint System Representative must:
(A) Take from the MSFW or their representative, in writing (hard copy or electronic), the complaint(s) describing the alleged violation(s) of the employment-related law(s); and
(B) Attempt to resolve the issue informally at the local level, except in cases where the complaint was submitted to the SWA and the Complaint System Representative determines that they must take immediate action or in cases where informal resolution at the local level would be detrimental to the complainant(s). In cases where informal resolution at the local level would be detrimental to the complainant(s), the Complaint System Representative must immediately refer the complaint to the appropriate enforcement agency. Concurrently, the Complaint System Representative must offer to refer the MSFW to other ES services should the MSFW be interested.
(C) If the issue is not resolved within 5 business days, the Complaint System Representative must refer the complaint to the appropriate enforcement agency (or another public agency, a legal aid organization, or a consumer advocate organization, as appropriate) for further assistance.
(D) If the ES office or SWA Complaint System Representative determines that the complaint must be referred to a State or Federal agency, they must refer the complaint immediately to the appropriate enforcement agency for prompt action.
(E) If the complaint was referred under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D) of this section, the representative must notify the complainant of the enforcement agency to which the complaint was referred.
(F) When a complaint alleges an employer in a different State from where the complaint is filed has violated an employment-related law:
(
1
) The ES office or SWA receiving the complaint must ensure the Complaint/Referral Form is adequately completed and then immediately send a copy of the Complaint/Referral Form and copies of any relevant documents to the SWA in the other State. Copies of the referral letter must be sent to the complainant, and copies of the complaint and referral letter must be sent to the ETA Regional Office(s) with jurisdiction over the transferring and receiving State agencies. All such copies must be sent via hard copy or electronic mail.
(
2
) The SWA receiving the complaint must process the complaint as if it had been initially filed with that SWA.
(
3
) The ETA Regional Office with jurisdiction over the receiving SWA must follow up with it to ensure the complaint is processed in accordance with these regulations.
(2) If an enforcement agency makes a final determination that the employer violated an employment-related law and the complaint is connected to a job order, the SWA must initiate procedures for discontinuation of services immediately in accordance with subpart F of this part. If this occurs, the SWA must notify the complainant and the employer of this action.
(c)
Complaints alleging unlawful discrimination or reprisal for protected activity.
All complaints received under this subpart by an ES office or a SWA alleging unlawful discrimination or reprisal for protected activity in violation of nondiscrimination laws, such as those enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) or the Department of Labor's Civil Rights Center (CRC), or in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act's anti-discrimination provision found at 8 U.S.C. 1324b, must be logged and immediately referred to the State-level E.O. Officer. The Complaint System Representative must notify the complainant of the referral in writing.
(2) Any complaints received either at the local and State level or at the ETA regional office, that allege violations of civil rights laws and regulations such as those under title VI of the Civil Rights Act or sec. 188 of WIOA, including for beneficiaries (as defined in 29 CFR 38.4) only, on the basis of citizenship status or participant status, as well as reprisal for protected activity, must immediately be logged and directed or forwarded to the recipient's Equal Opportunity Officer or the CRC.
(d)
Complaints regarding the ES regulations (ES complaints).
(1) When an ES complaint is filed with an ES office or a SWA, and paragraph (c) of this section does not apply, the following procedures apply:
(i) When an ES complaint is filed against an employer, the proper office to process the complaint is the ES office serving the area in which the employer is located.
(ii) When a complaint is against an employer in another State or against another SWA:
(A) The ES office or SWA receiving the complaint must ensure the Complaint/Referral Form is adequately completed, and then immediately send a copy of the Complaint/Referral Form and copies of any relevant documents to the SWA in the other State. Copies of the referral letter must be sent to the complainant, and copies of the complaint and referral letter must be sent to the ETA Regional Office(s) with jurisdiction over the transferring and receiving State agencies. All such copies must be sent via hard copy or electronic mail.
(B) The SWA receiving the complaint must process the complaint as if it had been initially filed with that SWA.
(C) The ETA Regional Office with jurisdiction over the receiving SWA must follow up with it to ensure the complaint is processed in accordance with these regulations.
(D) If the complaint is against more than one SWA, the complaint must so clearly state. Additionally, the complaints must be processed as separate complaints and must be processed according to procedures in this paragraph (d).
(iii) When an ES complaint is filed against an ES office, the proper office to process the complaint is the ES office serving the area in which the alleged violation occurred.
(iv) When an ES complaint is filed against more than one ES offices and is in regard to an alleged agency-wide violation, the SWA representative or their designee must process the complaint.
(v) When a complaint is filed alleging a violation that occurred in the same State but through a different ES office, the ES office where the complaint is filed must ensure that the Complaint/Referral Form is adequately completed and send the form to the appropriate local ES office for tracking, further referral if necessary, and follow-up. A copy of the referral letter must be sent to the complainant via hard copy or electronic mail.
(2)(i) If a complaint regarding an alleged violation of the ES regulations is filed in a ES office by either a non-MSFW or MSFW, or their representative(s) (or if all necessary information has been submitted to the office pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section), the appropriate ES office Complaint System Representative must investigate and attempt to resolve the complaint immediately upon receipt.
(ii) If resolution has not been achieved to the satisfaction of the complainant within 15 working days after receipt of the complaint, or 5 working days with respect to complaints filed by or on behalf of MSFWs, (or after all necessary information has been submitted to the ES office pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section), the Complaint System Representative must send the complaint to the SWA for resolution or further action.
(iii) The ES office must notify the complainant and the respondent, in writing (via hard copy or electronic mail), of the determination (pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section) of its investigation under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, or of the referral to the SWA (if referred).
(3) When a non-MSFW or their representative files a complaint regarding the ES regulations with a SWA, or when a non-MSFW complaint is referred from an ES office the following procedures apply:
(i) If the complaint is not transferred to an enforcement agency under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section the Complaint System Representative must investigate and attempt to resolve the complaint immediately upon receipt.
(ii) If resolution at the SWA level has not been accomplished within 30 working days after the complaint was received by the SWA (or after all necessary information has been submitted to the SWA pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section), whether the complaint was received directly or from an
ES office pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the SWA official must make a written determination regarding the complaint and must send electronic copies to the complainant and the respondent. The determination must follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(4)(i) When a MSFW or their representative files a complaint regarding the ES regulations directly with a SWA, or when a MSFW complaint is referred from an ES office, the Complaint System Representative must investigate and attempt to resolve the complaint immediately upon receipt and may, if necessary, conduct a further investigation.
(ii) If resolution at the SWA level has not been accomplished within 20 business days after the complaint was received by the SWA (or after all necessary information has been submitted to the SWA pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section), the Complaint System Representative must make a written determination regarding the complaint and must send electronic copies to the complainant and the respondent. The determination must follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(5)(i) All written determinations by the SWA on complaints under the ES regulations must be sent by certified mail (or another legally viable method) and a copy of the determination may be sent via electronic mail. The determination must include all the following:
(A) The results of any SWA investigation;
(B) The conclusions reached on the allegations of the complaint;
(C) If a resolution was not reached, an explanation of why the complaint was not resolved; and
(D) If the complaint is against the SWA, an offer to the complainant of the opportunity to request, in writing, a hearing within 20 business days after the certified date of receipt of the notification.
(ii) If the SWA determines that the employer has not violated the ES regulations, the SWA must offer to the complainant the opportunity to request, in writing, a hearing within 20 business days after the certified date of receipt of the notification.
(iii) If the SWA, within 20 business days from the certified date of receipt of the notification provided for in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, receives a written request (via hard copy or electronic mail) for a hearing, the SWA must refer the complaint to a State hearing official for hearing. The SWA must, in writing (via hard copy or electronic mail), notify the respective parties to whom the determination was sent that:
(A) The parties will be notified of the date, time, and place of the hearing;
(B) The parties may be represented at the hearing by an attorney or other representative;
(C) The parties may bring witnesses and/or documentary evidence to the hearing;
(D) The parties may cross-examine opposing witnesses at the hearing;
(E) The decision on the complaint will be based on the evidence presented at the hearing;
(F) The State hearing official may reschedule the hearing at the request of a party or its representative; and
(G) With the consent of the SWA and of the State hearing official, the party who requested the hearing may withdraw the request for the hearing in writing before the hearing.
(iv) If the State agency makes a final determination that the employer who has or is currently using the ES has violated the ES regulations, the determination, pursuant to paragraph (d)(5) of this section, must state that the State will initiate procedures for discontinuation of services to the employer in accordance with subpart F of this part.
(6) A complaint regarding the ES regulations must be processed to resolution by these regulations only if it is made within 2 years of the alleged occurrence.
(e)
Resolution of complaints.
A complaint is considered resolved when:
(1) The complainant indicates satisfaction with the outcome via written correspondence;
(2) The complainant chooses not to elevate the complaint to the next level of review;
(3) The complainant or the complainant's authorized representative fails to respond to a request for information under paragraph (a)(4) of this section within 20 working days or, in cases where the complainant is an MSFW, 40 working days of a written request by the appropriate ES office or State agency;
(4) The complainant exhausts all available options for review; or
(5) A final determination has been made by the enforcement agency to which the complaint was referred.
(f)
Reopening of case after resolution.
If the complainant or the complainant's authorized representative fails to respond pursuant to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the complainant or the complainant's authorized representative may reopen the case within 1 year after the SWA has closed the case.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 629, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82731, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.417
State hearings.
(a) The hearing described in § 658.411(d)(5) must be held by State hearing officials. A State hearing official may be any State official authorized to hold hearings under State law. Examples of hearing officials are referees in State unemployment compensation hearings and officials of the State agency authorized to preside at State administrative hearings.
(b) The State hearing official may decide to conduct hearings on more than one complaint concurrently if they determine that the issues are related or that the complaints will be processed more expeditiously if conducted together.
(c) The State hearing official, upon the referral of a case for a hearing, must:
(1) Notify all involved parties of the date, time, and place of the hearing; and
(2) Reschedule the hearing, as appropriate.
(d) In conducting a hearing, the State hearing official must:
(1) Regulate the course of the hearing;
(2) Issue subpoenas if necessary, provided the official has the authority to do so under State law;
(3) Ensure that all relevant issues are considered;
(4) Rule on the introduction of evidence and testimony; and
(5) Take all actions necessary to ensure an orderly proceeding.
(e) All testimony at the hearing must be recorded and may be transcribed when appropriate.
(f) The parties must be afforded the opportunity to present, examine, and cross-examine witnesses.
(g) The State hearing official may elicit testimony from witnesses, but may not act as advocate for any party.
(h) The State hearing official must receive and include in the record, documentary evidence offered by any party and accepted at the hearing. Copies thereof must be made available by the party submitting the document to other parties to the hearing upon request.
(i) Federal and State rules of evidence do not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this section; however rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination, must be applied where reasonably necessary by the State hearing official. The State hearing official may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.
(j) The case record, or any portion thereof, must be available for inspection and copying by any party at, prior to, or subsequent to the hearing upon request. Special procedures may be used for disclosure of medical and psychological records such as disclosure to a physician designated by the individual.
(k) The State hearing official must, if feasible, resolve the dispute at any time prior to the conclusion of the hearing.
(l) At the State hearing official's discretion, other appropriate individuals, organizations, or associations may be permitted to participate in the hearing as amicus curiae (friends of the court) with respect to any legal or factual issues relevant to the complaint. Any documents submitted by the amicus curiae must be included in the record.
(m) If the parties to the hearing are located in more than one State or are
located in the same State but access to the hearing location is extremely inconvenient for one or more parties as determined by the State hearing official, the hearing official must:
(1) Whenever possible, hold a single hearing at a location convenient to all parties or their representatives wishing to appear and present evidence, with all such parties and/or their representatives present.
(2) If a hearing location cannot be established by the State hearing official under paragraph (m)(1) of this section, the State hearing official may conduct, with the consent of the parties, the hearing by a telephone conference call from a State agency office. If the hearing is conducted via telephone conference call the parties and their representatives must have the option to participate in person or via telephone.
(3) Where the State agency is not able, for any reason, to conduct a telephonic hearing under paragraph (m)(2) of this section, the State agencies in the States where the parties are located must take evidence and hold the hearing in the same manner as used for appealed interstate unemployment claims in those States, to the extent that such procedures are consistent with this section.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82732, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.418
Decision of the State hearing official.
(a) The State hearing official may:
(1) Rule that it lacks jurisdiction over the case;
(2) Rule that the complaint has been withdrawn properly in writing;
(3) Rule that reasonable cause exists to believe that the request has been abandoned; or
(4) Render such other rulings as are appropriate to resolve the issues in question.
However, the State hearing official does not have authority or jurisdiction to consider the validity or constitutionality of the ES regulations or of the Federal statutes under which they are promulgated.
(b) Based on the entire record, including the investigations and determinations of the ES offices and State agencies and any evidence provided at the hearing, the State hearing official must prepare a written decision. The State hearing official must send a copy of the decision stating the findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons therefor to the complainant, the respondent, entities serving as amicus capacity (if any), the State agency, the Regional Administrator, and the Solicitor of Labor, Attn: Associate Solicitor for Employment and Training Legal Services, Department of Labor, Room N2101, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210. The notification to the complainant and respondent must be sent by certified mail or by other legally viable means.
(c) All decisions of a State hearing official must be accompanied by a written notice informing the parties (not including the Regional Administrator, the Solicitor of Labor, or entities serving in an amicus capacity) that they may appeal the judge's decision within 20 working days of the certified date of receipt of the decision, and they may file an appeal in writing with the Regional Administrator. The notice must give the address of the Regional Administrator.
§ 658.419
Apparent violations.
(a) If an ES staff member observes, has reason to believe, or is in receipt of information regarding an apparent violation, except as part of a field check under § 653.503 of this chapter, the staff member must document the apparent violation and refer it to the ES Office Manager, who must ensure the apparent violation is documented in the Complaint System log, as described at § 658.410.
(b) If the employer has filed a job order with the ES office within the past 12 months, the ES office must attempt informal resolution provided at § 658.411.
(c) If the employer has not filed a job order with the ES office during the past 12 months, the suspected violation of an employment-related law must be referred to the appropriate enforcement agency in writing.
(d) Apparent violations of nondiscrimination laws must be processed
according to the procedures described in § 658.411(c).
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 629, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82732, Nov. 24, 2023]

# When a Complaint Rises to the Federal Level
§ 658.420
Responsibilities of the Employment and Training Administration regional office.
(a) Each Regional Administrator must establish and maintain a Complaint System within each ETA regional office.
(b) The Regional Administrator must designate Department of Labor officials to process ES regulation-related complaints as follows:
(1) All complaints received at the ETA regional office under this subpart that allege unlawful discrimination or reprisal for protected activity in violation of nondiscrimination laws, such as those enforced by the EEOC or CRC, or in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act's anti-discrimination provision found at 8 U.S.C. 1324b, must be logged and immediately referred to the appropriate State-level E.O. Officer(s).
(2) All complaints other than those described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be assigned to a regional office official designated by the Regional Administrator, provided that the regional office official designated to process MSFW complaints must be the Regional Monitor Advocate (RMA).
(c) Except for those complaints under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Regional Administrator must designate Department of Labor officials to process employment-related law complaints in accordance with § 658.422, provided that the regional official designated to process MSFW employment-related law complaints must be the RMA. The RMA must follow up monthly on all complaints filed by MSFWs including complaints under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(d) The Regional Administrator must ensure that all complaints and all related documents and correspondence are logged with a notation of the nature of each item.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended 88 FR 82733, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.421
Processing of Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service regulation-related complaints.
(a)(1) Except as provided below in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no complaint alleging a violation of the ES regulations may be processed at the ETA regional office level until the complainant has exhausted the SWA administrative remedies set forth at §§ 658.411 through 658.418. If the Regional Administrator determines that a complaint has been prematurely filed with an ETA regional office, the Regional Administrator must inform the complainant within 10 working days in writing that the complainant must first exhaust those remedies before the complaint may be filed in the regional office. A copy of this letter and a copy of the complaint also must be sent to the State Administrator.
(2) If a complaint is submitted directly to the Regional Administrator and if they determine that the nature and scope of a complaint described in paragraph (a) of this section is such that the time required to exhaust the administrative procedures at the SWA level would adversely affect a significant number of individuals, the RA must accept the complaint and take the following action:
(i) If the complaint is filed against an employer, the regional office must process the complaint in a manner consistent with the requirements imposed upon State agencies by §§ 658.411 and 658.418.A hearing must be offered to the parties once the Regional Administrator makes a determination on the complaint.
(ii) If the complaint is filed against a SWA, the regional office must follow procedures established at § 658.411(d).
(b) The ETA regional office is responsible for processing appeals of determinations made on complaints at the SWA level. An appeal includes any letter or other writing which the Regional Administrator reasonably understands to be requesting review if it is received by the regional office and signed by a party to the complaint.
(c)(1) Once the Regional Administrator receives a timely appeal, they must request the complete SWA file, including the original Complaint/Referral Form from the appropriate SWA.
(2) The Regional Administrator must review the file in the case and must determine within 10 business days whether any further investigation or action is appropriate; however, if the Regional Administrator determines that they need to request legal advice from the Office of the Solicitor at the U.S. Department of Labor, then the Regional Administrator is allowed 20 business days to make this determination.
(d) If the Regional Administrator determines that no further action is warranted, the Regional Administrator will send their determination in writing to the appellant within 5 days of the determination, with a notification that the appellant may request a hearing before a Department of Labor Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) by filing a hearing request in writing with the Regional Administrator within 20 working days of the appellant's receipt of the notification.
(e) If the Regional Administrator determines that further investigation or other action is warranted, the Regional Administrator must undertake such an investigation or other action necessary to resolve the complaint.
(f) After taking the actions described in paragraph (e) of this section, the Regional Administrator must either affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the State hearing official, and must notify each party to the State hearing official's hearing or to whom the State office determination was sent, notice of the determination and notify the parties that they may appeal the determination to the Department of Labor's Office of Administrative Law Judges within 20 business days of the party's receipt of the notice.
(g) If the Regional Administrator finds reason to believe that a SWA or one of its ES offices has violated ES regulations, the Regional Administrator must follow the procedures set forth at subpart H of this part.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82733, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.422
Processing of employment-related law complaints by the Regional Administrator.
(a) This section applies to all complaints submitted directly to the Regional Administrator or their representative.
(b) Each complaint filed by an MSFW alleging violation(s) of employment-related laws must be taken in writing, logged, and referred to the appropriate enforcement agency for prompt action. If such a complaint alleges a violation of nondiscrimination laws or reprisal for protected activity, it must be referred to the appropriate State-level E.O. Officer in accordance with § 658.420(b)(1).
(c) Each complaint submitted by a non-MSFW alleging violation(s) of employment-related laws must be logged and referred to the appropriate enforcement agency for prompt action. If such a complaint alleges a violation of nondiscrimination laws or reprisal for protected activity, it must be referred to the appropriate State-level E.O. Officer in accordance with § 658.420(b)(1).
(d) Upon referring the complaint in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the regional official must inform the complainant of the enforcement agency (and individual, if known) to which the complaint was referred.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82733, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.424
Proceedings before the Office of Administrative Law Judges.
(a) If a party requests a hearing pursuant to § 658.421 or § 658.707, the Regional Administrator must:
(1) Send the party requesting the hearing, and all other parties to the prior State level hearing, a written notice (hard copy or electronic) that the matter will be referred to the Office of Administrative Law Judges for a hearing;
(2) Compile four hearing files (hard copy or electronic) containing copies of all documents relevant to the case, indexed and compiled chronologically; and
(3) Send simultaneously one hearing file to the Department of Labor Chief Administrative Law Judge, 800 K Street NW., Suite 400N, Washington, DC 20001-8002, one hearing file to the OWI Administrator, and one hearing file to the Solicitor of Labor, Attn: Associate Solicitor for Employment and
Training Legal Services, and retain one hearing file.
(b) Proceedings under this section are governed by the rules of practice and procedure at subpart A of 29 CFR part 18, Rule of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings before the Office of Administrative Law Judges, except where otherwise specified in this section or at § 658.425.
(c) Upon receipt of a hearing file, the ALJ designated to the case must notify the party requesting the hearing, all parties to the prior State hearing official hearing (if any), the State agency, the Regional Administrator, the OWI Administrator, and the Solicitor of Labor of the receipt of the case. After conferring all the parties, the ALJ may decide to make a determination on the record in lieu of scheduling a hearing.
(d) The ALJ may decide to consolidate cases and conduct hearings on more than one complaint concurrently if they determine that the issues are related or that the complaints will be processed more expeditiously.
(e) If the parties to the hearing are located in more than one State or are located in the same State but access to the hearing location is extremely inconvenient for one or more parties as determined by the ALJ, the ALJ must:
(1) Whenever possible, hold a single hearing, at a location convenient to all parties or their representatives wishing to appear and present evidence, with all such parties and/or their representatives present.
(2) If a hearing location cannot be established by the ALJ at a location pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the ALJ may conduct, with the consent of the parties, the hearing by a telephone conference call. If the hearing is conducted via telephone conference call the parties and their representatives must have the option to participate in person or via telephone.
(3) Where the ALJ is unable, for any reason, to conduct a telephonic hearing under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the ALJ must confer with the parties on how to proceed.
(f) Upon deciding to hold a hearing, the ALJ must notify all involved parties of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
(g) The parties to the hearing must be afforded the opportunity to present, examine, and cross-examine witnesses. The ALJ may elicit testimony from witnesses, but may not act as advocate for any party. The ALJ has the authority to issue subpoenas.
(h) The ALJ must receive, and make part of the record, documentary evidence offered by any party and accepted at the hearing, provided that copies of such evidence is provided to the other parties to the proceeding prior to the hearing at the time required by the ALJ.
(i) Technical rules of evidence do not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this part, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination must be applied where reasonably necessary by the ALJ conducting the hearing. The ALJ may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.
(j) The case record, or any portion thereof, must be available for inspection and copying by any party to the hearing at, prior to, or subsequent to the hearing upon request. Special procedures may be used for disclosure of medical and psychological records such as disclosure to a physician designated by the individual concerned.
(k) The ALJ must, if feasible, encourage resolution of the dispute by conciliation at any time prior to the conclusion of the hearing.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 82733, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.425
Decision of Department of Labor Administrative Law Judge.
(a) The ALJ may:
(1) Rule that they lack jurisdiction over the case:
(2) Rule that the appeal has been withdrawn, with the written consent of all parties;
(3) Rule that reasonable cause exists to believe that the appeal has been abandoned; or
(4) Render such other rulings as are appropriate to the issues in question. However, the ALJ does not have jurisdiction to consider the validity or constitutionality of the ES regulations or
of the Federal statutes under which they are promulgated.
(b) Based on the entire record, including any legal briefs, the record before the State agency, the investigation (if any) and determination of the Regional Administrator, and evidence provided at the hearing, the ALJ must prepare a written decision. The ALJ must send a copy of the decision stating the findings of fact and conclusions of law to the parties to the hearing, including the State agency, the Regional Administrator, the OWI Administrator, and the Solicitor, and to entities filing amicus briefs (if any).
(c) The decision of the ALJ serves as the final decision of the Secretary.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82733, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.426
Complaints against the United States Employment Service.
(a) Complaints alleging that an ETA regional office or the National Office has violated ES regulations must be mailed to the Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Such complaints must include:
(1) A specific allegation of the violation;
(2) The date of the incident;
(3) Location of the incident;
(4) The individual alleged to have committed the violation; and
(5) Any other relevant information available to the complainant.
(b) The Assistant Secretary or the Regional Administrator as designated must make a determination and respond to the complainant after investigation of the complaint.
§ 658.427
Severability.
Should a court hold any portion of any provision of this part to be invalid, the provision will be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding is one of total invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision or subprovision will be severable from this part and will not affect the remainder thereof.
[88 FR 82733, Nov. 24, 2023]

# Subpart F—Discontinuation of Services to Employers by the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service
§ 658.500
Scope and purpose of subpart.
(a) This subpart contains the regulations governing the discontinuation of services provided by the ES to employers pursuant to parts 652 and 653 of this chapter.
(b) For purposes of this subpart only, where the term “employer” is used, it refers to employers, agents, farm labor contractors, joint employers, and successors in interest to any employer, agent, farm labor contractor, or joint employer, as defined at § 651.10 of this chapter. A successor in interest to an employer, agent, or farm labor contractor may be held liable for the duties and obligations of that employer, agent, or farm labor contractor for purposes of recruitment of workers through the ES clearance system or enforcement of ES regulations, regardless of whether such successor in interest has succeeded to all the rights and liabilities of the predecessor entity.
[89 FR 34065, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 658.501
Basis for discontinuation of services.
(a) SWA officials must initiate procedures for discontinuation of services to employers who:
(1) Submit and refuse to correct or withdraw job orders containing terms and conditions that are contrary to employment-related laws;
(2) Submit job orders and refuse to provide assurances, or refuse to withdraw job orders that do not contain assurances, required pursuant to the Agricultural Recruitment System for U.S. Workers at part 653, subpart F, of this chapter;
(3) Are found through field checks or otherwise to have either misrepresented the terms or conditions of employment specified on job orders or failed to comply fully with assurances made on job orders;
(4) Are found by a final determination by an appropriate enforcement agency to have violated any employment-related laws and notification of
this final determination has been provided to the Department or the SWA by that enforcement agency, including those who are currently debarred from participating in the H-2A or H-2B foreign labor certification programs pursuant to § 655.73 or § 655.182 of this chapter or 29 CFR 501.20 or 503.24;
(5) Are found to have violated ES regulations pursuant to § 658.411 or § 658.419;
(6) Refuse to accept qualified workers referred through the clearance system for criteria clearance orders filed pursuant to part 655, subpart B, of this chapter;
(7) Refuse to cooperate in field checks conducted pursuant to § 653.503 of this chapter; or
(8) Repeatedly cause the initiation of the procedures for discontinuation of services pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.
(b) If an ES office or SWA has information that an employer participating in the ES may have committed fraud or misrepresentation in connection with its current or prior temporary labor certification or may not have complied with the terms of such certification, under, for example the H-2A and H-2B visa programs, SWA officials must notify the OFLC National Processing Center and the Wage and Hour Division of the alleged noncompliance as applicable under § 655.185 and 29 CFR 501.2, 501.6, 503.3, and 503.7. If the circumstances occurred within the previous 3 years, SWA officials must determine whether there is a basis under paragraph (a) of this section for which the SWA must initiate procedures for discontinuation of services.
(c) [Reserved]
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 629, Jan. 6, 2020; 89 FR 34065, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 658.502
Notification to employers of intent to discontinue services.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, where the SWA determines that there is an applicable basis for discontinuation of services under § 658.501(a)(1) through (8), the SWA must notify the employer in writing that it intends to discontinue the provision of ES services in accordance with this section and must provide the reasons for proposing discontinuation of services.
(1) Where the decision is based on § 658.501(a)(1), the SWA must specify the date the order was submitted, the job order involved, and the terms and conditions contrary to employment-related laws and the laws involved. The SWA must notify the employer in writing that all ES services will be terminated unless the employer within 20 working days:
(i) Provides adequate evidence that the terms and conditions are not contrary to employment-related laws;
(ii) Withdraws the terms and conditions and resubmits the job order in compliance with all employment-related laws; or
(iii) If the job is no longer available, makes assurances that all future job orders submitted will be in compliance with all employment-related laws.
(2) Where the decision is based on § 658.501(a)(2), the SWA must specify the date the order was submitted, the job order involved, the assurances involved, and explain how the employer refused to provide the assurances. The SWA must notify the employer that all ES services will be terminated unless the employer within 20 working days:
(i) Resubmits the order with the required assurances; or
(ii) If the job is no longer available, makes assurances that all future job orders submitted will contain all assurances required pursuant to the Agricultural Recruitment System for U.S. Workers at part 653, subpart F, of this chapter.
(3) Where the decision is based on § 658.501(a)(3), the SWA must specify the terms and conditions the employer misrepresented or the assurances with which the employer did not fully comply, and explain how the employer misrepresented the terms or conditions or failed to comply with assurances on the job order. The SWA must notify the employer that all ES services will be terminated unless the employer within 20 working days:
(i) Provides adequate evidence that terms and conditions of employment were not misrepresented;
(ii) Provides adequate evidence that there was full compliance with the assurances made on the job orders; or
(iii) Provides adequate evidence that it has resolved the misrepresentation of terms and conditions of employment or noncompliance with assurances and provides adequate assurance that specifications on future orders will accurately represent the terms and conditions of employment and that there will be full compliance with all job order assurances.
(4) Where the decision is based on § 658.501(a)(4), the SWA must provide evidence of the final determination, including debarment. For final determinations, the SWA must specify the enforcement agency's findings of facts and conclusions of law as to the employment-related law violation(s). For final debarment orders, the SWA must specify the time period for which the employer is debarred from participating in one of the Department's foreign labor certification programs. The SWA must notify the employer that all ES services will be terminated unless the employer within 20 working days:
(i) Provides adequate evidence that the enforcement agency's determination is not final because, for example, it has been stayed pending appeal, overturned, or reversed; or
(ii) Provides adequate evidence that, as applicable:
(A) The Department's debarment is no longer in effect; and
(B) The employer has completed all required actions imposed by the enforcement agency as a consequence of the violation, including payment of any fines or restitution to remediate the violation; and
(iii) Provides assurances that any policies, procedures, or conditions responsible for the violation have been corrected and the same or similar violations are not likely to occur in the future.
(5) Where the decision is based on § 658.501(a)(5), the SWA must specify which ES regulation, as defined in § 651.10, the employer has violated and must provide basic facts to explain the violation. The SWA must notify the employer that all ES services will be terminated unless the employer within 20 working days:
(i) Provides adequate evidence that the employer did not violate ES regulations; or
(ii) Provides adequate evidence that appropriate restitution has been made or remedial action taken; and
(iii) Provides assurances that any policies, procedures, or conditions responsible for the violation have been corrected and the same or similar violations are not likely to occur in the future.
(6) Where the decision is based on § 658.501(a)(6), the SWA must indicate that the employer filed the job order pursuant to part 655, subpart B, of this chapter, and specify the name of each worker the SWA referred and the employer did not accept. The SWA must notify the employer that all ES services will be terminated unless the employer within 20 working days:
(i) Provides adequate evidence that the workers were accepted; or
(ii) Provides adequate evidence that the workers were not available to accept the job; or
(iii) Provides adequate evidence that the workers were not qualified; or
(iv) Provides adequate evidence that the workers were referred after the time period described in § 655.135(d) of this chapter elapsed; or
(v) Provides adequate evidence that:
(A) After refusal, the employer accepted the qualified workers referred; or
(B) Appropriate restitution has been made or other remedial action taken; and
(vi) Provides assurances that qualified workers referred in the future will be accepted or, if the time period described in § 655.135(d) of this chapter has lapsed, provides assurances that qualified workers referred on all future criteria clearance orders will be accepted.
(7) Where the decision is based on § 658.501(a)(7), the SWA must explain how the employer did not cooperate in the field check. The SWA must notify the employer that all ES services will be terminated unless the employer within 20 working days:
(i) Provides adequate evidence that it did cooperate; or
(ii) Immediately cooperates in the conduct of field checks; and
(iii) Provides assurances that it will cooperate in future field checks.
(8) Where the decision is based on § 658.501(a)(8), the SWA must list and provide basic facts explaining the prior instances where the employer has repeatedly caused initiation of discontinuation proceedings. The SWA must notify the employer that all ES services will be terminated unless the employer within 20 working days provides adequate evidence that the SWA's initiation of discontinuation in prior proceedings was unfounded.
(b) SWA officials must discontinue services immediately in accordance with § 658.503, without providing the notice described in this section, if an employer has met any of the bases for discontinuation of services under § 658.501(a) and, in the judgment of the State Administrator, exhaustion of the administrative procedures set forth in this section would cause substantial harm to workers.
[89 FR 34066, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 658.503
Discontinuation of services.
(a) Within 20 working days of receipt of the employer's response to the SWA's notification under § 658.502(a), or at least 20 working days after the SWA's notification has been received by the employer if the SWA does not receive a response, the SWA must notify the employer in writing of its final determination. If the SWA determines that the employer did not provide a satisfactory response in accordance with § 658.502(a), the SWA's notification must specify the reasons for its determination and state that the discontinuation of services is effective 20 working days from the date of the notification. The notification must also state that the employer may request reinstatement or appeal the determination by requesting a hearing pursuant to § 658.504, and that a request for a hearing stays the discontinuation pending the outcome of the hearing. If the employer does not request a hearing, the SWA must also notify the ETA Office of Workforce Investment of any final determination to discontinue ES services within 10 working days of the date the determination becomes effective.
(b) Where the SWA discontinues services immediately under § 658.502(b), the SWA's written notification must specify the facts supporting the applicable basis for discontinuation under § 658.501(a), the reasons that exhaustion of the administrative procedures would cause substantial harm to workers, and that services are discontinued as of the date of the notification. The notification must also state that the employer may request reinstatement or appeal the determination by requesting a hearing pursuant to § 658.504, and that a request for a hearing relating to immediate discontinuation does not stay the discontinuation pending the outcome of the hearing. Within 10 working days of the date of issuance, the SWA must also notify the ETA Office of Workforce Investment of any determination to immediately discontinue ES services.
(c) If the SWA discontinues services to an employer that is subject to Federal Contractor Job Listing Requirements, the SWA must notify the ETA regional office immediately.
(d) If the SWA discontinues services to an employer based on a complaint filed pursuant to § 658.411, the SWA must notify the complainant of the employer's discontinuation of services.
(e) If the SWA discontinues services to an employer, the employer cannot participate in or receive Wagner-Peyser Act ES Services provided by the ES, including by any SWA, to employers pursuant to parts 652 and 653 of this chapter. From the date of discontinuance, the SWA that issued the determination must remove the employer's active job orders from the clearance system. No SWA may process any future job orders from the employer or provide any other services pursuant to parts 652 and 653 of this chapter to the employer unless services have been reinstated under § 658.504.
(f) SWAs must continue to provide the full range of ES and other appropriate services to workers whose employers experience discontinuation of services under this subpart.
[89 FR 34067, Apr. 29, 2024]
§ 658.504
Reinstatement of services.
(a) Where the SWA discontinues services to an employer under § 658.502(b) or § 658.503, the employer may submit a written request for reinstatement of services to the SWA or may, within 20
working days of receiving notice of the SWA's final determination, appeal the discontinuation by submitting a written request for a hearing.
(b) If the employer submits a written request for reinstatement of services to the SWA:
(1) Within 20 working days of receipt of the employer's request for reinstatement, the SWA must notify the employer of its decision to grant or deny the request. If the SWA denies the request for reinstatement, it must specify the reasons for the denial and notify the employer that it may request a hearing, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, within 20 working days.
(2) The SWA must reinstate services if:
(i) The employer provides adequate evidence that the policies, procedures, or conditions responsible for the previous discontinuation of services have been corrected and that the same or similar circumstances are not likely to occur in the future; and
(ii) The employer provides adequate evidence that it has responded to all findings of an enforcement agency, SWA, or ETA, including payment of any fines or restitution to remediate the violation, that were the basis of the discontinuation of services, if applicable.
(c) If the employer submits a timely request for a hearing:
(1) The SWA must follow the procedures set forth in § 658.417; and
(2) The SWA must reinstate services to the employer if ordered to do so by a State hearing official, Regional Administrator, or Federal Administrative Law Judge as a result of a hearing offered pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d) Within 10 working days of the date of issuance, the SWA must notify the ETA Office of Workforce Investment of any determination to reinstate ES services, or any decision on appeal upholding a SWA's determination to discontinue services.
[89 FR 34067, Apr. 29, 2024]

# Subpart G—Review and Assessment of State Workforce Agency Compliance With Employment Service Regulations
§ 658.600
Scope and purpose of subpart.
This subpart sets forth the regulations governing review and assessment of State Workforce Agency (SWA) compliance with the ES regulations at this part and parts 651, 652, 653, and 654 of this chapter. All recordkeeping and reporting requirements contained in this part and part 653 of this chapter have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980.
§ 658.601
State Workforce Agency responsibility.
(a) Each SWA must establish and maintain a self-appraisal system for ES operations to determine success in reaching goals and to correct deficiencies in performance. The self-appraisal system must include numerical (quantitative) appraisal and non-numerical (qualitative) appraisal.
(1) Numerical appraisal at the ES office level must be conducted as follows:
(i) Performance must be measured on a quarterly-basis against planned service levels as stated in the Unified or Combined State Plan (“State Plan”). The State Plan must be consistent with numerical goals contained in ES office plans.
(ii) To appraise numerical activities/indicators, actual results as shown on the Department's ETA Form 9172, or any successor report required by the Department must be compared to planned levels. Differences between achievement and plan levels must be identified.
(iii) When the numerical appraisal of required activities/indicators identifies significant differences from planned levels, additional analysis must be conducted to isolate possible contributing factors. This data analysis must include, as appropriate, comparisons to past performance, attainment of State Plan goals and consideration of pertinent non-numerical factors.
(iv) Results of ES office numerical reviews must be documented and significant deficiencies identified. A corrective action plan as described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section must be developed to address these deficiencies.
(v) The result of ES office appraisal, including corrective action plans, must be communicated in writing to the next higher level of authority for review. This review must cover adequacy of analysis, appropriateness of corrective actions, and need for higher level involvement. When this review is conducted at an area or district office, a report describing ES office performance within the area or district jurisdiction must be communicated to the SWA on a quarterly basis.
(2) Numerical appraisal at the SWA level must be conducted as follows:
(i) Performance must be measured on a quarterly basis against planned service levels as stated in the State Plan. The State Plan must be consistent with numerical goals contained in ES office plans.
(ii) To appraise these key numerical activities/indicators, actual results as shown on ETA Form 9172, or any successor report required by the Department must be compared to planned levels. Differences between achievement and plan levels must be identified.
(iii) The SWA must review statewide data and performance against planned service levels as stated in the State Plan on at least a quarterly basis to identify significant statewide deficiencies and to determine the need for additional analysis, including identification of trends, comparisons to past performance, and attainment of State Plan goals.
(iv) Results of numerical reviews must be documented and significant deficiencies identified. A corrective action plan as described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section must be developed to address these deficiencies. These plans must be submitted to the ETA Regional Office as part of the periodic performance process described at § 658.603(d)(2).
(3) Non-numerical (qualitative) appraisal of ES office activities must be conducted at least annually as follows:
(i) Each ES office must assess the quality of its services to applicants, employers, and the community and its compliance with Federal regulations.
(ii) At a minimum, non-numerical review must include an assessment of the following factors:
(A) Appropriateness of services provided to participants and employers;
(B) Timely delivery of services to participants and employers;
(C) Staff responsiveness to individual participants and employer needs;
(D) Thoroughness and accuracy of documents prepared in the course of service delivery; and
(E) Effectiveness of ES interface with external organizations, such as other ETA-funded programs, community groups, etc.
(iii) Non-numerical review methods must include:
(A) Observation of processes;
(B) Review of documents used in service provisions; and
(C) Solicitation of input from applicants, employers, and the community.
(iv) The result of non-numerical reviews must be documented and deficiencies identified. A corrective action plan addressing these deficiencies as described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section must be developed.
(v) The result of ES office non-numerical appraisal, including corrective actions, must be communicated in writing to the next higher level of authority for review. This review must cover thoroughness and adequacy of ES office appraisal, appropriateness of corrective actions, and need for higher level involvement. When this review is conducted at an area or district level, a report summarizing local ES office performance within that jurisdiction must be communicated to the SWA on an annual basis.
(4) As part of its oversight responsibilities, the SWA must conduct onsite reviews in those ES offices which show continuing internal problems or deficiencies in performance as indicated by such sources as data analysis, non-numerical appraisal, or other sources of information.
(5) Non-numerical (qualitative) review of SWA ES activities must be conducted as follows:
(i) SWA operations must be assessed annually to determine compliance with Federal regulations.
(ii) Results of non-numerical reviews must be documented and deficiencies identified. A corrective action plan addressing these deficiencies must be developed.
(6) Corrective action plans developed to address deficiencies uncovered at any administrative level within the State as a result of the self-appraisal process must include:
(i) Specific descriptions of the type of action to be taken, the time frame involved, and the assignment of responsibility.
(ii) Provision for the delivery of technical assistance as needed.
(iii) A plan to conduct follow-up on a timely basis to determine if action taken to correct the deficiencies has been effective.
(7)(i) The provisions of the ES regulations which require numerical and non-numerical assessment of service to special applicant groups (
e.g.
, services to veterans at 20 CFR part 1001—Services for Veterans and services to MSFWs at this part and part 653 of this chapter), are supplementary to the provisions of this section.
(ii) Each State Administrator and ES office manager must ensure their staff know and carry out ES regulations, including regulations on performance standards and program emphases, and any corrective action plans imposed by the SWA or by the Department.
(iii) Each State Administrator must ensure the SWA complies with its approved State Plan.
(iv) Each State Administrator must ensure to the maximum extent feasible the accuracy of data entered by the SWA into Department-required management information systems. Each SWA must establish and maintain a data validation system pursuant to Department instructions. The system must review every local ES office at least once every 4 years. The system must include the validation of time distribution reports and the review of data gathering procedures.
(b) [Reserved]
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 629, Jan. 6, 2020]
§ 658.602
Employment and Training Administration National Office responsibility.
The ETA National Office must:
(a) Monitor ETA Regional Offices' operations under ES regulations;
(b) From time to time, conduct such special reviews and audits as necessary to monitor ETA regional office and SWA compliance with ES regulations;
(c) Offer technical assistance to the ETA regional offices and SWAs in carrying out ES regulations and programs;
(d) Have report validation surveys conducted in support of resource allocations; and
(e) Develop tools and techniques for reviewing and assessing SWA performance and compliance with ES regulations.
(f) ETA must appoint a National Monitor Advocate (NMA), who must devote full time to the duties set forth in this subpart. The NMA must:
(1) Review the effective functioning of the Regional Monitor Advocates (RMAs) and SMAs;
(2) Review the performance of SWAs in providing the full range of ES services to MSFWs;
(3) Take steps to resolve or refer ES-related problems of MSFWs which come to their attention;
(4) Take steps to refer non-ES-related problems of MSFWs which come to their attention;
(5) Recommend to the Administrator changes in policy toward MSFWs; and
(6) Serve as an advocate to improve services for MSFWs within the ES system. The NMA must be a member of the National Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Staff Level Working Committee and other Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and Wage and Hour Division (WHD) task forces, and other committees as appropriate.
(g) The NMA must be appointed by the Office of Workforce Investment Administrator (Administrator) after informing farmworker organizations and other organizations with expertise concerning MSFWs of the opening and encouraging them to refer qualified applicants to apply through the Federal
merit system. Among qualified candidates, determined through merit systems procedures, individuals must be sought who meet the criteria used in the selection of the SMAs, as provided in SWA self-monitoring requirements at § 653.108(a) of this chapter.
(h) The NMA must be assigned staff necessary to fulfill effectively all the responsibilities set forth in this subpart.
(i) The NMA must submit the Annual Report to the OWI Administrator, the ETA Assistant Secretary, and the National Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee covering the matters set forth in this subpart.
(j) The NMA must monitor and assess SWA compliance with ES regulations affecting MSFWs on a continuing basis. Their assessment must consider:
(1) Information from RMAs and SMAs;
(2) Program performance data, including the service indicators;
(3) Periodic reports from regional offices;
(4) All Federal on-site reviews;
(5) Selected State on-site reviews;
(6) Other relevant reports prepared by the ES;
(7) Information received from farmworker organizations and employers; and
(8) Their personal observations from visits to SWAs, ES offices, agricultural work sites, and migrant camps. In the Annual Report, the NMA must include both a quantitative and qualitative analysis of their findings and the implementation of their recommendations by State and Federal officials, and must address the information obtained from all of the foregoing sources.
(k) The NMA must review the activities of the State/Federal monitoring system as it applies to services to MSFWs and the Complaint System including the effectiveness of the regional monitoring function in each region and must recommend any appropriate changes in the operation of the system. The NMA's findings and recommendations must be fully set forth in the Annual Report.
(l) If the NMA finds the effectiveness of any RMA has been substantially impeded by the Regional Administrator or other regional office official, they must, if unable to resolve such problems informally, report and recommend appropriate actions directly to the OWI Administrator. If the NMA receives information that the effectiveness of any SMA has been substantially impeded by the State Administrator, a State or Federal ES official, or other ES staff, they must, in the absence of a satisfactory informal resolution at the regional level, report and recommend appropriate actions directly to the OWI Administrator.
(m) The NMA must be informed of all proposed changes in policy and practice within the ES, including ES regulations, which may affect the delivery of services to MSFWs. The NMA must advise the OWI Administrator concerning all such proposed changes which may adversely affect MSFWs. The NMA must propose directly to the OWI Administrator changes in ES policy and administration which may substantially improve the delivery of services to MSFWs. They also must recommend changes in the funding of SWAs and/or adjustment or reallocation of the discretionary portions of funding formulae.
(n) The NMA must participate in the review and assessment activities required in this section and §§ 658.700 through 658.711. As part of such participation, the NMA, or if they are unable to participate, an RMA must accompany the National Office review team on National Office on-site reviews. The NMA must engage in the following activities during each State on-site review:
(1) They must accompany selected outreach staff on their field visits.
(2) They must participate in field check(s) of migrant camps or work site(s) where MSFWs have been placed on inter or intrastate clearance orders.
(3) They must contact local WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program grantees or other farmworker organizations as part of the on-site review and discuss with representatives of these organizations current trends and any other pertinent information concerning MSFWs.
(4) They must meet with the SMA and discuss the full range of the ES
services to MSFWs, including monitoring and the Complaint System.
(o) In addition to the duties specified in paragraph (f) of this section, the NMA each year during the harvest season must visit the four States with the highest level of MSFW activity during the prior fiscal year, if they are not scheduled for a National Office on-site review during the current fiscal year, and must:
(1) Meet with the SMA and other ES staff to discuss MSFW service delivery; and
(2) Contact representatives of MSFW organizations and interested employer organizations to obtain information concerning ES delivery and coordination with other agencies.
(p) The NMA must perform duties specified in §§ 658.700 through 765.711. As part of this function, they must monitor the performance of regional offices in imposing corrective action. The NMA must report any deficiencies in performance to the Administrator.
(q) The NMA must establish routine and regular contacts with WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program grantees, other farmworker organizations and agricultural employers and/or employer organizations. The NMA must attend conferences or meetings of these groups wherever possible and must report to the Administrator and the National Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee on these contacts when appropriate. The NMA must include in the Annual Report recommendations about how the Department might better coordinate ES and WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program services as they pertain to MSFWs.
(r) In the event that any SMA or RMA, enforcement agency, or MSFW group refers a matter to the NMA which requires emergency action, the NMA must assist them in obtaining action by appropriate agencies and staff, inform the originating party of the action taken, and, upon request, provide written confirmation.
(s) Through all the mechanisms provided in this subpart, the NMA must aggressively seek to ascertain and remedy, if possible, systemic deficiencies in the provisions of ES services and protections afforded by these regulations to MSFWs. The NMA must:
(1) Use the regular reports on complaints submitted by SWAs and ETA regional offices to assess the adequacy of these systems and to determine the existence of systemic deficiencies.
(2) Provide technical assistance to ETA regional office and ES staff for administering the Complaint System, and any other ES services as appropriate.
(3) Recommend to the Regional Administrator specific instructions for action by regional office staff to correct any ES-related systemic deficiencies. Prior to any ETA review of regional office operations concerning ES services to MSFWs, the NMA must provide to the Regional Administrator a brief summary of ES-related services to MSFWs in that region and their recommendations for incorporation in the regional review materials as the Regional Administrator and ETA reviewing organization deem appropriate.
(4) Recommend to the National Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee specific instructions for action by WHD and OSHA regional office staff to correct any non-ES-related systemic deficiencies of which he/she is aware.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 629, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82733, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.603
Employment and Training Administration regional office responsibility.
(a) The Regional Administrator must have responsibility for the regular review and assessment of SWA performance and compliance with ES regulations.
(b) The Regional Administrator must participate with the National Office staff in reviewing and approving the State Plan for the SWAs within the region. In reviewing the State Plans the Regional Administrator and appropriate National Office staff must consider relevant factors including the following:
(1) State Workforce Agency compliance with ES regulations;
(2) State Workforce Agency performance against the goals and objectives established in the previous State Plan;
(3) The effect which economic conditions and other external factors considered by the ETA in the resource allocation process may have had or are expected to have on the SWA's performance;
(4) SWA adherence to national program emphasis; and
(5) The adequacy and appropriateness of the State Plan for carrying out ES programs.
(c) The Regional Administrator must assess the overall performance of SWAs on an ongoing basis through desk reviews and the use of required reporting systems and other available information.
(d) As appropriate, Regional Administrators must conduct or have conducted:
(1) Comprehensive on-site reviews of SWAs and their offices to review SWA organization, management, and program operations;
(2) Periodic performance reviews of SWA operation of ES programs to measure actual performance against the State Plan, past performance, the performance of other SWAs, etc.;
(3) Audits of SWA programs to review their program activity and to assess whether the expenditure of grant funds has been in accordance with the approved budget. Regional Administrators also may conduct audits through other agencies or organizations or may require the SWA to have audits conducted;
(4) Validations of data entered into management information systems to assess:
(i) The accuracy of data entered by the SWAs into the management information system;
(ii) Whether the SWAs' data validating and reviewing procedures conform to Department instructions; and
(iii) Whether SWAs have implemented any corrective action plans required by the Department to remedy deficiencies in their validation programs;
(5) Technical assistance programs to assist SWAs in carrying out ES regulations and programs;
(6) Reviews to assess whether the SWA has complied with corrective action plans imposed by the Department or by the SWA itself; and
(7) Unannounced field checks of a sample of agricultural work sites to which ES placements have been made through the clearance system to determine and document whether wages, hours, and working and housing conditions are as specified on the clearance order. If regional office staff find reason to believe that conditions vary from clearance order specifications, findings must be documented on the Complaint/Apparent Violation Referral Form and provided to the State Workforce Agency to be processed as an apparent violation under § 658.419.
(e) The Regional Administrator must provide technical assistance to SWAs to assist them in carrying out ES regulations and programs.
(f) The Regional Administrator must appoint a RMA who must carry out the duties set forth in this subpart. The RMA must:
(1) Review the effective functioning of the SMAs in their region;
(2) Review the performance of SWAs in providing the full range of ES services to MSFWs;
(3) Take steps to resolve ES-related problems of MSFWs which come to their attention;
(4) Recommend to the Regional Administrator changes in policy towards MSFWs;
(5) Review the operation of the Complaint System; and
(6) Serve as an advocate to improve service for MSFWs within the ES. The RMA must be a member of the Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee.
(g) The RMA must be appointed by the Regional Administrator after informing farmworker organizations and other organizations in the region with expertise concerning MSFWs of the opening and encouraging them to refer qualified applicants to apply through the Federal merit system. The RMA must have direct personal access to the Regional Administrator wherever they find it necessary. Among qualified candidates, individuals must be sought who meet the criteria used in the selection of the SMAs, as provided in § 653.108(b) of this chapter.
(h) The Regional Administrator must ensure that staff necessary to fulfill effectively all the regional office responsibilities set forth in this section are assigned.
(i) The RMA must participate in training sessions including those offered by the National Office and those necessary to maintain competency and enhance their understanding of issues farmworkers face (including trainings offered by OSHA, WHD, EEOC, CRC, and other organizations offering farmworker-related information).
(j) At the regional level, the RMA must have primary responsibility for:
(1) Monitoring the effectiveness of the Complaint System set forth at subpart E of this part;
(2) Apprising appropriate State and ETA officials of deficiencies in the Complaint System; and
(3) Providing technical assistance to SMAs in the region.
(k) At the ETA regional level, the RMA must have primary responsibility for ensuring SWA compliance with ES regulations as it pertains to services to MSFWs is monitored by the regional office. They must independently assess on a continuing basis the provision of ES services to MSFWs, seeking out and using:
(1) Information from SMAs, including all reports and other documents;
(2) Program performance data;
(3) The periodic and other required reports from SWAs;
(4) Federal on-site reviews;
(5) Other reports prepared by the National Office;
(6) Information received from farmworker organizations and employers; and
(7) Any other pertinent information which comes to their attention from any possible source.
(8) In addition, the RMA must consider their personal observations from visits to ES offices, agricultural work sites, and migrant camps.
(l) The RMA must assist the Regional Administrator and other line officials in applying appropriate corrective and remedial actions to State agencies.
(m) The Regional Administrator's quarterly report to the National Office must include the RMA's summary of their independent assessment as required in paragraph (f)(5) of this section. The fourth quarter summary must include an Annual Summary from the region. The summary also must include both a quantitative and a qualitative analysis of their reviews and must address all the matters with respect to which they have responsibilities under these regulations.
(n) The RMA must review the activities and performance of the SMAs and the State monitoring system in the region, and must recommend any appropriate changes in the operation of the system to the Regional Administrator. The RMA's review must include a determination whether the SMA:
(1) Does not have adequate access to information;
(2) Is being impeded in fulfilling their duties; or
(3) Is making recommendations that are being consistently ignored by SWA officials. If the RMA believes that the effectiveness of any SMA has been substantially impeded by the State Administrator, other State agency officials, any Federal officials, or other ES staff, the RMA must report and recommend appropriate actions to the Regional Administrator. Copies of the recommendations must be provided to the NMA electronically or in hard copy.
(o)(1) The RMA must be informed of all proposed changes in policy and practice within the ES, including ES regulations, which may affect the delivery of services to MSFWs. They must advise the Regional Administrator on all such proposed changes which, in their opinion, may adversely affect MSFWs or which may substantially improve the delivery of services to MSFWs.
(2) The RMA also may recommend changes in ES policy or regulations, as well as changes in the funding of State Workforce Agencies and/or adjustments of reallocation of the discretionary portions of funding formulae as they pertain to MSFWs.
(p) The RMA must participate in the review and assessment activities required in this section and §§ 658.700 through 658.711. The RMA, an assistant, or another RMA must participate in National Office and regional office on-site statewide reviews of ES services to
MSFWs in States in the region. The RMA must engage in the following activities in the course of participating in an on-site SWA review:
(1) Accompany selected outreach staff on their field visits;
(2) Participate in a field check of migrant camps or work sites where MSFWs have been placed on intrastate or interstate clearance orders;
(3) Contact local WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program grantees or other farmworker organizations as part of the on-site review, and must discuss with representatives of these organizations perceived trends, and/or other relevant information concerning MSFWs in the area; and
(4) Meet with the SMA and discuss the full range of the ES services to MSFWs, including monitoring and the Complaint System.
(q) During the calendar quarter preceding the time of peak MSFW activity in each State, the RMA must meet with the SMA and must review in detail the State Workforce Agency's capability for providing the full range of services to MSFWs as required by ES regulations, during the upcoming harvest season. The RMA must offer technical assistance and recommend to the SWA and/or the Regional Administrator any changes in State policy or practice that the RMA finds necessary.
(r) As appropriate, each year during the peak harvest season, the RMA must visit each State in the region not scheduled for an onsite review during that fiscal year and must:
(1) Meet with the SMA and other ES staff to discuss MSFW service delivery; and
(2) Contact representatives of MSFW organizations to obtain information concerning ES delivery and coordination with other agencies and interested employer organizations.
(s) The RMA must initiate and maintain regular and personal contacts, including informal contacts in addition to those specifically required by these regulations, with SMAs in the region. In addition, the RMA must have personal and regular contact with the NMA. The RMA also must establish routine and regular contacts with WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program grantees, other farmworker organizations and agricultural employers and/or employer organizations in the RMA's region. The RMA must attend conferences or meetings of these groups wherever possible and must report to the Regional Administrator and the Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee on these contacts when appropriate. The RMA also must make recommendations as to how the Department might better coordinate ES and WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program services to MSFWs.
(t) The RMA must attend MSFW-related public meeting(s) conducted in the region, as appropriate. Following such meetings or hearings, the RMA must take such steps or make such recommendations to the Regional Administrator, as the RMA deems necessary to remedy problem(s) or condition(s) identified or described therein.
(u) The RMA must attempt to achieve regional solutions to any problems, deficiencies, or improper practices concerning services to MSFWs which are regional in scope. Further, the RMA must recommend policies, offer technical assistance, or take any other necessary steps as they deem desirable or appropriate on a regional, rather than State-by-State, basis to promote region-wide improvement in the delivery of ES services to MSFWs. The RMA must facilitate region-wide coordination and communication regarding provision of ES services to MSFWs among SMAs, State Administrators, and Federal ETA officials to the greatest extent possible. In the event that any SWA or other RMA, enforcement agency, or MSFW group refers a matter to the RMA which requires emergency action, the RMA must assist them in obtaining action by appropriate agencies and staff, inform the originating party of the action taken, and, upon request, provide written confirmation.
(v) The RMA must initiate and maintain such contacts as they deem necessary with RMAs in other regions to seek to resolve problems concerning MSFWs who work, live, or travel through the region. The RMA must recommend to the Regional Administrator and/or the National Office inter-regional cooperation on any particular
matter, problem, or policy with respect to which inter-regional action is desirable.
(w) The RMA must establish regular contacts with the regional agricultural coordinators from WHD and OSHA and any other regional staff from other Federal enforcement agencies and must establish contacts with the staff of other Department agencies represented on the Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee and to the extent necessary, on other pertinent task forces or committees.
(x) The RMA must participate in the regional reviews of the State Plans, and must comment to the Regional Administrator as to the SWA compliance with the ES regulations as they pertain to services to MSFWs, including the staffing of ES offices.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 630, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82734, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.604
Assessment and evaluation of program performance data.
(a) State Workforce Agencies must compile program performance data required by the Department, including statistical information on program operations.
(b) The Department must use the program performance data in assessing and evaluating whether each SWA has complied with ES regulations and its State Plan.
(c) In assessing and evaluating program performance data, the Department must act in accordance with the following general principles:
(1) The fact that the program performance data from a SWA, whether overall or relative to a particular program activity, indicate poor program performance does not by itself constitute a violation of ES regulations or of the State Workforce Agency's responsibilities under its State Plan;
(2) Program performance data, however, may so strongly indicate that a SWA's performance is so poor that the data may raise a presumption (
prima facie
case) that a SWA is violating ES regulations or the State Plan. A SWA's failure to meet the operational objectives set forth in the State Plan raises a presumption that the agency is violating ES regulations and/or obligations under its State Plan. In such cases, the Department must afford the SWA an opportunity to rebut the presumption of a violation pursuant to the procedures at subpart H of this part.
(3) The Department must take into account that certain program performance data may measure items over which SWAs have direct or substantial control while other data may measure items over which the SWA has indirect or minimal control.
(i) Generally, for example, a SWA has direct and substantial control over the delivery of ES services such as referrals to jobs, job development contacts, counseling, referrals to career and supportive services, and the conduct of field checks.
(ii) State Workforce Agencies, however, have only indirect control over the outcome of services. For example, SWAs cannot guarantee that an employer will hire a referred applicant, nor can they guarantee that the terms and conditions of employment will be as stated on a job order.
(iii) Outside forces, such as a sudden heavy increase in unemployment rates, a strike by SWA employees, or a severe drought or flood, may skew the results measured by program performance data.
(4) The Department must consider a SWA's failure to keep accurate and complete program performance data required by ES regulations as a violation of the ES regulations.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82736, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.605
Communication of findings to State agencies.
(a) The Regional Administrator must inform SWAs in writing of the results of review and assessment activities and, as appropriate, must discuss with the State Administrator the impact or action required by the Department as a result of review and assessment activities.
(b) The ETA National Office must transmit the results of any review and assessment activities it conducted to the Regional Administrator who must send the information to the SWA.
(c) Whenever the review and assessment indicates a SWA violation of ES regulations or its State Plan, the Regional Administrator must follow the
procedures set forth at subpart H of this part.
(d) Regional Administrators must follow-up any corrective action plan imposed on a SWA under subpart H of this part by further review and assessment of the State Workforce Agency pursuant to this subpart.

# Subpart H—Federal Application of Remedial Action to State Workforce Agencies
§ 658.700
Scope and purpose of subpart.
This subpart sets forth the procedures which the Department must follow upon either discovering independently or receiving from other(s) information indicating that SWAs may not be adhering to ES regulations.
§ 658.701
Statements of policy.
(a) It is the policy of the Department to take all necessary action, including the imposition of the full range of sanctions set forth in this subpart, to ensure State Workforce Agencies comply with all requirements established by ES regulations.
(b) It is the policy of the Department to initiate decertification procedures against SWAs in instances of serious or continual violations of ES regulations if less stringent remedial actions taken in accordance with this subpart fail to resolve noncompliance.
(c) It is the policy of the Department to act on information concerning alleged violations by SWAs of the ES regulations received from any person or organization.
§ 658.702
Initial action by the Regional Administrator.
(a) The ETA Regional Administrator is responsible for ensuring that all SWAs in their region are in compliance with ES regulations.
(b) Wherever a Regional Administrator discovers or is apprised of possible SWA violations of ES regulations by the review and assessment activities under subpart G of this part, or through required reports or written complaints from individuals, organizations, or employers which are elevated to the Department after the exhaustion of SWA administrative remedies, the Regional Administrator must conduct an investigation. Within 10 business days after receipt of the report or other information, the Regional Administrator must make a determination whether there is probable cause to believe that a SWA has violated ES regulations.
(c) The Regional Administrator must accept complaints regarding possible SWA violations of ES regulations from employee organizations, employers or other groups, without exhaustion of the complaint process described at subpart E of this part, if the Regional Administrator determines that the nature and scope of the complaint are such that the time required to exhaust the administrative procedures at the State level would adversely affect a significant number of applicants. In such cases, the Regional Administrator must investigate the matter within 10 business days, may provide the SWA 10 business days for comment, and must make a determination within an additional 10 business days whether there is probable cause to believe that the SWA has violated ES regulations.
(d) If the Regional Administrator determines that there is no probable cause to believe that a SWA has violated ES regulations, they must retain all reports and supporting information in Department files. In all cases where the Regional Administrator has insufficient information to make a probable cause determination, they must so notify the Administrator in writing and the time for the investigation must be extended 20 additional business days.
(e) If the Regional Administrator determines there is probable cause to believe a SWA has violated ES regulations, they must issue a Notice of Initial Findings of Non-compliance by registered mail (or other legally viable means) to the offending SWA. The notice will specify the nature of the violation, cite the regulations involved, and indicate corrective action which may be imposed in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section. If the non-compliance involves services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, a copy of said notice must be sent to the NMA.
(f)(1) The SWA may have 20 business days to comment on the findings, or up
to 20 additional days, if the Regional Administrator determines a longer period is appropriate. The SWA's comments must include agreement or disagreement with the findings and suggested corrective actions, where appropriate.
(2) After the period elapses, the Regional Administrator must prepare within 20 business days, written final findings which specify whether the SWA has violated ES regulations. If in the final findings the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has not violated ES regulations, the Regional Administrator must notify the State Administrator of this finding and retain supporting documents in their files. If the final finding involves services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, the Regional Administrator also must notify the RMA and the NMA. If the Regional Administrator determines a SWA has violated ES regulations, the Regional Administrator must prepare a Final Notice of Noncompliance which must specify the violation(s) and cite the regulations involved. The Final Notice of Noncompliance must be sent to the SWA by registered mail or other legally viable means. If the noncompliance involves services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, a copy of the Final Notice must be sent to the RMA and the NMA.
(g) If the violation involves the misspending of grant funds, the Regional Administrator may order in the Final Notice of Noncompliance a disallowance of the expenditure and may either demand repayment or withhold future funds in the amount in question. If the Regional Administrator disallows costs, the Regional Administrator must give the reasons for the disallowance, inform the SWA that the disallowance is effective immediately and that no more funds may be spent in the disallowed manner, and offer the SWA the opportunity to request a hearing pursuant to § 658.707. The offer, or the acceptance of an offer of a hearing, however, does not stay the effectiveness of the disallowance. The Regional Administrator must keep complete records of the disallowance.
(h) If the violation does not involve misspending of grant funds or the Regional Administrator determines that the circumstances warrant other action:
(1) The Final Notice of Noncompliance must direct the SWA to implement a specific corrective action plan to correct all violations. If the SWA's comment demonstrates with supporting evidence (except where inappropriate) that all violations have already been corrected, the Regional Administrator need not impose a corrective action plan and instead may cite the violation(s) and accept the SWA's resolution, subject to follow-up review, if necessary. If the Regional Administrator determines that the violation(s) cited had been found previously and that the corrective action(s) taken had not corrected the violation(s) contrary to the findings of previous follow-up reviews, the Regional Administrator must apply remedial actions to the SWA pursuant to § 658.704.
(2) The Final Notice of Noncompliance must specify the time by which each corrective action must be taken. This period may not exceed 40 business days unless the Regional Administrator determines that exceptional circumstances necessitate corrective actions requiring a longer time period. In such cases, and if the violations involve services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, the Regional Administrator must notify the Administrator in writing of the exceptional circumstances which necessitate more time, and must specify the additional time period. The specified time must commence with the date of signature on the registered mail receipt.
(3) When the time provided for in paragraph (h)(2) of this section elapses, Department staff must review the SWA's efforts as documented by the SWA to determine if the corrective action(s) has been taken and if the SWA has achieved compliance with ES regulations. If necessary, Department staff must conduct a follow-up visit as part of this review.
(4) If, as a result of this review, the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has corrected the violation(s), the Regional Administrator must record the basis for this determination, notify the SWA, send a copy to the Administrator, and retain a copy in Department files.
(5) If, as a result of this review, the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has taken corrective action but is unable to determine if the violation has been corrected due to seasonality or other factors, the Regional Administrator must notify in writing the SWA and the Administrator of their findings. The Regional Administrator must conduct further follow-up at an appropriate time to make a final determination if the violation has been corrected. If the Regional Administrator's follow-up reveals that violations have not been corrected, the Regional Administrator must apply remedial actions to the SWA pursuant to § 658.704.
(6) If, as a result of the review the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has not corrected the violations and has not made good faith efforts and adequate progress toward the correction of the violations, the Regional Administrator must apply remedial actions to the SWA pursuant to § 658.704.
(7) If, as a result of the review, the Regional Administrator determines the SWA has made good faith efforts and adequate progress toward the correction of the violation and it appears the violation will be fully corrected within a reasonable amount of time, the SWA must be advised by registered mail or other legally viable means (with a copy sent to the Administrator) of this conclusion, of remaining differences, of further needed corrective action, and that all deficiencies must be corrected within a specified time period. This period may not exceed 40 business days unless the Regional Administrator determines exceptional circumstances necessitate corrective action requiring more time. In such cases, the Regional Administrator must notify the Administrator in writing of the exceptional circumstances which necessitate more time, and must specify that time period. The specified time commences with the date of signature on the registered mail receipt.
(8)(i) If the SWA has been given additional time pursuant to paragraph (h)(7) of this section, Department staff must review the SWA's efforts as documented by the SWA at the end of the time period. If necessary, the Department must conduct a follow-up visit as part of this review.
(ii) If the SWA has corrected the violation(s), the Regional Administrator must document that finding, notify in writing the SWA and the Administrator, and retain supporting documents in Department files. If the SWA has not corrected the violation(s), the Regional Administrator must apply remedial actions pursuant to § 658.704.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82736, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.703
Emergency corrective action.
In critical situations as determined by the Regional Administrator, where it is necessary to protect the integrity of the funds, or ensure the proper operation of the program, the Regional Administrator may impose immediate corrective action. Where immediate corrective action is imposed, the Regional Administrator must notify the SWA of the reason for imposing the emergency corrective action prior to providing the SWA an opportunity to comment.
§ 658.704
Remedial actions.
(a) If a SWA fails to correct violations as determined pursuant to § 658.702, the Regional Administrator must apply one or more of the following remedial actions to the SWA:
(1) Imposition of special reporting requirements for a specified time;
(2) Restrictions of obligational authority within one or more expense classifications;
(3) Implementation of specific operating systems or procedures for a specified time;
(4) Requirement of special training for ES staff;
(5) With the approval of the Assistant Secretary and after affording the State Administrator the opportunity to request a conference with the Assistant Secretary, the elevation of specific decision-making functions from the State Administrator to the Regional Administrator;
(6) With the approval of the Assistant Secretary and after affording the State Administrator the opportunity to request a conference with the Assistant Secretary, the imposition of Federal staff in key SWA positions;
(7) With the approval of the Assistant Secretary and after affording the State
Administrator the opportunity to request a conference with the Assistant Secretary, funding of the SWA on a short-term basis or partial withholding of funds for a specific function or for a specific geographical area;
(8) Holding of public hearings in the State on the SWA's deficiencies;
(9) Disallowance of funds pursuant to § 658.702(g); or
(10) If the matter involves a serious or continual violation, the initiation of decertification procedures against the State Workforce Agency, as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) The Regional Administrator must send, by registered mail, a Notice of Remedial Action to the SWA. The Notice of Remedial Action must set forth the reasons for the remedial action. When such a notice is the result of violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs (§§ 653.100
through 653.113
of this chapter) or the Complaint System (§§ 658.400 through 658.426), a copy of said notice must be sent to the Administrator, who must publish the notice promptly in the
Federal Register
.
(c) If the remedial action is other than decertification, the notice must state the remedial action must take effect immediately. The notice also must state the SWA may request a hearing pursuant to § 658.707 by filing a request in writing with the Regional Administrator pursuant to § 658.707 within 20 business days of the SWA's receipt of the notice. The offer of hearing, or the acceptance thereof, however, does not stay or otherwise delay the implementation of remedial action.
(d) Within 60 business days after the initial application of remedial action, the Regional Administrator must conduct a review of the SWA's compliance with ES regulations unless the Regional Administrator determines more time is necessary. In such cases, the Regional Administrator must notify the Administrator in writing of the circumstances which necessitate more time, and specify that time period. If necessary, Department staff must conduct a follow-up visit as part of this review. If the SWA is in compliance with the ES regulations, the Regional Administrator must fully document these facts and must terminate the remedial actions. The Regional Administrator must notify the SWA of their findings. When the case involves violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, a copy of said notice must be sent to the Administrator, who must promptly publish the notice in the
Federal Register.
The Regional Administrator must conduct, within a reasonable time after terminating the remedial actions, a review of the SWA's compliance to determine whether any remedial actions must be reapplied.
(e) If, upon conducting the on-site review referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, the Regional Administrator finds the SWA remains in noncompliance, the Regional Administrator must continue the remedial action and/or impose different additional remedial actions. The Regional Administrator must fully document all such decisions and, when the case involves violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, must send copies to the Administrator, who must promptly publish the notice in the
Federal Register
.
(f)(1) If the SWA has not brought itself into compliance with ES regulations within 120 business days of the initial application of remedial action, the Regional Administrator must initiate decertification unless the Regional Administrator determines the circumstances necessitate continuing remedial action for more time. In such cases, the Regional Administrator must notify the Administrator in writing of the circumstances which necessitate the extended time, and specify the time period.
(2) The Regional Administrator must notify the SWA by registered mail or by other legally viable means of the decertification proceedings, and must state the reasons therefor. Whenever such a notice is sent to a SWA, the Regional Administrator must prepare five copies (hard copies or electronic copies) containing, in chronological order, all the documents pertinent to the case along with a request for decertification stating the grounds therefor. One copy must be retained. Two must be sent to the ETA National Office, one must be
sent to the Solicitor of Labor, Attention: Associate Solicitor for Employment and Training, and, if the case involves violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, copies must be sent to the RMA and the NMA.All copies also must be sent electronically to each respective party. The notice sent by the Regional Administrator must be published promptly in the
Federal Register
.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 630, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82736, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.705
Decision to decertify.
(a) Within 30 business days of receiving a request for decertification, the ETA Assistant Secretary must review the case and must decide whether to proceed with decertification.
(b) The Assistant Secretary must grant the request for decertification unless they make a finding that:
(1) The violations of ES regulations are neither serious nor continual;
(2) The SWA is in compliance; or
(3) The Assistant Secretary has reason to believe the SWA will achieve compliance within 80 business days unless exceptional circumstances necessitate more time, pursuant to the remedial action already applied or to be applied. (In the event the Assistant Secretary does not have sufficient information to act upon the request, they may postpone the determination for up to an additional 20 business days to obtain any available additional information.) In making a determination whether violations are “serious” or “continual,” as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Assistant Secretary must consider:
(i) Statewide or multiple deficiencies as shown by performance data and/or on-site reviews;
(ii) Recurrent violations, even if they do not persist over consecutive reporting periods, and
(iii) The good faith efforts of the State to achieve full compliance with ES regulations as shown by the record.
(c) If the Assistant Secretary denies a request for decertification, they must write a complete report documenting their findings and, if appropriate, instructing an alternate remedial action or actions be applied. Electronic copies of the report must be sent to the Regional Administrator. Notice of the Assistant Secretary's decision must be published promptly in the
Federal Register
and the report of the Assistant Secretary must be made available for public inspection and copying.
(d) If the Assistant Secretary decides decertification is appropriate, they must submit the case to the Secretary providing written explanation for their recommendation of decertification.
(e) Within 30 business days after receiving the Assistant Secretary's report, the Secretary must determine whether to decertify the SWA. The Secretary must grant the request for decertification unless they make one of the three findings set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. If the Secretary decides not to decertify, they must then instruct that remedial action be continued or that alternate actions be applied. The Secretary must write a report explaining their reasons for not decertifying the SWA and copies (hard copy and electronic) will be sent to the SWA. Notice of the Secretary's decision must be published promptly in the
Federal Register,
and the report of the Secretary must be made available for public inspection and copy.
(f) Where either the Assistant Secretary or the Secretary denies a request for decertification and orders further remedial action, the Regional Administrator must continue to monitor the SWA's compliance. If the SWA achieves compliance within the time established pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Regional Administrator must terminate the remedial actions. If the SWA fails to achieve full compliance within that time period after the Secretary's decision not to decertify, the Regional Administrator must submit a report of their findings to the Assistant Secretary who must reconsider the request for decertification pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82736, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.706
Notice of decertification.
If the Secretary decides to decertify a SWA, they must send a Notice of Decertification to the SWA stating the
reasons for this action and providing a 10-business-day period during which the SWA may request an administrative hearing in writing to the Secretary. The document must be published promptly in the
Federal Register
.
[88 FR 82737, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.707
Requests for hearings.
(a) Any SWA which received a Notice of Decertification under § 658.706 or a notice of disallowance under § 658.702(g) may request a hearing on the issue by filing a written request for hearing with the Secretary within 10 business days of receipt of the notice. Additionally, any SWA that has received a Notice of Remedial Action under § 658.704(c) may request a hearing by filing a written request with the Regional Administrator within 20 business days of the SWA's receipt of the notice. This request must state the reasons the SWA believes the basis of the decision to be wrong, and it must be signed by the State Administrator (electronic signatures may be accepted).
(b) When the Secretary or Regional Administrator receives a request for a hearing from a SWA, they must send copies of a file containing all materials and correspondence relevant to the case to the Assistant Secretary, the Regional Administrator, the Solicitor of Labor, and the Department of Labor Chief Administrative Law Judge. When the case involves violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, a copy must be sent to the NMA.
(c) The Secretary must publish notice of hearing in the
Federal Register.
This notice must invite all interested parties to attend and to present evidence at the hearing. All interested parties who make written request to participate must thereafter receive copies (hard copy and/or electronic) of all documents filed in said proceedings.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 82737, Nov. 24, 2023]
§ 658.708
Hearings.
(a) Upon receipt of a hearing file by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, the case must be docketed and notice sent by electronic mail, other means of electronic service, or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Solicitor of Labor, Attention: Associate Solicitor for Employment and Training, the Administrator, the Regional Administrator and the State Administrator. The notice must set a time, place, and date for a hearing on the matter and must advise the parties that:
(1) They may be represented at the hearing;
(2) They may present oral and documentary evidence at the hearing;
(3) They may cross-examine opposing witnesses at the hearing; and
(4) They may request rescheduling of the hearing if the time, place, or date set are inconvenient.
(b) The Solicitor of Labor or the Solicitor's designee will represent the Department at the hearing.
§ 658.709
Conduct of hearings.
(a) Proceedings under this section are governed by secs. 5 through 8 of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553
et seq.
and the rules of practice and procedure at subpart A of 29 CFR part 18, except as otherwise specified in this section.
(b) Technical rules of evidence do not apply, but rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to test by cross-examination, must be applied if necessary by the ALJ conducting the hearing. The ALJ may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record must be open to examination by the parties. Opportunity must be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issue. A transcript must be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record.
(c) Discovery may be conducted as provided in the rules of practice and procedure at 29 CFR 18.50 through 18.65.
(d) When a public officer is a respondent in a hearing in an official capacity and during its pendency dies, resigns, or otherwise ceases to hold office, the
proceeding does not abate and the officer's successor is automatically substituted as a party. Proceedings following the substitution must be in the name of the substituted party, but any misnomer not affecting the substantive rights of the parties must be disregarded. An order of substitution may be entered at any time, but the omission to enter such an order may not affect the substitution.
§ 658.710
Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
(a) The ALJ has jurisdiction to decide all issues of fact and related issues of law and to grant or deny appropriate motions, but does not have jurisdiction to decide upon the validity of Federal statutes or regulations.
(b) The decision of the ALJ must be based on the hearing record, must be in writing, and must state the factual and legal basis of the decision. The ALJ's decision must be available for public inspection and copying.
(c) Except when the case involves the decertification of a SWA, the decision of the ALJ will be considered the final decision of the Secretary.
(d) If the case involves the decertification of an appeal to the SWA, the decision of the ALJ must contain a notice stating that, within 30 calendar days of the decision, the SWA or the Administrator may appeal to the Administrative Review Board, United States Department of Labor, by filing an appeal with the Administrative Review Board in accordance with 29 CFR part 26.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 1778, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 658.711
Decision of the Administrative Review Board.
(a) Upon the receipt of an appeal to the Administrative Review Board, United States Department of Labor, the ALJ must certify the record in the case to the Administrative Review Board, which must make a decision to decertify or not on the basis of the hearing record.
(b) The decision of the Administrative Review Board must be in writing, and must set forth the factual and legal basis for the decision. After the Board's decision becomes final, notice of the decision must be published in the
Federal Register,
and copies must be made available for public inspection and copying.
[81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 13030, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30615, May 20, 2020]
Pt. 660

# PART 660—INTRODUCTION TO THE REGULATIONS FOR WORKFORCE INVESTMENT SYSTEMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT
Sec.
660.100
What is the purpose of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998?
660.200
What do the regulations for workforce investment systems under title I of the Workforce Investment Act cover?
660.300
What definitions apply to the regulations for workforce investment systems under title I of WIA?

# Authority:
Sec. 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49388, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 660.100
What is the purpose of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998?
The purpose of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (WIA) is to provide workforce investment activities that increase the employment, retention and earnings of participants, and increase occupational skill attainment by participants, which will improve the quality of the workforce, reduce welfare dependency, and enhance the productivity and competitiveness of the Nation's economy. These goals are achieved through the workforce investment system. (WIA sec. 106.)
§ 660.200
What do the regulations for workforce investment systems under title I of the Workforce Investment Act cover?
The regulations found in 20 CFR parts 660 through 671 set forth the regulatory requirements that are applicable to programs operated with funds provided under title I of WIA. This part 660 describes the purpose of that Act, explains the format of these regulations and sets forth definitions for terms that apply to each part. Part 661 contains regulations relating to Statewide
and local governance of the workforce investment system. Part 662 describes the One-Stop system and the roles of One-Stop partners. Part 663 sets forth requirements applicable to WIA title I programs serving adults and dislocated workers. Part 664 sets forth requirements applicable to WIA title I programs serving youth. Part 665 contains regulations relating to Statewide activities. Part 666 describes the WIA title I performance accountability system. Part 667 sets forth the administrative requirements applicable to programs funded under WIA title I. Parts 668 and 669 contain the particular requirements applicable to programs serving Indians and Native Americans and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers, respectively. Parts 670 and 671 describe the particular requirements applicable to the Job Corps and other national programs, respectively. In addition, part 652 describes the establishment and functioning of State Employment Services under the Wagner-Peyser Act, and 29 CFR part 37 contains the Department's nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIA section 188.
§ 660.300
What definitions apply to the regulations for workforce investment systems under title I of WIA?
In addition to the definitions set forth at WIA section 101, the following definitions apply to the regulations in 20 CFR parts 660 through 671:
Department or DOL
means the U.S. Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units.
Designated region
means a combination of local areas that are partly or completely in a single labor market area, economic development region, or other appropriate contiguous subarea of a State, that is designated by the State under WIA section 116(c), or a similar interstate region that is designated by two or more States under WIA section 116(c)(4).
Employment and training activity
means a workforce investment activity that is carried out for an adult or dislocated worker.
EO data
means data on race and ethnicity, age, sex, and disability required by 29 CFR part 37 of the DOL regulations implementing section 188 of WIA, governing nondiscrimination.
ETA
means the Employment and Training Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Grant
means an award of WIA financial assistance by the U.S. Department of Labor to an eligible WIA recipient.
Grantee
means the direct recipient of grant funds from the Department of Labor. A grantee may also be referred to as a recipient.
Individual with a disability
means an individual with any disability (as defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102)). For purposes of WIA section 188, this term is defined at 29 CFR 37.4.
Labor Federation
means an alliance of two or more organized labor unions for the purpose of mutual support and action.
Literacy
means an individual's ability to read, write, and speak in English, and to compute, and solve problems, at levels of proficiency necessary to function on the job, in the family of the individual, and in society.
Local Board
means a Local Workforce Investment Board established under WIA section 117, to set policy for the local workforce investment system.
Obligations
means the amounts of orders placed, contracts and subgrants awarded, goods and services received, and similar transactions during a funding period that will require payment by the recipient or subrecipient during the same or a future period. For purposes of the reallotment process described at 20 CFR 667.150, the Secretary also treats as State obligations any amounts allocated by the State under WIA sections 128(b) and 133(b) to a single area State or to a balance of State local area administered by a unit of the State government, and inter-agency transfers and other actions treated by the State as encumbrances against amounts reserved by the State under WIA sections 128(a) and 133(a) for Statewide workforce investment activities.
Outlying area
means the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.
Participant
means an individual who has registered under 20 CFR 663.105 or 664.215 and has been determined to be eligible to participate in and who is receiving services (except for follow up services) under a program authorized by WIA title I. Participation commences on the first day, following determination of eligibility, on which the individual begins receiving core, intensive, training or other services provided under WIA title I.
Recipient
means an entity to which a WIA grant is awarded directly from the Department of Labor to carry out a program under title I of WIA. The State is the recipient of funds awarded under WIA sections 127(b)(1)(C)(I)(II), 132(b)(1)(B) and 132(b)(2)(B). The recipient is the entire legal entity that received the award and is legally responsible for carrying out the WIA program, even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the grant award document.
Register
means the process for collecting information to determine an individual's eligibility for services under WIA title I. Individuals may be registered in a variety ways, as described in 20 CFR 663.105 and 20 CFR 664.215.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Self certification
means an individual's signed attestation that the information he/she submits to demonstrate eligibility for a program under title I of WIA is true and accurate.
State
means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The term “State” does not include outlying areas.
State Board
means a State Workforce Investment Board established under WIA section 111.
Subgrant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money made under a grant by a grantee to an eligible subrecipient. The term includes financial assistance when provided by contractual legal agreement, but does not include procurement purchases, nor does it include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of
Grant
in this part.
Subrecipient
means an entity to which a subgrant is awarded and which is accountable to the recipient (or higher tier subrecipient) for the use of the funds provided. DOL's audit requirements for States, local governments, and non-profit organizations provides guidance on distinguishing between a subrecipient and a vendor at 29 CFR 99.210.
Unobligated balance
means the portion of funds authorized by the Federal agency that has not been obligated by the grantee and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized.
Vendor
means an entity responsible for providing generally required goods or services to be used in the WIA program. These goods or services may be for the recipient's or subrecipient's own use or for the use of participants in the program. DOL's audit requirements for States, local governments, and non-profit organizations provides guidance on distinguishing between a subrecipient and a vendor at 29 CFR 99.210.
Wagner-Peyser Act
means the Act of June 6, 1933, as amended, codified at 29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
WIA regulations
mean the regulations in 20 CFR parts 660 through 671, the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations in 20 CFR part 652, subpart C, and the regulations implementing WIA section 188 in 29 CFR part 37.
Workforce investment activities
mean the array of activities permitted under title I of WIA, which include employment and training activities for adults and dislocated workers, as described in WIA section 134, and youth activities, as described in WIA section 129.
Youth activity
means a workforce investment activity that is carried out for youth.
Pt. 661

# PART 661—STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—General Governance Provisions
Sec.
661.100
What is the workforce investment system?
661.110
What is the role of the Department of Labor as the Federal governmental partner in the governance of the workforce investment system?
661.120
What are the roles of the local and State governmental partner in the governance of the workforce investment system?

# Subpart B—State Governance Provisions
661.200
What is the State Workforce Investment Board?
661.203
What is meant by the terms “optimum policy making authority” and “expertise relating to [a] program, service or activity”?
661.205
What is the role of the State Board?
661.207
How does the State Board meet its requirement to conduct business in an open manner under the “sunshine provision” of WIA section 111(g)?
661.210
Under what circumstances may the Governor select an alternative entity in place of the State Workforce Investment Board?
661.220
What are the requirements for the submission of the State Workforce Investment Plan?
661.230
What are the requirements for modification of the State Workforce Investment Plan?
661.240
How do the unified planning requirements apply to the five-year strategic WIA and Wagner-Peyser plan and to other Department of Labor plans?
661.250
What are the requirements for designation of local workforce investment areas?
661.260
What are the requirements for automatic designation of workforce investment areas relating to units of local government with a population of 500,000 or more?
661.270
What are the requirements for temporary and subsequent designation of workforce investment areas relating to areas that had been designated as service delivery areas under JTPA?
661.280
What right does an entity have to appeal the Governor's decision rejecting a request for designation as a workforce investment area?
661.290
Under what circumstances may States require Local Boards to take part in regional planning activities?

# Subpart C—Local Governance Provisions
661.300
What is the Local Workforce Investment Board?
661.305
What is the role of the Local Workforce Investment Board?
661.307
How does the Local Board meet its requirement to conduct business in an open manner under the “sunshine provision” of WIA section 117(e)?
661.310
Under what limited conditions may a Local Board directly be a provider of core services, intensive services, or training services, or act as a One-Stop Operator?
661.315
Who are the required members of the Local Workforce Investment Boards?
661.317
Who may be selected to represent a particular One-Stop partner program on the Local Board when there is more than one partner program entity in the local area?
661.320
Who must chair a Local Board?
661.325
What criteria will be used to establish the membership of the Local Board?
661.330
Under what circumstances may the State use an alternative entity as the Local Workforce Investment Board?
661.335
What is a youth council, and what is its relationship to the Local Board?
661.340
What are the responsibilities of the youth council?
661.345
What are the requirements for the submission of the local workforce investment plan?
661.350
What are the contents of the local workforce investment plan?
661.355
When must a local plan be modified?

# Subpart D—Waivers and Work-Flex Waivers
661.400
What is the purpose of the General Statutory and Regulatory Waiver Authority provided at section 189(i)(4) of the Workforce Investment Act?
661.410
What provisions of WIA and the Wagner-Peyser Act may be waived, and what provisions may not be waived?
661.420
Under what conditions may a Governor request, and the Secretary approve, a general waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements under WIA section189(i)(4)?
661.430
Under what conditions may the Governor submit a Workforce Flexibility Plan?
661.440
What limitations apply to the State's Workforce Flexibility Plan authority under WIA?

# Authority:
Sec. 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49390, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Governance Provisions
§ 661.100
What is the workforce investment system?
Under title I of WIA, the workforce investment system provides the framework for delivery of workforce investment activities at the State and local levels to individuals who need those services, including job seekers, dislocated workers, youth, incumbent workers, new entrants to the workforce, veterans, persons with disabilities, and employers. Each State's Governor is required, in accordance with the requirements of this part, to establish a State Board; to designate local workforce investment areas; and to oversee the creation of Local Boards and One-Stop service delivery systems in the State.
§ 661.110
What is the role of the Department of Labor as the Federal governmental partner in the governance of the workforce investment system?
(a) Successful governance of the workforce investment system will be achieved through cooperation and coordination of Federal, State and local governments.
(b) The Department of Labor sees as one of its primary roles providing leadership and guidance to support a system that meets the objectives of title I of WIA, and in which State and local partners have flexibility to design systems and deliver services in a manner designed to best achieve the goals of WIA based on their particular needs. The WIA regulations provide the framework in which State and local officials can exercise such flexibility within the confines of the statutory requirements. Wherever possible, system features such as design options and categories of services are broadly defined, and are subject to State and local interpretation.
(c) The Secretary, in consultation with other Federal Agencies, as appropriate, may publish guidance on interpretations of statutory and regulatory provisions. State and local policies, interpretations, guidelines and definitions that are consistent with interpretations contained in such guidance will be considered to be consistent with the Act for purposes of § 661.120.
§ 661.120
What are the roles of the local and State governmental partner in the governance of the workforce investment system?
(a) Local areas should establish policies, interpretations, guidelines and definitions to implement provisions of title I of WIA to the extent that such policies, interpretations, guidelines and definitions are not inconsistent with the Act and the regulations issued under the Act, Federal statutes and regulations governing One-Stop partner programs, and with State policies.
(b) States should establish policies, interpretations, guidelines and definitions to implement provisions of title I of WIA to the extent that such policies, interpretations, guidelines and definitions are not inconsistent with the Act and the regulations issued under the Act, as well as Federal statutes and regulations governing One-Stop partner programs.

# Subpart B—State Governance Provisions
§ 661.200
What is the State Workforce Investment Board?
(a) The State Board is a board established by the Governor in accordance with the requirements of WIA section 111 and this section.
(b) The membership of the State Board must meet the requirements of WIA section 111(b). The State Board must contain two or more members representing the categories described in WIA section 111(b)(1)(C)(iii)-(v), and special consideration must be given to chief executive officers of community colleges and community based organizations in the selection of members representing the entities identified in WIA section 111(b)(1)(C)(v).
(c) The Governor may appoint any other representatives or agency officials, such as agency officials responsible for economic development, child support and juvenile justice programs in the State.
(d) Members who represent organizations, agencies or other entities must be individuals with optimum policy making authority within the entities they represent.
(e) A majority of members of the State Board must be representatives of business. Members who represent business must be individuals who are owners, chief executive officers, chief operating officers, or other individuals with optimum policy making or hiring authority, including members of Local Boards.
(f) The Governor must appoint the business representatives from among individuals who are nominated by State business organizations and business trade associations. The Governor must appoint the labor representatives from among individuals who are nominated by State labor federations.
(g) The Governor must select a chairperson of the State Board from the business representatives on the board.
(h) The Governor may establish terms of appointment or other conditions governing appointment or membership on the State Board.
(i) For the programs and activities carried out by One-Stop partners, as described in WIA section 121(b) and 20 CFR 662.200 and 662.210, the State Board must include:
(1) The lead State agency officials with responsibility for such program, or
(2) In any case in which no lead State agency official has responsibility for such a program service, a representative in the State with expertise relating to such program, service or activity.
(3) If the director of the designated State unit, as defined in section 7(8)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act, does not represent the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services program (VR program) on the State Board, then the State must describe in its State plan how the member of the State Board representing the VR program will effectively represent the interests, needs, and priorities of the VR program and how the employment needs of individuals with disabilities in the State will be addressed.
(j) An individual may be appointed as a representative of more than one entity if the individual meets all the criteria for representation, including the criteria described in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, for each entity. (WIA sec. 111)
§ 661.203
What is meant by the terms “optimum policy making authority” and “expertise relating to [a] program, service or activity”?
For purposes of selecting representatives to State and local workforce investment boards:
(a) A representative with “optimum policy making authority” is an individual who can reasonably be expected to speak affirmatively on behalf of the entity he or she represents and to commit that entity to a chosen course of action.
(b) A representative with “expertise relating to [a] program, service or activity” includes a person who is an official with a One-stop partner program and a person with documented expertise relating to the One-stop partner program.
§ 661.205
What is the role of the State Board?
The State Board must assist the Governor in the:
(a) Development of the State Plan;
(b) Development and continuous improvement of a Statewide system of activities that are funded under subtitle B of title I of WIA, or carried out through the One-Stop delivery system, including—
(1) Development of linkages in order to assure coordination and nonduplication among the programs and activities carried out by One-Stop partners, including, as necessary, addressing any impasse situations in the development of the local Memorandum of Understanding; and
(2) Review of local plans;
(c) Commenting at least once annually on the measures taken under section 113(b)(14) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act;
(d) Designation of local workforce investment areas,
(e) Development of allocation formulas for the distribution of funds for adult employment and training activities and youth activities to local areas,
as permitted under WIA sections 128(b)(3)(B) and 133(b)(3)(B);
(f) Development and continuous improvement of comprehensive State performance measures, including State adjusted levels of performance, to assess the effectiveness of the workforce investment activities in the State, as required under WIA section 136(b);
(g) Preparation of the annual report to the Secretary described in WIA section 136(d);
(h) Development of the Statewide employment statistics system described in section 15(e) of the Wagner-Peyser Act; and
(i) Development of an application for an incentive grant under WIA section 503. (WIA sec. 111(d).)
§ 661.207
How does the State Board meet its requirement to conduct business in an open manner under the “sunshine provision” of WIA section 111(g)?
The State Board must conduct its business in an open manner as required by WIA section 111(g), by making available to the public, on a regular basis through open meetings, information about the activities of the State Board. This includes information about the State Plan prior to submission of the plan; information about membership; the development of significant policies, interpretations, guidelines and definitions; and, on request, minutes of formal meetings of the State Board.
§ 661.210
Under what circumstances may the Governor select an alternative entity in place of the State Workforce Investment Board?
(a) The State may use any State entity that meets the requirements of WIA section 111(e) to perform the functions of the State Board.
(b) If the State uses an alternative entity, the State workforce investment plan must demonstrate that the alternative entity meets all three of the requirements of WIA section 111(e). Section 111(e) requires that such entity:
(1) Was in existence on December 31, 1997;
(2)(i) Was established under section 122 (relating to State Job Training Coordinating Councils) or title VII (relating to State Human Resource Investment Councils) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C.1501
et seq.
), as in effect on December 31, 1997, or
(ii) Is substantially similar to the State Board described in WIA section 111(a), (b), and (c) and § 661.200; and
(3) Includes, at a minimum, two or more representatives of business in the State and two or more representatives of labor organizations in the State.
(c) If the alternative entity does not provide for representative membership of each of the categories of required State Board membership under WIA section 111(b), the State Plan must explain the manner in which the State will ensure an ongoing role for any unrepresented membership group in the workforce investment system. The State Board may maintain an ongoing role for an unrepresented membership group, including entities carrying out One-stop partner programs, by means such as regularly scheduled consultations with entities within the unrepresented membership groups, by providing an opportunity for input into the State Plan or other policy development by unrepresented membership groups, or by establishing an advisory committee of unrepresented membership groups.
(d) If the membership structure of the alternative entity is significantly changed after December 31, 1997, the entity will no longer be eligible to perform the functions of the State Board. In such case, the Governor must establish a new State Board which meets all of the criteria of WIA section 111(b).
(e) A significant change in the membership structure includes any significant change in the organization of the alternative entity or in the categories of entities represented on the alternative entity which requires a change to the alternative entity's charter or a similar document that defines the formal organization of the alternative entity, regardless of whether the required change to the document has or has not been made. A significant change in the membership structure is considered to have occurred when members are added to represent groups not previously represented on the entity. A significant change in the membership structure is not considered to have occurred when additional members are added to an existing membership category, when non-
voting members are added, or when a member is added to fill a vacancy created in an existing membership category.
(f) In 20 CFR parts 660 through 671, all references to the State Board also apply to an alternative entity used by a State.
§ 661.220
What are the requirements for the submission of the State Workforce Investment Plan?
(a) The Governor of each State must submit a State Workforce Investment Plan (State Plan) in order to be eligible to receive funding under title I of WIA and the Wagner-Peyser Act. The State Plan must outline the State's five year strategy for the workforce investment system.
(b) The State Plan must be submitted in accordance with planning guidelines issued by the Secretary of Labor. The planning guidelines set forth the information necessary to document the State's vision, goals, strategies, policies and measures for the workforce investment system (that were arrived at through the collaboration of the Governor, chief elected officials, business and other parties), as well as the information required to demonstrate compliance with WIA, and the information detailed by WIA and the WIA regulations, including 29 CFR part 37, and the Wagner-Peyser Act and the Wagner-Peyser regulations at 20 CFR part 652:
(c) The State Plan must contain a description of the State's performance accountability system, and the State performance measures in accordance with the requirements of WIA section 136 and 20 CFR part 666.
(d) The State must provide an opportunity for public comment on and input into the development of the State Plan prior to its submission. The opportunity for public comment must include an opportunity for comment by representatives of business, representatives of labor organizations, and chief elected official(s) and must be consistent with the requirement, at WIA section 111(g), that the State Board makes information regarding the State Plan and other State Board activities available to the public through regular open meetings. The State Plan must describe the State's process and timeline for ensuring a meaningful opportunity for public comment.
(e) The Secretary reviews completed plans and must approve all plans within ninety days of their submission, unless the Secretary determines in writing that:
(1) The plan is inconsistent with the provisions of title I of WIA or the WIA regulations, including 29 CFR part 37. For example, a finding of inconsistency would be made if the Secretary and the Governor have not reached agreement on the adjusted levels of performance under WIA section 136(b)(3)(A), or there is not an effective strategy in place to ensure development of a fully operational One-Stop delivery system in the State; or
(2) The portion of the plan describing the detailed Wagner-Peyser plan does not satisfy the criteria for approval of such plans as provided in section 8(d) of the Wagner-Peyser Act or the Wagner-Peyser regulations at 20 CFR part 652.
(3) A plan which is incomplete, or which does not contain sufficient information to determine whether it is consistent with the statutory or regulatory requirements of title I of WIA or of section 8(d) of the Wagner-Peyser Act, will be considered to be inconsistent with those requirements.
§ 661.230
What are the requirements for modification of the State Workforce Investment Plan?
(a) The State may submit a modification of its workforce investment plan at any time during the five-year life of the plan.
(b) Modifications are required when:
(1) Changes in Federal or State law or policy substantially change the assumptions upon which the plan is based.
(2) There are changes in the Statewide vision, strategies, policies, performance indicators, the methodology used to determine local allocation of funds, reorganizations which change the working relationship with system employees, changes in organizational responsibilities, changes to the membership structure of the State Board or alternative entity and similar substantial changes to the State's workforce investment system.
(3) The State has failed to meet performance goals, and must adjust service strategies.
(c) Modifications are required in accordance with the Wagner-Peyser provisions at 20 CFR 652.212.
(d) Modifications to the State Plan are subject to the same public review and comment requirements that apply to the development of the original State Plan.
(e) State Plan modifications will be approved by the Secretary based on the approval standard applicable to the original State Plan under § 661.220(e).
§ 661.240
How do the unified planning requirements apply to the five-year strategic WIA and Wagner-Peyser plan and to other Department of Labor plans?
(a) A State may submit to the Secretary a unified plan for any of the programs or activities described in WIA section 501(b)(2). This includes the following DOL programs and activities:
(1) The five-year strategic WIA and Wagner-Peyser plan;
(2) Trade adjustment assistance activities and NAFTA-TAA;
(3) Veterans' programs under 38 U.S.C. Chapter 41;
(4) Programs authorized under State unemployment compensation laws;
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Senior Community Service Employment Programs under title V of the Older Americans Act.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) A State may submit, as part of the unified plan, any plan, application form or any other similar document, that is required as a condition for the approval of Federal funding under the applicable program. These plans include such things as the WIA plan. They do not include jointly executed funding instruments, such as grant agreements, or Governor/Secretary Agreements or items such as corrective actions plans.
(2) A state may submit a unified plan meeting the requirements of the Interagency guidance entitled
State Unified Plan, Planning Guidance for State Unified Plans Under Section 501 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998,
in lieu of completing the individual State planning guidelines of the programs covered by the unified plan.
(c) A State which submits a unified plan covering an activity or program described in subsection 501(b) of WIA that is approved under subsection 501(d) of the Act will not be required to submit any other plan or application in order to receive Federal funds to carry out the activity or program.
(d) Each portion of a unified plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the particular requirements of Federal law authorizing the program. All grantees are still subject to such things as reporting and record-keeping requirements, corrective action plan requirements and other generally applicable requirements.
(e) A unified plan must contain the information required by WIA section 501(c) and will be approved in accordance with the requirements of WIA section 501(d).
[65 FR 49390, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 35525, June 21, 2006]
§ 661.250
What are the requirements for designation of local workforce investment areas?
(a) The Governor must designate local workforce investment areas in order for the State to receive funding under title I of WIA.
(b) The Governor must take into consideration the factors described in WIA section 116(a)(1)(B) in making designations of local areas. Such designation must be made in consultation with the State Board, and after consultation with chief elected officials. The Governor must also consider comments received through the public comment process described in the State workforce investment plan under § 661.220(d).
(c) The Governor may approve a request for designation as a workforce investment area from any unit of general local government, including a combination of such units, if the State Board determines that the area meets the requirements of WIA section 116(a)(1)(B) and recommends designation.
(d) The Governor of any State that was a single service delivery area State under the Job Training Partnership Act as of July 1, 1998, and only those
States, may designate the State as a single local workforce investment area State. (WIA sec.116.)
§ 661.260
What are the requirements for automatic designation of workforce investment areas relating to units of local government with a population of 500,000 or more?
The requirements for automatic designation relating to units of local government with a population of 500,000 or more and to rural concentrated employment programs are contained in WIA section 116(a)(2). The Governor has authority to determine the source of population data to use in making these designations.
§ 661.270
What are the requirements for temporary and subsequent designation of workforce investment areas relating to areas that had been designated as service delivery areas under JTPA?
The requirements for temporary and subsequent designation relating to areas that had been designated as service delivery areas under JTPA are contained in WIA section 116(a)(3).
§ 661.280
What right does an entity have to appeal the Governor's decision rejecting a request for designation as a workforce investment area?
(a) A unit of local government (or combination of units) or a rural concentrated employment program grant recipient (as described at WIA section 116(a)(2)(B), which has requested but has been denied its request for designation as a workforce investment area under §§ 661.260 through 661.270, may appeal the decision to the State Board, in accordance with appeal procedures established in the State Plan.
(b) If a decision on the appeal is not rendered in a timely manner or if the appeal to the State Board does not result in designation, the entity may request review by the Secretary of Labor, under the procedures set forth at 20 CFR 667.640(a).
(c) The Secretary may require that the area be designated as a workforce investment area, if the Secretary determines that:
(1) The entity was not accorded procedural rights under the State appeals process; or
(2) The area meets the automatic designation requirements at WIA section 116(a)(2) or the temporary and subsequent designation requirements at WIA section 116(a)(3), as appropriate.
§ 661.290
Under what circumstances may States require Local Boards to take part in regional planning activities?
(a) The State may require Local Boards within a designated region (as defined at 20 CFR 660.300) to:
(1) Participate in a regional planning process that results in regional performance measures for workforce investment activities under title I of WIA. Regions that meet or exceed the regional performance measures may receive regional incentive grants;
(2) Share, where feasible, employment and other types of information that will assist in improving the performance of all local areas in the designated region on local performance measures; and
(3) Coordinate the provision of WIA title I services, including supportive services such as transportation, across the boundaries of local areas within the designated region.
(b) Two or more States may designate a labor market area, economic development region, or other appropriate contiguous subarea of the States as an interstate region. In such cases, the States may jointly exercise the State's functions described in this section.
(c) Designation of intrastate regions and interstate regions and their corresponding performance measures must be described in the respective State Plan(s). For interstate regions, the roles of the respective Governors, State Boards and Local Boards must be described in the respective State Plans.
(d) Unless agreed to by all affected chief elected officials and the Governor, these regional planning activities may not substitute for or replace the requirements applicable to each local area under other provisions of the WIA. (WIA sec. 116(a).)

# Subpart C—Local Governance Provisions
§ 661.300
What is the Local Workforce Investment Board?
(a) The Local Workforce Investment Board (Local Board) is appointed by the chief elected official in each local area in accordance with State criteria established under WIA section 117(b), and is certified by the Governor every two years, in accordance with WIA section 117(c)(2).
(b) In partnership with the chief elected official(s), the Local Board sets policy for the portion of the Statewide workforce investment system within the local area.
(c) The Local Board and the chief elected official(s) may enter into an agreement that describes the respective roles and responsibilities of the parties.
(d) The Local Board, in partnership with the chief elected official, develops the local workforce investment plan and performs the functions described in WIA section 117(d). (WIA sec.117 (d).)
(e) If a local area includes more than one unit of general local government in accordance with WIA section 117 (c)(1)(B), the chief elected officials of such units may execute an agreement to describe their responsibilities for carrying out the roles and responsibilities. If, after a reasonable effort, the chief elected officials are unable to reach agreement, the Governor may appoint the members of the local board from individuals nominated or recommended as specified in WIA section 117(b).
(f) If the State Plan indicates that the State will be treated as a local area under WIA title I, the Governor may designate the State Board to carry out any of the roles of the Local Board.
§ 661.305
What is the role of the Local Workforce Investment Board?
(a) WIA section 117(d) specifies that the Local Board is responsible for:
(1) Developing the five-year local workforce investment plan (Local Plan) and conducting oversight of the One-Stop system, youth activities and employment and training activities under title I of WIA, in partnership with the chief elected official;
(2) Selecting One-Stop operators with the agreement of the chief elected official;
(3) Selecting eligible youth service providers based on the recommendations of the youth council, and identifying eligible providers of adult and dislocated worker intensive services and training services, and maintaining a list of eligible providers with performance and cost information, as required in 20 CFR part 663, subpart E;
(4) Developing a budget for the purpose of carrying out the duties of the Local Board, subject to the approval of the chief elected official;
(5) Negotiating and reaching agreement on local performance measures with the chief elected official and the Governor;
(6) Assisting the Governor in developing the Statewide employment statistics system under the Wagner-Peyser Act;
(7) Coordinating workforce investment activities with economic development strategies and developing employer linkages; and
(8) Promoting private sector involvement in the Statewide workforce investment system through effective connecting, brokering, and coaching activities through intermediaries such as the One-Stop operator in the local area or through other organizations, to assist employers in meeting hiring needs.
(b) The Local Board, in cooperation with the chief elected official, appoints a youth council as a subgroup of the Local Board and coordinates workforce and youth plans and activities with the youth council, in accordance with WIA section 117(h) and § 661.335.
(c) Local Boards which are part of a State designated region for regional planning must carry out the regional planning responsibilities required by the State in accordance with WIA section 116(c) and § 661.290. (WIA sec. 117.)
§ 661.307
How does the Local Board meet its requirement to conduct business in an open manner under the “sunshine provision” of WIA section 117(e)?
The Local Board must conduct its business in an open manner as required by WIA section 117(e), by making available to the public, on a regular basis
through open meetings, information about the activities of the Local Board. This includes information about the Local Plan prior to submission of the plan; information about membership; the development of significant policies, interpretations, guidelines and definitions; and, on request, minutes of formal meetings of the Local Board.
§ 661.310
Under what limited conditions may a Local Board directly be a provider of core services, intensive services, or training services, or act as a One-Stop Operator?
(a) A Local Board may not directly provide core services, or intensive services, or be designated or certified as a One-Stop operator, unless agreed to by the chief elected official and the Governor.
(b) A Local Board is prohibited from providing training services, unless the Governor grants a waiver in accordance with the provisions in WIA section 117(f)(1). The waiver shall apply for not more than one year. The waiver may be renewed for additional periods, but for not more than one additional year at a time.
(c) The restrictions on the provision of core, intensive, and training services by the Local Board, and designation or certification as One-Stop operator, also apply to staff of the Local Board. (WIA sec. 117(f)(1) and (f)(2).)
§ 661.315
Who are the required members of the Local Workforce Investment Boards?
(a) The membership of Local Board must be selected in accordance with criteria established under WIA section 117(b)(1) and must meet the requirements of WIA section 117(b)(2). The Local Board must contain two or more members representing the categories described in WIA section 117(b)(2)(A)(ii)-(v), and special consideration must be given to the entities identified in WIA section 117(b)(2)(A)(ii), (iv) and (v) in the selection of members representing those categories. The Local Board must contain at least one member representing each One-Stop partner.
(b) The membership of Local Boards may include individuals or representatives of other appropriate entities, including entities representing individuals with multiple barriers to employment and other special populations, as determined by the chief elected official.
(c) Members who represent organizations, agencies or other entities must be individuals with optimum policy making authority within the entities they represent.
(d) A majority of the members of the Local Board must be representatives of business in the local area. Members representing business must be individuals who are owners, chief executive officers, chief operating officers, or other individuals with optimum policymaking or hiring authority. Business representatives serving on Local Boards may also serve on the State Board.
(e) Chief elected officials must appoint the business representatives from among individuals who are nominated by local business organizations and business trade associations. Chief elected officials must appoint the labor representatives from among individuals who are nominated by local labor federations (or, for a local area in which no employees are represented by such organizations, other representatives of employees). (WIA sec. 117(b).)
(f) An individual may be appointed as a representative of more than one entity if the individual meets all the criteria for representation, including the criteria described in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, for each entity.
§ 661.317
Who may be selected to represent a particular One-Stop partner program on the Local Board when there is more than one partner program entity in the local area?
When there is more than one grant recipient, administrative entity or organization responsible for administration of funds of a particular One-stop partner program in the local area, the chief elected official may appoint one or more members to represent all of those particular partner program entities. In making such appointments, the local elected official may solicit nominations from the partner program entities.
§ 661.320
Who must chair a Local Board?
The Local Board must elect a chairperson from among the business representatives on the board. (WIA sec. 117(b)(5).)
§ 661.325
What criteria will be used to establish the membership of the Local Board?
The Local Board is appointed by the chief elected official(s) in the local area in accordance with State criteria established under WIA section 117(b), and is certified by the Governor every two years, in accordance with WIA section 117(c)(2). The criteria for certification must be described in the State Plan. (WIA sec. 117(c).)
§ 661.330
Under what circumstances may the State use an alternative entity as the Local Workforce Investment Board?
(a) The State may use any local entity that meets the requirements of WIA section 117(i) to perform the functions of the Local Board. WIA section 117(i) requires that such entity:
(1) Was established to serve the local area (or the service delivery area that most closely corresponds to the local area);
(2) Was in existence on December 31, 1997;
(3)(i) Is a Private Industry Council established under section 102 of the Job Training Partnership Act, as in effect on December 31, 1997; or
(ii) Is substantially similar to the Local Board described in WIA section 117 (a), (b), and (c) and (h)(1) and (2); and,
(4) Includes, at a minimum, two or more representatives of business in the local area and two or more representatives of labor organizations nominated by local labor federations or employees in the local area.
(b)(1) If the Governor certifies an alternative entity to perform the functions of the Local Board; the State workforce investment plan must demonstrate that the alternative entity meets the requirements of WIA section 117(i), set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the alternative entity does not provide for representative membership of each of the categories of required Local Board membership under WIA section 117(b), including all of the One-stop partner programs, the local workforce investment plan must explain the manner in which the Local Board will ensure an ongoing role for the unrepresented membership group in the local workforce investment system.
(3) The Local Board may provide an ongoing role for an unrepresented membership group, including entities carrying out One-stop partner programs, by means such as regularly scheduled consultations with entities within the unrepresented membership groups, by providing an opportunity for input into the local plan or other policy development by unrepresented membership groups, or by establishing an advisory committee of unrepresented membership groups. The Local Board must enter into good faith negotiations over the terms of the MOU with all entities carrying out One-stop partner programs, including programs not represented on the alternative entity.
(c) If the membership structure of an alternative entity is significantly changed after December 31, 1997, the entity will no longer be eligible to perform the functions of the Local Board. In such case, the chief elected official(s) must establish a new Local Board which meets all of the criteria of WIA section 117(a), (b), and (c) and (h)(1) and (2).
(d) A significant change in the membership structure includes any significant change in the organization of the alternative entity or in the categories of entities represented on the alternative entity which requires a change to the alternative entity's charter or a similar document that defines the formal organization of the alternative entity, regardless of whether the required change to the document has or has not been made. A significant change in the membership structure is considered to have occurred when members are added to represent groups not previously represented on the entity. A significant change in the membership structure is not considered to have occurred when additional members are added to an existing membership category, when non-voting members (including a Youth
Council) are added, or when a member is added to fill a vacancy created in an existing membership category.
(e) In 20 CFR parts 660 through 671, all references to the Local Board must be deemed to also apply to an alternative entity used by a local area. (WIA sec. 117(i).)
§ 661.335
What is a youth council, and what is its relationship to the Local Board?
(a) A youth council must be established as a subgroup within each Local Board.
(b) The membership of each youth council must include:
(1) Members of the Local Board, such as educators, which may include special education personnel, employers, and representatives of human service agencies, who have special interest or expertise in youth policy;
(2) Members who represent service agencies, such as juvenile justice and local law enforcement agencies;
(3) Members who represent local public housing authorities;
(4) Parents of eligible youth seeking assistance under subtitle B of title I of WIA;
(5) Individuals, including former participants, and members who represent organizations, that have experience relating to youth activities; and
(6) Members who represent the Job Corps, if a Job Corps Center is located in the local area represented by the council.
(c) Youth councils may include other individuals, who the chair of the Local Board, in cooperation with the chief elected official, determines to be appropriate.
(d) Members of the youth council who are not members of the Local Board must be voting members of the youth council and nonvoting members of the Local Board.
§ 661.340
What are the responsibilities of the youth council?
The youth council is responsible for:
(a) Coordinating youth activities in a local area;
(b) Developing portions of the local plan related to eligible youth, as determined by the chairperson of the Local Board;
(c) Recommending eligible youth service providers in accordance with WIA section 123, subject to the approval of the Local Board;
(d) Conducting oversight with respect to eligible providers of youth activities in the local area, subject to the approval of the Local Board; and
(e) Carrying out other duties, as authorized by the chairperson of the Local Board, such as establishing linkages with educational agencies and other youth entities.
§ 661.345
What are the requirements for the submission of the local workforce investment plan?
(a) WIA section 118 requires that each Local Board, in partnership with the appropriate chief elected officials, develops and submits a comprehensive five-year plan to the Governor which identifies and describes certain policies, procedures and local activities that are carried out in the local area, and that is consistent with the State Plan.
(b) The Local Board must provide an opportunity for public comment on and input into the development of the local workforce investment plan prior to its submission, and the opportunity for public comment on the local plan must:
(1) Make copies of the proposed local plan available to the public (through such means as public hearings and local news media);
(2) Include an opportunity for comment by members of the Local Board and members of the public, including representatives of business and labor organizations;
(3) Provide at least a thirty (30) day period for comment, beginning on the date on which the proposed plan is made available, prior to its submission to the Governor; and
(4) Be consistent with the requirement, in WIA section 117(e), that the Local Board make information about the plan available to the public on a regular basis through open meetings.
(c) The Local Board must submit any comments that express disagreement with the plan to the Governor along with the plan.
§ 661.350
What are the contents of the local workforce investment plan?
(a) The local workforce investment plan must meet the requirements of WIA section 118(b). The plan must include:
(1) An identification of the workforce investment needs of businesses, job-seekers, and workers in the local area;
(2) An identification of current and projected employment opportunities and job skills necessary to obtain such opportunities;
(3) A description of the One-Stop delivery system to be established or designated in the local area, including:
(i) How the Local Board will ensure continuous improvement of eligible providers of services and ensure that such providers meet the employment needs of local employers and participants; and
(ii) A copy of the local Memorandum(s) of Understanding between the Local Board and each of the One-Stop partners concerning the operation of the local One-Stop delivery system;
(4) A description of the local levels of performance negotiated with the Governor and the chief elected official(s) to be used by the Local Board for measuring the performance of the local fiscal agent (where appropriate), eligible providers, and the local One-Stop delivery system;
(5) A description and assessment of the type and availability of adult and dislocated worker employment and training activities in the local area, including a description of the local ITA system and the procedures for ensuring that exceptions to the use of ITA's, if any, are justified under WIA section 134(d)(4)(G)(ii) and 20 CFR 663.430;
(6) A description of how the Local Board will coordinate local activities with Statewide rapid response activities;
(7) A description and assessment of the type and availability of youth activities in the local area, including an identification of successful providers of such activities;
(8) A description of the process used by the Local Board to provide opportunity for public comment, including comment by representatives of business and labor organizations, and input into the development of the local plan, prior to the submission of the plan;
(9) An identification of the fiscal agent, or entity responsible for the disbursal of grant funds;
(10) A description of the competitive process to be used to award grants and contracts for activities carried out under this subtitle I of WIA, including the process to be used to procure training services that are made as exceptions to the Individual Training Account process (WIA section 134(d)(4)(G)),
(11) A description of the criteria to be used by the Governor and the Local Board, under 20 CFR 663.600, to determine whether funds allocated to a local area for adult employment and training activities under WIA sections 133(b)(2)(A) or (3) are limited, and the process by which any priority will be applied by the One-Stop operator;
(12) In cases where an alternate entity functions as the Local Board, the information required at § 661.330(b), and
(13) Such other information as the Governor may require.
(b) The Governor must review completed plans and must approve all such plans within ninety days of their submission, unless the Governor determines in writing that:
(1) There are deficiencies identified in local workforce investment activities carried out under this subtitle that have not been sufficiently addressed; or
(2) The plan does not comply with title I of WIA and the WIA regulations, including the required consultations, the public comment provisions, and the nondiscrimination requirements of 29 CFR part 37.
(c) In cases where the State is a single local area:
(1) The Secretary performs the roles assigned to the Governor as they relate to local planning activities.
(2) The Secretary issues planning guidance for such States.
(3) The requirements found in WIA and in the WIA regulations for consultation with chief elected officials apply to the development of State and local plans and to the development and operation of the One-Stop delivery system.
(d) During program year 2000, if a local plan does not contain all of the
elements described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Governor may approve a local plan on a transitional basis. A transitional approval under this paragraph is considered to be a written determination that the local plan is not approved under paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 661.355
When must a local plan be modified?
The Governor must establish procedures governing the modification of local plans. Situations in which modifications may be required by the Governor include significant changes in local economic conditions, changes in the financing available to support WIA title I and partner-provided WIA services, changes to the Local Board structure, or a need to revise strategies to meet performance goals.

# Subpart D—Waivers and Work-Flex Waivers
§ 661.400
What is the purpose of the General Statutory and Regulatory Waiver Authority provided at section 189(i)(4) of the Workforce Investment Act?
(a) The purpose of the general statutory and regulatory waiver authority is to provide flexibility to States and local areas and enhance their ability to improve the statewide workforce investment system.
(b) A waiver may be requested to address impediments to the implementation of a strategic plan, including the continuous improvement strategy, consistent with the key reform principles of WIA. These key reform principles include:
(1) Streamlining services and information to participants through a One-Stop delivery system;
(2) Empowering individuals to obtain needed services and information to enhance their employment opportunities;
(3) Ensuring universal access to core employment-related services;
(4) Increasing accountability of States, localities and training providers for performance outcomes;
(5) Establishing a stronger role for Local Boards and the private sector;
(6) Providing increased State and local flexibility to implement innovative and comprehensive workforce investment systems; and
(7) Improving youth programs through services which emphasize academic and occupational learning.
§ 661.410
What provisions of WIA and the Wagner-Peyser Act may be waived, and what provisions may not be waived?
(a) The Secretary may waive any of the statutory or regulatory requirements of subtitles B and E of title I of WIA, except for requirements relating to:
(1) Wage and labor standards;
(2) Non-displacement protections;
(3) Worker rights;
(4) Participation and protection of workers and participants;
(5) Grievance procedures and judicial review;
(6) Nondiscrimination;
(7) Allocation of funds to local areas;
(8) Eligibility of providers or participants;
(9) The establishment and functions of local areas and local boards;
(10) Procedures for review and approval of State and Local plans; and
(b) The Secretary may waive any of the statutory or regulatory requirements of sections 8 through 10 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49g-49i) except for requirements relating to:
(1) The provision of services to unemployment insurance claimants and veterans; and
(2) Universal access to the basic labor exchange services without cost to job seekers.
(c) The Secretary does not intend to waive any of the statutory or regulatory provisions essential to the key reform principles embodied in the Workforce Investment Act, described in § 661.400, except in extremely unusual circumstances where the provision can be demonstrated as impeding reform. (WIA sec. 189(i).)
§ 661.420
Under what conditions may a Governor request, and the Secretary approve, a general waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements under WIA section 189(i)(4)?
(a) A Governor may request a general waiver in consultation with appropriate chief elected officials:
(1) By submitting a waiver plan which may accompany the State's WIA 5-year strategic Plan; or
(2) After a State's WIA Plan is approved, by directly submitting a waiver plan.
(b) A Governor's waiver request may seek waivers for the entire State or for one or more local areas.
(c) A Governor requesting a general waiver must submit to the Secretary a plan to improve the Statewide workforce investment system that:
(1) Identifies the statutory or regulatory requirements for which a waiver is requested and the goals that the State or local area, as appropriate, intends to achieve as a result of the waiver and how those goals relate to the Strategic Plan goals;
(2) Describes the actions that the State or local area, as appropriate, has undertaken to remove State or local statutory or regulatory barriers;
(3) Describes the goals of the waiver and the expected programmatic outcomes if the request is granted;
(4) Describes the individuals affected by the waiver; and
(5) Describes the processes used to:
(i) Monitor the progress in implementing the waiver;
(ii) Provide notice to any Local Board affected by the waiver;
(iii) Provide any Local Board affected by the waiver an opportunity to comment on the request; and
(iv) Ensure meaningful public comment, including comment by business and organized labor, on the waiver.
(d) The Secretary issues a decision on a waiver request within 90 days after the receipt of the original waiver request.
(e) The Secretary will approve a waiver request if and only to the extent that:
(1) The Secretary determines that the requirements for which a waiver is requested impede the ability of either the State or local area to implement the State's plan to improve the Statewide workforce investment system;
(2) The Secretary determines that the waiver plan meets all of the requirements of WIA section 189(i)(4) and §§ 661.400 through 661.420; and
(3) The State has executed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Secretary requiring the State to meet, or ensure that the local area meets, agreed-upon outcomes and to implement other appropriate measures to ensure accountability.
(f) The Secretary will issue guidelines under which the States may request general waivers of WIA and Wagner-Peyser requirements. (WIA sec. 189(i).)
§ 661.430
Under what conditions may the Governor submit a Workforce Flexibility Plan?
(a) A State may submit to the Secretary, and the Secretary may approve, a workforce flexibility (work-flex) plan under which the State is authorized to waive, in accordance with the plan:
(1) Any of the statutory or regulatory requirements under title I of WIA applicable to local areas, if the local area requests the waiver in a waiver application, except for:
(i) Requirements relating to the basic purposes of title I of WIA;
(ii) Wage and labor standards;
(iii) Grievance procedures and judicial review;
(iv) Nondiscrimination;
(v) Eligibility of participants;
(vi) Allocation of funds to local areas;
(vii) Establishment and functions of local areas and local boards;
(viii) Review and approval of local plans;
(ix) Worker rights, participation, and protection; and
(x) Any of the statutory provisions essential to the key reform principles embodied in the Workforce Investment Act, described in § 661.400.
(2) Any of the statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to the State under section 8 through 10 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49g-49i), except for requirements relating to:
(i) The provision of services to unemployment insurance claimants and veterans; and
(ii) Universal access to basic labor exchange services without cost to job seekers; and
(3) Any of the statutory or regulatory requirements under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (OAA) (42 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
), applicable to State agencies on aging with respect to activities carried
out using funds allotted under OAA section 506(a)(3) (42 U.S.C. 3056d(a)(3)), except for requirements relating to:
(i) The basic purposes of OAA;
(ii) Wage and labor standards;
(iii) Eligibility of participants in the activities; and
(iv) Standards for agreements.
(b) A State's workforce flexibility plan may accompany the State's five-year Strategic Plan or may be submitted separately. If it is submitted separately, the workforce flexibility plan must identify related provisions in the State's five-year Strategic Plan.
(c) A workforce flexibility plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must include descriptions of:
(1) The process by which local areas in the State may submit and obtain State approval of applications for waivers;
(2) The statutory and regulatory requirements of title I of WIA that are likely to be waived by the State under the workforce flexibility plan;
(3) The statutory and regulatory requirements of sections 8 through 10 of the Wagner-Peyser Act that are proposed for waiver, if any;
(4) The statutory and regulatory requirements of the Older Americans Act of 1965 that are proposed for waiver, if any;
(5) The outcomes to be achieved by the waivers described in paragraphs (c)(1) to (4) of this section including, where appropriate, revisions to adjusted levels of performance included in the State or local plan under title I of WIA; and
(6) The measures to be taken to ensure appropriate accountability for Federal funds in connection with the waivers.
(d) The Secretary may approve a workforce flexibility plan for a period of up to five years.
(e) Before submitting a workforce flexibility plan to the Secretary for approval, the State must provide adequate notice and a reasonable opportunity for comment on the proposed waiver requests under the workforce flexibility plan to all interested parties and to the general public.
(f) The Secretary will issue guidelines under which States may request designation as a work-flex State.
§ 661.440
What limitations apply to the State's Workforce Flexibility Plan authority under WIA?
(a)(1) Under work-flex waiver authority a State must not waive the WIA, Wagner-Peyser or Older Americans Act requirements which are excepted from the work-flex waiver authority and described in § 661.430(a).
(2) Requests to waive statutory and regulatory requirements of title I of WIA applicable at the State level may not be granted under work-flex waiver authority granted to a State. Such requests may only be granted by the Secretary under the general waiver authority described at §§ 661.410 through 661.420.
(b) As required in § 661.430(c)(5), States must address the outcomes to result from work-flex waivers as part of its workforce flexibility plan. Once approved, a State's work-flex designation is conditioned on the State demonstrating it has met the agreed-upon outcomes contained in its workforce flexibility plan.
Pt. 662

# PART 662—DESCRIPTION OF THE ONE-STOP SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—General Description of the One-Stop Delivery System
Sec.
662.100
What is the One-Stop delivery system?

# Subpart B—One-Stop Partners and the Responsibilities of Partners
662.200
Who are the required One-Stop partners?
662.210
What other entities may serve as One-Stop partners?
662.220
What entity serves as the One-Stop partner for a particular program in the local area?
662.230
What are the responsibilities of the required One-Stop partners?
662.240
What are a program's applicable core services?
662.250
Where and to what extent must required One-Stop partners make core services available?
662.260
What services, in addition to the applicable core services, are to be provided by One-Stop partners through the One-Stop delivery system?
662.270
How are the costs of providing services through the One-Stop delivery system and the operating costs of the system to be funded?
662.280
Does title I require One-Stop partners to use their funds for individuals who are not eligible for the partner's program or for services that are not authorized under the partner's program?

# Subpart C—Memorandum of Understanding for the One-Stop Delivery System
662.300
What is the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)?
662.310
Is there a single MOU for the local area or are there to be separate MOU's between the Local Board and each partner?

# Subpart D—One-Stop Operators
662.400
Who is the One-Stop operator?
662.410
How is the One-Stop operator selected?
662.420
Under what limited conditions may the Local Board be designated or certified as the One-Stop operator?
662.430
Under what conditions may One-Stop operators designated to operate in a One-Stop delivery system established prior to the enactment of WIA be designated to continue to act as a One-Stop operator under WIA without meeting the requirements of § 662.410(b)?

# Authority:
Sec. 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49398, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Description of the One-Stop Delivery System
§ 662.100
What is the One-Stop delivery system?
(a) In general, the One-Stop delivery system is a system under which entities responsible for administering separate workforce investment, educational, and other human resource programs and funding streams (referred to as One-Stop partners) collaborate to create a seamless system of service delivery that will enhance access to the programs' services and improve long-term employment outcomes for individuals receiving assistance.
(b) Title I of WIA assigns responsibilities at the local, State and Federal level to ensure the creation and maintenance of a One-Stop delivery system that enhances the range and quality of workforce development services that are accessible to individuals seeking assistance.
(c) The system must include at least one comprehensive physical center in each local area that must provide the core services specified in WIA section 134(d)(2), and must provide access to other programs and activities carried out by the One-Stop partners.
(d) While each local area must have at least one comprehensive center (and may have additional comprehensive centers), WIA section 134(c) allows for arrangements to supplement the center. These arrangements may include:
(1) A network of affiliated sites that can provide one or more partners' programs, services and activities at each site;
(2) A network of One-Stop partners through which each partner provides services that are linked, physically or technologically, to an affiliated site that assures individuals are provided information on the availability of core services in the local area; and
(3) Specialized centers that address specific needs, such as those of dislocated workers.
(e) The design of the local area's One-Stop delivery system, including the number of comprehensive centers and the supplementary arrangements, must be described in the local plan and be consistent with the Memorandum of Understanding executed with the One-Stop partners.

# Subpart B—One-Stop Partners and the Responsibilities of Partners
§ 662.200
Who are the required One-Stop partners?
(a) WIA section 121(b)(1) identifies the entities that are required partners in the local One-Stop systems.
(b) The required partners are the entities that are responsible for administering the following programs and activities in the local area:
(1) Programs authorized under title I of WIA, serving:
(i) Adults;
(ii) Dislocated workers;
(iii) Youth;
(iv) Job Corps;
(v) Native American programs;
(vi) Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs; and
(vii) Veterans' workforce programs; (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(i));
(2) Programs authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(ii));
(3) Adult education and literacy activities authorized under title II of WIA; (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(iii));
(4) Programs authorized under parts A and B of title I of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(iv));
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Senior community service employment activities authorized under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056
et seq.
); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(vi));
(7) Postsecondary vocational education activities under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(vii));
(8) Trade Adjustment Assistance and NAFTA Transitional Adjustment Assistance activities authorized under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2271
et seq.
) and Section 123(c)(2) of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 2002 (Pub. L. 107-210), respectively; see (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(viii));
(9) Activities authorized under chapter 41 of title 38, U.S.C. (local veterans' employment representatives and disabled veterans outreach programs); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(ix));
(10) Employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant (42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.
); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(x));
(11) Employment and training activities carried out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development; (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(xi)); and
(12) Programs authorized under State unemployment compensation laws (in accordance with applicable Federal law); (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(xii).)
[65 FR 49398, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 35523, June 21, 2006]
§ 662.210
What other entities may serve as One-Stop partners?
(a) WIA provides that other entities that carry out a human resource program, including Federal, State, or local programs and programs in the private sector may serve as additional partners in the One-Stop system if the Local Board and chief elected official(s) approve the entity's participation.
(b) Additional partners may include:
(1) TANF programs authorized under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
);
(2) Employment and training programs authorized under section 6(d)(4) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4));
(3) Work programs authorized under section 6(o) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(o));
(4) Programs authorized under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501
et seq.
); and
(5) Other appropriate Federal, State or local programs, including programs related to transportation and housing and programs in the private sector. (WIA sec. 121(b)(2).)
(c) The State may require that one or more of the programs identified in paragraph (b) of this section be included as a partner in all of the local One-Stop delivery systems in the State.
§ 662.220
What entity serves as the One-Stop partner for a particular program in the local area?
(a) The “entity” that carries out the program and activities listed in §§ 662.200 and 662.210 and, therefore, serves as the One-Stop partner is the grant recipient, administrative entity or organization responsible for administering the funds of the specified program in the local area. The term “entity” does not include the service providers that contract with or are subrecipients of the local administrative entity. For programs that do not include local administrative entities, the responsible State Agency should be the partner. Specific entities for particular programs are identified in paragraph (b) of this section. If a program or activity listed in § 662.200 is not carried out in a local area, the requirements relating to a required One-Stop partner are not applicable to such program or activity in that local One-Stop system.
(b)(1) For title II of WIA, the entity that carries out the program for the
purposes of paragraph (a) is the State eligible entity. The State eligible entity may designate an eligible provider, or a consortium of eligible providers, as the “entity” for this purpose;
(2) For title I, Part A, of the Rehabilitation Act, the entity that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the designated State agency or designated unit specified under section 101(a)(2) that is primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation, or vocational and other rehabilitation, of individuals with disabilities; and
(3) Under WIA, the national programs, including Job Corps, the WIA Indian and Native American program, the Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers program, and the Veterans' Workforce Investment program, are required One-Stop partners. Local Boards must include them in the One-Stop delivery system where they are present in their local area. In local areas where the national programs are not present, States and Local Boards should take steps to ensure that customer groups served by these programs have access to services through the One-Stop delivery system.
§ 662.230
What are the responsibilities of the required One-Stop partners?
All required partners must:
(a) Make available to participants through the One-Stop delivery system the core services that are applicable to the partner's programs; (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(A).)
(b) Use a portion of funds made available to the partner's program, to the extent not inconsistent with the Federal law authorizing the partner's program, to:
(1) Create and maintain the One-Stop delivery system; and
(2) Provide core services; (WIA sec. 134(d)(1)(B).)
(c) Enter into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Local Board relating to the operation of the One-Stop system that meets the requirements of § 662.300, including a description of services, how the cost of the identified services and operating costs of the system will be funded, and methods for referrals (WIA sec. 121(c));
(d) Participate in the operation of the One-Stop system consistent with the terms of the MOU and requirements of authorizing laws; (WIA sec. 121(b)(1)(B).) and
(e) Provide representation on the Local Workforce Investment Board. (WIA sec. 117(b)(2)(A)(vi).)
§ 662.240
What are a program's applicable core services?
(a) The core services applicable to any One-Stop partner program are those services described in paragraph (b) of this section, that are authorized and provided under the partner's program.
(b) The core services identified in section 134(d)(2) of the WIA are:
(1) Determinations of whether the individuals are eligible to receive assistance under subtitle B of title I of WIA;
(2) Outreach, intake (which may include worker profiling), and orientation to the information and other services available through the One-Stop delivery system;
(3) Initial assessment of skill levels, aptitudes, abilities, and supportive service needs;
(4) Job search and placement assistance, and where appropriate, career counseling;
(5) Provision of employment statistics information, including the provision of accurate information relating to local, regional, and national labor market areas, including—
(i) Job vacancy listings in such labor market areas;
(ii) Information on job skills necessary to obtain the listed jobs; and
(iii) Information relating to local occupations in demand and the earnings and skill requirements for such occupations;
(6) Provision of program performance information and program cost information on:
(i) Eligible providers of training services described in WIA section 122;
(ii) Eligible providers of youth activities described in WIA section 123;
(iii) Providers of adult education described in title II;
(iv) Providers of postsecondary vocational education activities and vocational education activities available to
school dropouts under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
); and
(v) Providers of vocational rehabilitation program activities described in title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
);
(7) Provision of information on how the local area is performing on the local performance measures and any additional performance information with respect to the One-Stop delivery system in the local area;
(8) Provision of accurate information relating to the availability of supportive services, including, at a minimum, child care and transportation, available in the local area, and referral to such services, as appropriate;
(9) Provision of information regarding filing claims for unemployment compensation;
(10) Assistance in establishing eligibility for programs of financial aid assistance for training and education programs that are not funded under this Act and are available in the local area; and
(11) Followup services, including counseling regarding the workplace, for participants in workforce investment activities authorized under subtitle (B) of title I of WIA who are placed in unsubsidized employment, for not less than 12 months after the first day of the employment, as appropriate.
[65 FR 49398, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 35523, June 21, 2006]
§ 662.250
Where and to what extent must required One-Stop partners make core services available?
(a) At a minimum, the core services that are applicable to the program of the partner under § 662.220, and that are in addition to the basic labor exchange services traditionally provided in the local area under the Wagner-Peyser program, must be made available at the comprehensive One-Stop center. These services must be made available to individuals attributable to the partner's program who seek assistance at the center. The adult and dislocated worker program partners are required to make all of the core services listed in § 662.240 available at the center in accordance with 20 CFR 663.100(b)(1).
(b) The applicable core services may be made available by the provision of appropriate technology at the comprehensive One-Stop center, by co-locating personnel at the center, cross-training of staff, or through a cost reimbursement or other agreement between service providers at the comprehensive One-Stop center and the partner, as described in the MOU.
(c) The responsibility of the partner for the provision of core services must be proportionate to the use of the services at the comprehensive One-Stop center by the individuals attributable to the partner's program. The specific method of determining each partner's proportionate responsibility must be described in the MOU.
(d) For purposes of this part, individuals attributable to the partner's program may include individuals who are referred through the comprehensive One-Stop center and enrolled in the partner's program after the receipt of core services, who have been enrolled in the partner's program prior to receipt of the applicable core services at the center, who meet the eligibility criteria for the partner's program and who receive an applicable core service, or who meet an alternative definition described in the MOU.
(e) Under the MOU, the provision of applicable core services at the center by the One-Stop partner may be supplemented by the provision of such services through the networks of affiliated sites and networks of One-Stop partners described in WIA section 134(c)(2).
§ 662.260
What services, in addition to the applicable core services, are to be provided by One-Stop partners through the One-Stop delivery system?
In addition to the provision of core services, One-Stop partners must provide access to the other activities and programs carried out under the partner's authorizing laws. The access to these services must be described in the local MOU. 20 CFR part 663 describes the specific requirements relating to the provision of core, intensive, and training services through the One-Stop system that apply to the adult and the dislocated worker programs authorized
under title I of WIA. Additional requirements apply to the provision of all labor exchange services under the Wagner-Peyser Act. (WIA sec. 134(c)(1)(D).)
§ 662.270
How are the costs of providing services through the One-Stop delivery system and the operating costs of the system to be funded?
The MOU must describe the particular funding arrangements for services and operating costs of the One-Stop delivery system. Each partner must contribute a fair share of the operating costs of the One-Stop delivery system proportionate to the use of the system by individuals attributable to the partner's program. There are a number of methods, consistent with the equirements of the relevant OMB circulars, that may be used for allocating costs among the partners. Some of these methodologies include allocations based on direct charges, cost pooling, indirect cost rates and activity-based cost allocation plans. Additional guidance relating to cost allocation methods may be issued by the Department in consultation with the other appropriate Federal agencies.
§ 662.280
Does title I require One-Stop partners to use their funds for individuals who are not eligible for the partner's program or for services that are not authorized under the partner's program?
No, the requirements of the partner's program continue to apply. The Act intends to create a seamless service delivery system for individuals seeking workforce development services by linking the One-Stop partners in the One-Stop delivery system. While the overall effect is to provide universal access to core services, the resources of each partner may only be used to provide services that are authorized and provided under the partner's program to individuals who are eligible under such program. (WIA sec. 121(b)(1).)

# Subpart C—Memorandum of Understanding for the One-Stop Delivery System
§ 662.300
What is the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)?
(a) The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is an agreement developed and executed between the Local Board, with the agreement of the chief elected official, and the One-Stop partners relating to the operation of the One-Stop delivery system in the local area.
(b) The MOU must contain the provisions required by WIA section 121(c)(2). These provisions cover services to be provided through the One-Stop delivery system; the funding of the services and operating costs of the system; and methods for referring individuals between the One-Stop operators and partners. The MOU's provisions also must determine the duration and procedures for amending the MOU, and may contain any other provisions that are consistent with WIA title I and the WIA regulations agreed to by the parties. (WIA sec. 121(c).)
§ 662.310
Is there a single MOU for the local area or are there to be separate MOU's between the Local Board and each partner?
(a) A single “umbrella” MOU may be developed that addresses the issues relating to the local One-Stop delivery system for the Local Board, chief elected official and all partners, or the Local Board, chief elected official and the partners may decide to enter into separate agreements between the Local Board (with the agreement of the chief elected official) and one or more partners. Under either approach, the requirements described in this subpart apply. Since funds are generally appropriated annually, financial agreements may be negotiated with each partner annually to clarify funding of services and operating costs of the system under the MOU.
(b) WIA emphasizes full and effective partnerships between Local Boards, chief elected officials and One-Stop partners. Local Boards and partners
must enter into good-faith negotiations. Local Boards, chief elected officials and partners may request assistance from a State agency responsible for administering the partner program, the Governor, State Board, or other appropriate parties. The State agencies, the State Board, and the Governor may also consult with the appropriate Federal agencies to address impasse situations after exhausting other alternatives. The Local Board and partners must document the negotiations and efforts that have taken place. Any failure to execute an MOU between a Local Board and a required partner must be reported by the Local Board and the required partner to the Governor or State Board, and the State agency responsible for administering the partner's program, and by the Governor or the State Board and the responsible State agency to the Secretary of Labor and to the head of any other Federal agency with responsibility for oversight of a partner's program. (WIA sec. 121(c).)
(c) If an impasse has not been resolved through the alternatives available under this section any partner that fails to execute an MOU may not be permitted to serve on the Local Board. In addition, any local area in which a Local Board has failed to execute an MOU with all of the required partners is not eligible for State incentive grants awarded on the basis of local coordination of activities under 20 CFR 665.200(d)(2). These sanctions are in addition to, not in lieu of, any other remedies that may be applicable to the Local Board or to each partner for failure to comply with the statutory requirement.

# Subpart D—One-Stop Operators
§ 662.400
Who is the One-Stop operator?
(a) The One-Stop operator is the entity that performs the role described in paragraph (c) of this section. The types of entities that may be selected to be the One-Stop operator include:
(1) A postsecondary educational institution;
(2) An Employment Service agency established under the Wagner-Peyser Act on behalf of the local office of the agency;
(3) A private, nonprofit organization (including a community-based organization);
(4) A private for-profit entity;
(5) A government agency; and
(6) Another interested organization or entity.
(b) One-Stop operators may be a single entity or a consortium of entities and may operate one or more One-Stop centers. In addition, there may be more than one One-Stop operator in a local area.
(c) The agreement between the Local Board and the One-Stop operator shall specify the operator's role. That role may range between simply coordinating service providers within the center, to being the primary provider of services within the center, to coordinating activities throughout the One-Stop system. (WIA sec. 121(d).)
§ 662.410
How is the One-Stop operator selected?
(a) The Local Board, with the agreement of the chief elected official, must designate and certify One-Stop operators in each local area.
(b) The One-Stop operator is designated or certified:
(1) Through a competitive process,
(2) Under an agreement between the Local Board and a consortium of entities that includes at least three or more of the required One-Stop partners.identified at § 662.200, or
(3) Under the conditions described in §§ 662.420 or 662.430. (WIA sec.121(d), 121(e) and 117(f)(2))
(c) The designation or certification of the One-Stop operator must be carried out in accordance with the “sunshine provision” at 20 CFR 661.307.
§ 662.420
Under what limited conditions may the Local Board be designated or certified as the One-Stop operator?
(a) The Local Board may be designated or certified as the One-Stop operator only with the agreement of the chief elected official and the Governor.
(b) The designation or certification must be reviewed whenever the biennial certification of the Local Board is made under 20 CFR 663.300(a). (WIA sec. 117(f)(2).)
§ 662.430
Under what conditions may One-Stop operators designated to operate in a One-Stop delivery system established prior to the enactment of WIA be designated to continue as a One-Stop operator under WIA without meeting the requirements of § 662.410(b)?
Under WIA section 121(e), the Local Board, the chief elected official and the Governor may agree to certify an entity that has been serving as a One-Stop operator in a One-Stop delivery system established prior to the enactment of WIA (August 7, 1998) to continue to serve as a One-Stop operator without meeting the requirements for designation under § 662.410(b) if the local One-Stop delivery system is modified, as necessary, to meet the other requirements of this part, including the requirements relating to the inclusion of One-Stop partners, the execution of the MOU, and the provision of services.(WIA sec. 121(e).)
Pt. 663

# PART 663—ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—Delivery of Adult and Dislocated Worker Services Through the One-Stop Delivery System
Sec.
663.100
What is the role of the adult and dislocated worker programs in the One-Stop delivery system?
663.105
When must adults and dislocated workers be registered?
663.110
What are the eligibility criteria for core services for adults in the adult and dislocated worker programs?
663.115
What are the eligibility criteria for core services for dislocated workers in the adult and dislocated worker programs?
663.120
Are displaced homemakers eligible for dislocated worker activities under WIA?
663.145
What services are WIA title I adult and dislocated workers formula funds used to provide?
663.150
What core services must be provided to adults and dislocated workers?
663.155
How are core services delivered?
663.160
Are there particular core services an individual must receive before receiving intensive services under WIA section 134(d)(3)?
663.165
How long must an individual be in core services in order to be eligible for intensive services?

# Subpart B—Intensive Services
663.200
What are intensive services for adults and dislocated workers?
663.210
How are intensive services delivered?
663.220
Who may receive intensive services?
663.230
What criteria must be used to determine whether an employed worker needs intensive services to obtain or retain employment leading to “self-sufficiency”?
663.240
Are there particular intensive services an individual must receive before receiving training services under WIA section 134(d)(4)(A)(i)?
663.245
What is the individual employment plan?
663.250
How long must an individual participant be in intensive services to be eligible for training services?

# Subpart C—Training Services
663.300
What are training services for adults and dislocated workers?
663.310
Who may receive training services?
663.320
What are the requirements for coordination of WIA training funds and other grant assistance?

# Subpart D—Individual Training Accounts
663.400
How are training services provided?
663.410
What is an Individual Training Account (ITA)?
663.420
Can the duration and amount of ITA's be limited?
663.430
Under what circumstances may mechanisms other than ITA's be used to provide training services?
663.440
What are the requirements for consumer choice?

# Subpart E—Eligible Training Providers
663.500
What is the purpose of this subpart?
663.505
What are eligible providers of training services?
663.508
What is a “program of training services”?
663.510
Who is responsible for managing the eligible provider process?
663.515
What is the process for initial determination of provider eligibility?
663.530
Is there a time limit on the period of initial eligibility for training providers?
663.535
What is the process for determining the subsequent eligibility of a provider?
663.540
What kind of performance and cost information is required for determinations of subsequent eligibility?
663.550
How is eligible provider information developed and maintained?
663.555
How is the State list disseminated?
663.565
May an eligible training provider lose its eligibility?
663.570
What is the consumer reports system?
663.575
In what ways can a Local Board supplement the information available from the State list?
663.585
May individuals choose training providers located outside of the local area?
663.590
May a community-based organization (CBO) be included on an eligible provider list?
663.595
What requirements apply to providers of OJT and customized training?

# Subpart F—Priority and Special Populations
663.600
What priority must be given to low-income adults and public assistance recipients served with adult funds under title I?
663.610
Does the statutory priority for use of adult funds also apply to dislocated worker funds?
663.620
How do the Welfare-to-Work program and the TANF program relate to the One-Stop delivery system?
663.630
How does a displaced homemaker qualify for services under title I?
663.640
May an individual with a disability whose family does not meet income eligibility criteria under the Act be eligible for priority as a low-income adult?

# Subpart G—On-the-Job Training (OJT) and Customized Training
663.700
What are the requirements for on-the-job training (OJT)?
663.705
What are the requirements for OJT contracts for employed workers?
663.710
What conditions govern OJT payments to employers?
663.715
What is customized training?
663.720
What are the requirements for customized training for employed workers?
663.730
May funds provided to employers for OJT of customized training be used to assist, promote, or deter union organizing?

# Subpart H—Supportive Services
663.800
What are supportive services for adults and dislocated workers?
663.805
When may supportive services be provided to participants?
663.810
Are there limits on the amounts or duration of funds for supportive services?
663.815
What are needs-related payments?
663.820
What are the eligibility requirements for adults to receive needs-related payments?
663.825
What are the eligibility requirements for dislocated workers to receive needs-related payments?
663.830
May needs-related payments be paid while a participant is waiting to start training classes?
663.840
How is the level of needs-related payments determined?

# Authority:
Section 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49402, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Delivery of Adult and Dislocated Worker Services Through the One-Stop Delivery System
§ 663.100
What is the role of the adult and dislocated worker programs in the One-Stop delivery system?
(a) The One-Stop system is the basic delivery system for adult and dislocated worker services. Through this system, adults and dislocated workers can access a continuum of services. The services are organized into three levels: core, intensive, and training.
(b) The chief elected official or his/her designee(s), as the local grant recipient(s) for the adult and dislocated worker programs, is a required One-Stop partner and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in 20 CFR part 662. Consistent with those provisions:
(1) Core services for adults and dislocated workers must be made available in at least one comprehensive One-Stop center in each local workforce investment area. Services may also be available elsewhere, either at affiliated sites or at specialized centers. For example, specialized centers may be established to serve workers being dislocated from a particular employer or industry, or to serve residents of public housing.
(2) The One-Stop centers also make intensive services available to adults and dislocated workers, as needed, either by the One-Stop operator directly or through contracts with service providers that are approved by the Local Board.
(3) Through the One-Stop system, adults and dislocated workers needing training are provided Individual Training Accounts (ITA's) and access to lists of eligible providers and programs of training. These lists contain quality consumer information, including cost and performance information for each of the providers' programs, so that participants can make informed choices
on where to use their ITA's. (ITA's are more fully discussed in subpart D of this part.)
§ 663.105
When must adults and dislocated workers be registered?
(a) Registration is the process for collecting information to support a determination of eligibility. This information may be collected through methods that include electronic data transfer, personal interview, or an individual's application.
(b) Adults and dislocated workers who receive services funded under title I other than self-service or informational activities must be registered and determined eligible.
(c) EO data must be collected on every individual who is interested in being considered for WIA title I financially assisted aid, benefits, services, or training by a recipient, and who has signified that interest by submitting personal information in response to a request from the recipient.
§ 663.110
What are the eligibility criteria for core services for adults in the adult and dislocated worker programs?
To be eligible to receive core services as an adult in the adult and dislocated worker programs, an individual must be 18 years of age or older. To be eligible for the dislocated worker programs, an eligible adult must meet the criteria of § 663.115. Eligibility criteria for intensive and training services are found at §§ 663.220 and 663.310.
§ 663.115
What are the eligibility criteria for core services for dislocated workers in the adult and dislocated worker programs?
(a) To be eligible to receive core services as a dislocated worker in the adult and dislocated worker programs, an individual must meet the definition of “dislocated worker” at WIA section 101(9). Eligibility criteria for intensive and training services are found at §§ 663.220 and 663.310.
(b) Governors and Local Boards may establish policies and procedures for One-Stop operators to use in determining an individual's eligibility as a dislocated worker, consistent with the definition at WIA section 101(9). These policies and procedures may address such conditions as:
(1) What constitutes a “general announcement” of plant closing under WIA section 101(9)(B)(ii) or (iii); and
(2) What constitutes “unemployed as a result of general economic conditions in the community in which the individual resides or because of natural disasters” for determining the eligibility of self-employed individuals, including family members and farm or ranch hands, under WIA section 101(9)(C).
§ 663.120
Are displaced homemakers eligible for dislocated worker activities under WIA?
(a) Yes, there are two significant differences from the eligibility requirements under the Job Training Partnership Act.
(b) Under the dislocated worker program in JTPA, displaced homemakers are defined as “additional dislocated workers” and are only eligible to receive services if the Governor determines that providing such services would not adversely affect the delivery of services to the other eligible dislocated workers. Under WIA section 101(9), displaced homemakers who meet the definition at WIA section 101(10) are eligible dislocated workers without any additional determination.
(c) The definition of displaced homemaker under JTPA included individuals who had been dependent upon public assistance under Aid for Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) as well as those who had been dependent on the income of another family member. The definition in WIA section 101(10) includes only those individuals who were dependent on a family member's income. Those individuals who have been dependent on public assistance may be served in the adult program.
§ 663.145
What services are WIA title I adult and dislocated workers formula funds used to provide?
(a) WIA title I formula funds allocated to local areas for adults and dislocated workers must be used to provide core, intensive and training services through the One-Stop delivery system. Local Boards determine the most appropriate mix of these services, but
all three types must be available for both adults and dislocated workers. There are different eligibility criteria for each of these types of services, which are described at §§ 663.110, 663.115, 663.220 and 663.310.
(b) WIA title I funds may also be used to provide the other services described in WIA section 134(e):
(1) Discretionary One-Stop delivery activities, including:
(i) Customized screening and referral of qualified participants in training services to employment; and
(ii) Customized employment-related services to employers on a fee-for-service basis that are in addition to labor exchange services available to employers under the Wagner-Peyser Act.
(2) Supportive services, including needs-related payments, as described in subpart H of this part.
§ 663.150
What core services must be provided to adults and dislocated workers?
(a) At a minimum, all of the core services described in WIA section 134(d)(2) and 20 CFR 662.240 must be provided in each local area through the One-Stop delivery system.
(b) Followup services must be made available, as appropriate, for a minimum of 12 months following the first day of employment, to registered participants who are placed in unsubsidized employment.
§ 663.155
How are core services delivered?
Core services must be provided through the One-Stop delivery system. Core services may be provided directly by the One-Stop operator or through contracts with service providers that are approved by the Local Board. The Local Board may only be a provider of core services when approved by the chief elected official and the Governor in accordance with the requirements of WIA section 117(f)(2) and 20 CFR 661.310.
§ 663.160
Are there particular core services an individual must receive before receiving intensive services under WIA section 134(d)(3)?
(a) Yes, at a minimum, an individual must receive at least one core service, such as an initial assessment or job search and placement assistance, before receiving intensive services. The initial assessment provides preliminary information about the individual's skill levels, aptitudes, interests, and supportive services needs. The job search and placement assistance helps the individual determine whether he or she is unable to obtain employment, and thus requires more intensive services to obtain employment. The decision on which core services to provide, and the timing of their delivery, may be made on a case-by-case basis at the local level depending upon the needs of the participant.
(b) A determination of the need for intensive services under § 663.220, as established by the initial assessment or the individual's inability to obtain employment through the core services provided, must be contained in the participant's case file.
§ 663.165
How long must an individual be in core services in order to be eligible for intensive services?
There is no Federally-required minimum time period for participation in core services before receiving intensive services. (WIA sec. 134(d)(3).)

# Subpart B—Intensive Services
§ 663.200
What are intensive services for adults and dislocated workers?
(a) Intensive services are listed in WIA section 134(d)(3)(C). The list in the Act is not all-inclusive and other intensive services, such as out-of-area job search assistance, literacy activities related to basic workforce readiness, relocation assistance, internships, and work experience may be provided, based on an assessment or individual employment plan.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, work experience is a planned, structured learning experience that takes place in a workplace for a limited period of time. Work experience may be paid or unpaid, as appropriate. A work experience workplace may be in the private for profit sector, the non-profit sector, or the public sector. Labor standards apply in any work experience where an employee/employer relationship, as defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act, exists.
§ 663.210
How are intensive services delivered?
(a) Intensive services must be provided through the One-Stop delivery system, including specialized One-Stop centers. Intensive services may be provided directly by the One-Stop operator or through contracts with service providers, which may include contracts with public, private for-profit, and private non-profit service providers (including specialized service providers), that are approved by the Local Board. (WIA secs. 117(d)(2)(D) and 134(d)(3)(B).)
(b) The Local Board may only be a provider of intensive services when approved by the chief elected official and the Governor in accordance with WIA section 117(f)(2) and 20 CFR 661.310.
§ 663.220
Who may receive intensive services?
There are two categories of adults and dislocated workers who may receive intensive services:
(a) Adults and dislocated workers who are unemployed, have received at least one core service and are unable to obtain employment through core services, and are determined by a One-Stop operator to be in need of more intensive services to obtain employment; and
(b) Adults and dislocated workers who are employed, have received at least one core service, and are determined by a One-Stop operator to be in need of intensive services to obtain or retain employment that leads to self-sufficiency, as described in § 663.230.
§ 663.230
What criteria must be used to determine whether an employed worker needs intensive services to obtain or retain employment leading to “self-sufficiency”?
State Boards or Local Boards must set the criteria for determining whether employment leads to self-sufficiency. At a minimum, such criteria must provide that self-sufficiency means employment that pays at least the lower living standard income level, as defined in WIA section 101(24). Self-sufficiency for a dislocated worker may be defined in relation to a percentage of the layoff wage. The special needs of individuals with disabilities or other barriers to employment should be taken into account when setting criteria to determine self-sufficiency.
§ 663.240
Are there particular intensive services an individual must receive before receiving training services under WIA section 134(d)(4)(A)(i)?
(a) Yes, at a minimum, an individual must receive at least one intensive service, such as development of an individual employment plan with a case manager or individual counseling and career planning, before the individual may receive training services.
(b) The case file must contain a determination of need for training services under § 663.310, as identified in the individual employment plan, comprehensive assessment, or through any other intensive service received.
§ 663.245
What is the individual employment plan?
The individual employment plan is an ongoing strategy jointly developed by the participant and the case manager that identifies the participant's employment goals, the appropriate achievement objectives, and the appropriate combination of services for the participant to achieve the employment goals.
§ 663.250
How long must an individual participant be in intensive services to be eligible for training services?
There is no Federally-required minimum time period for participation in intensive services before receiving training services. The period of time an individual spends in intensive services should be sufficient to prepare the individual for training or employment. (WIA sec. 134(d)(4)(A)(i).)

# Subpart C—Training Services
§ 663.300
What are training services for adults and dislocated workers?
Training services are listed in WIA section 134(d)(4)(D). The list in the Act is not all-inclusive and additional training services may be provided.
§ 663.310
Who may receive training services?
Training services may be made available to employed and unemployed adults and dislocated workers who:
(a) Have met the eligibility requirements for intensive services, have received at least one intensive service under § 663.240, and have been determined to be unable to obtain or retain employment through such services;
(b) After an interview, evaluation, or assessment, and case management, have been determined by a One-Stop operator or One-Stop partner, to be in need of training services and to have the skills and qualifications to successfully complete the selected training program;
(c) Select a program of training services that is directly linked to the employment opportunities either in the local area or in another area to which the individual is willing to relocate;
(d) Are unable to obtain grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of such training, including such sources as Welfare-to-Work, State-funded training funds, Trade Adjustment Assistance and Federal Pell Grants established under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, or require WIA assistance in addition to other sources of grant assistance, including Federal Pell Grants (provisions relating to fund coordination are found at § 663.320 and WIA section 134(d)(4)(B)); and
(e) For individuals whose services are provided through the adult funding stream, are determined eligible in accordance with the State and local priority system, if any, in effect for adults under WIA section 134(d)(4)(E) and § 663.600. (WIA sec. 134(d)(4)(A).)
§ 663.320
What are the requirements for coordination of WIA training funds and other grant assistance?
(a) WIA funding for training is limited to participants who:
(1) Are unable to obtain grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of their training; or
(2) Require assistance beyond that available under grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of such training. Program operators and training providers must coordinate funds available to pay for training as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Program operators must coordinate training funds available and make funding arrangements with One-Stop partners and other entities to apply the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. Training providers must consider the availability of other sources of grants to pay for training costs such as Welfare-to-Work, State-funded training funds, and Federal Pell Grants, so that WIA funds supplement other sources of training grants.
(c) A WIA participant may enroll in WIA-funded training while his/her application for a Pell Grant is pending as long as the One-Stop operator has made arrangements with the training provider and the WIA participant regarding allocation of the Pell Grant, if it is subsequently awarded. In that case, the training provider must reimburse the One-Stop operator the WIA funds used to underwrite the training for the amount the Pell Grant covers. Reimbursement is not required from the portion of Pell Grant assistance disbursed to the WIA participant for education-related expenses. (WIA sec. 134(d)(4)(B).)

# Subpart D—Individual Training Accounts
§ 663.400
How are training services provided?
Except under the three conditions described in WIA section 134(d)(4)(G)(ii) and § 663.430(a), the Individual Training Account (ITA) is established for eligible individuals to finance training services. Local Boards may only provide training services under § 663.430 if they receive a waiver from the Governor and meet the requirements of 20 CFR 661.310 and WIA section 117(f)(1). (WIA sec. 134(d)(4)(G).)
§ 663.410
What is an Individual Training Account (ITA)?
The ITA is established on behalf of a participant. WIA title I adult and dislocated workers purchase training services from eligible providers they select in consultation with the case manager. Payments from ITA's may be made in a variety of ways, including
the electronic transfer of funds through financial institutions, vouchers, or other appropriate methods. Payments may also be made incrementally; through payment of a portion of the costs at different points in the training course. (WIA sec. 134(d)(4)(G).)
§ 663.420
Can the duration and amount of ITA's be limited?
(a) Yes, the State or Local Board may impose limits on ITA's, such as limitations on the dollar amount and/or duration.
(b) Limits to ITA's may be established in different ways:
(1) There may be a limit for an individual participant that is based on the needs identified in the individual employment plan; or
(2) There may be a policy decision by the State Board or Local Board to establish a range of amounts and/or a maximum amount applicable to all ITA's.
(c) Limitations established by State or Local Board policies must be described in the State or Local Plan, respectively, but should not be implemented in a manner that undermines the Act's requirement that training services are provided in a manner that maximizes customer choice in the selection of an eligible training provider. ITA limitations may provide for exceptions to the limitations in individual cases.
(d) An individual may select training that costs more than the maximum amount available for ITAs under a State or local policy when other sources of funds are available to supplement the ITA. These other sources may include: Pell Grants; scholarships; severance pay; and other sources.
§ 663.430
Under what circumstances may mechanisms other than ITA's be used to provide training services?
(a) Contracts for services may be used instead of ITA's only when one of the following three exceptions applies:
(1) When the services provided are on-the-job training (OJT) or customized training;
(2) When the Local Board determines that there are an insufficient number of eligible providers in the local area to accomplish the purpose of a system of ITA's. The Local Plan must describe the process to be used in selecting the providers under a contract for services. This process must include a public comment period for interested providers of at least 30 days;
(3) When the Local Board determines that there is a training services program of demonstrated effectiveness offered in the area by a community-based organization (CBO) or another private organization to serve special participant populations that face multiple barriers to employment, as described in paragraph (b) in this section. The Local Board must develop criteria to be used in determining demonstrated effectiveness, particularly as it applies to the special participant population to be served. The criteria may include:
(i) Financial stability of the organization;
(ii) Demonstrated performance in the delivery of services to hard to serve participant populations through such means as program completion rate; attainment of the skills, certificates or degrees the program is designed to provide; placement after training in unsubsidized employment; and retention in employment; and
(iii) How the specific program relates to the workforce investment needs identified in the local plan.
(b) Under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, special participant populations that face multiple barriers to employment are populations of low-income individuals that are included in one or more of the following categories:
(1) Individuals with substantial language or cultural barriers;
(2) Offenders;
(3) Homeless individuals; and
(4) Other hard-to-serve populations as defined by the Governor.
§ 663.440
What are the requirements for consumer choice?
(a) Training services, whether under ITA's or under contract, must be provided in a manner that maximizes informed consumer choice in selecting an eligible provider.
(b) Each Local Board, through the One-Stop center, must make available to customers the State list of eligible providers required in WIA section
122(e). The list includes a description of the programs through which the providers may offer the training services, the information identifying eligible providers of on-the-job training and customized training required under WIA section 122(h) (where applicable), and the performance and cost information about eligible providers of training services described in WIA sections 122 (e) and (h).
(c) An individual who has been determined eligible for training services under § 663.310 may select a provider described in paragraph (b) of this section after consultation with a case manager. Unless the program has exhausted training funds for the program year, the operator must refer the individual to the selected provider, and establish an ITA for the individual to pay for training. For purposes of this paragraph, a referral may be carried out by providing a voucher or certificate to the individual to obtain the training.
(d) The cost of referral of an individual with an ITA to a training provider is paid by the applicable adult or dislocated worker program under title I of WIA.

# Subpart E—Eligible Training Providers
§ 663.500
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The workforce investment system established under WIA emphasizes informed customer choice, system performance, and continuous improvement. The eligible provider process is part of the strategy for achieving these goals. Local Boards, in partnership with the State, identify training providers and programs whose performance qualifies them to receive WIA funds to train adults and dislocated workers. In order to maximize customer choice and assure that all significant population groups are served, States and local areas should administer the eligible provider process in a manner to assure that significant numbers of competent providers, offering a wide variety of training programs and occupational choices, are available to customers. After receiving core and intensive services and in consultation with case managers, eligible participants who need training use the list of these eligible providers to make an informed choice. The ability of providers to successfully perform, the procedures State and Local Boards use to establish eligibility, and the degree to which information, including performance information, on those providers is made available to customers eligible for training services, are key factors affecting the successful implementation of the Statewide workforce investment system. This subpart describes the process for determining eligible training providers.
§ 663.505
What are eligible providers of training services?
(a) Eligible providers of training services are described in WIA section 122. They are those entities eligible to receive WIA title I-B funds to provide training services to eligible adult and dislocated worker customers.
(b) In order to provide training services under WIA title I-B, a provider must meet the requirements of this subpart and WIA section 122.
(1) These requirements apply to the use of WIA title I adult and dislocated worker funds to provide training:
(i) To individuals using ITA's to access training through the eligible provider list; and
(ii) To individuals for training provided through the exceptions to ITA's described at § 663.430 (a)(2) and (a)(3).
(2) These requirements apply to all organizations providing training to adult and dislocated workers, including:
(i) Postsecondary educational institutions providing a program described in WIA section 122(a)(2)(A)(ii);
(ii) Entities that carry out programs under the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.
);
(iii) Other public or private providers of a program of training services described in WIA section 122(a)(2)(C);
(iv) Local Boards, if they meet the conditions of WIA section 117(f)(1); and
(v) Community-based organizations and other private organizations providing training under § 663.430.
(c) Provider eligibility procedures must be established by the Governor, as required by this subpart. Different
procedures are described in WIA for determinations of “initial” and “subsequent” eligibility. Because the processes are different, they are discussed separately.
§ 663.508
What is a “program of training services”?
A program of training services is one or more courses or classes, or a structured regimen, that upon successful completion, leads to:
(a) A certificate, an associate degree, baccalaureate degree, or
(b) The skills or competencies needed for a specific job or jobs, an occupation, occupational group, or generally, for many types of jobs or occupations, as recognized by employers and determined prior to training.
§ 663.510
Who is responsible for managing the eligible provider process?
(a) The State and the Local Boards each have responsibilities for managing the eligible provider process.
(b) The Governor must establish eligibility criteria for certain providers to become initially eligible and must set minimum levels of performance for all providers to remain subsequently eligible.
(c) The Governor must designate a State agency (called the “designated State agency”) to assist in carrying out WIA section 122. The designated State agency is responsible for:
(1) Developing and maintaining the State list of eligible providers and programs, which is comprised of lists submitted by Local Boards;
(2) Determining if programs meet performance levels, including verifying the accuracy of the information on the State list in consultation with the Local Boards, removing programs that do not meet program performance levels, and taking appropriate enforcement actions, against providers in the case of the intentional provision of inaccurate information, as described in WIA section 122(f)(1), and in the case of a substantial violation of the requirements of WIA, as described in WIA section 122(f)(2);
(3) Disseminating the State list, accompanied by performance and cost information relating to each provider, to One-Stop operators throughout the State.
(d) The Local Board must:
(1) Accept applications for initial eligibility from certain postsecondary institutions and entities providing apprenticeship training;
(2) Carry out procedures prescribed by the Governor to assist in determining the initial eligibility of other providers;
(3) Carry out procedures prescribed by the Governor to assist in determining the subsequent eligibility of all providers;
(4) Compile a local list of eligible providers, collect the performance and cost information and any other required information relating to providers;
(5) Submit the local list and information to the designated State agency;
(6) Ensure the dissemination and appropriate use of the State list through the local One-Stop system;
(7) Consult with the designated State agency in cases where termination of an eligible provider is contemplated because inaccurate information has been provided; and
(8) Work with the designated State agency in cases where the termination of an eligible provider is contemplated because of violations of the Act.
(e) The Local Board may:
(1) Make recommendations to the Governor on the procedures to be used in determining initial eligibility of certain providers;
(2) Increase the levels of performance required by the State for local providers to maintain subsequent eligibility;
(3) Require additional verifiable program-specific information from local providers to maintain subsequent eligibility.
§ 663.515
What is the process for initial determination of provider eligibility?
(a) To be eligible to receive adult or dislocated worker training funds under title I of WIA, all providers must submit applications to the Local Boards in the areas in which they wish to provide services. The application must describe each program of training services to be offered.
(b) For programs eligible under title IV of the Higher Education Act and apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act (NAA), and the providers or such programs, Local Boards determine the procedures to use in making an application. The procedures established by the Local Board must specify the timing, manner, and contents of the required application.
(c) For programs not eligible under title IV of the HEA or registered under the NAA, and for providers not eligible under title IV of the HEA or carrying out apprenticeship programs under NAA:
(1) The Governor must develop a procedure for use by Local Boards for determining the eligibility of other providers, after
(i) Soliciting and taking into consideration recommendations from Local Boards and providers of training services within the State;
(ii) Providing an opportunity for interested members of the public, including representatives of business and labor organizations, to submit comments on the procedure; and
(iii) Designating a specific time period for soliciting and considering the recommendations of Local Boards and provider, and for providing an opportunity for public comment.
(2) The procedure must be described in the State Plan.
(3)(i) The procedure must require that the provider must submit an application to the Local Board at such time and in such manner as may be required, which contains a description of the program of training services;
(ii) If the provider provides a program of training services on the date of application, the procedure must require that the application include an appropriate portion of the performance information and program cost information described in § 663.540, and that the program meet appropriate levels of performance;
(iii) If the provider does not provide a program of training services on that date, the procedure must require that the provider meet appropriate requirements specified in the procedure. (WIA sec. 122(b)(2)(D).)
(d) The Local Board must include providers that meet the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section on a local list and submit the list to the designated State agency. The State agency has 30 days to determine that the provider or its programs do not meet the requirements relating to the providers under paragraph (c) of this section. After the agency determines that the provider and its programs meet(s) the criteria for initial eligibility, or 30 days have elapsed, whichever occurs first, the provider and its programs are initially eligible. The programs and providers submitted under paragraph (b) of this section are initially eligible without State agency review. (WIA sec. 122(e).)
§ 663.530
Is there a time limit on the period of initial eligibility for training providers?
Yes, under WIA section 122(c)(5), the Governor must require training providers to submit performance information and meet performance levels annually in order to remain eligible providers. States may require that these performance requirements be met one year from the date that initial eligibility was determined, or may require all eligible providers to submit performance information by the same date each year. If the latter approach is adopted, the Governor may exempt eligible providers whose determination of initial eligibility occurs within six months of the date of submissions. The effect of this requirement is that no training provider may have a period of initial eligibility that exceeds eighteen months. In the limited circumstance when insufficient data is available, initial eligibility may be extended for a period of up to six additional months, if the Governor's procedures provide for such an extension.
§ 663.535
What is the process for determining the subsequent eligibility of a provider?
(a) The Governor must develop a procedure for the Local Board to use in determining the subsequent eligibility of all eligible training providers determined initially eligible under § 663.515 (b) and (c), after:
(1) Soliciting and taking into consideration recommendations from Local Boards and providers of training services within the State;
(2) Providing an opportunity for interested members of the public, including representatives of business and labor organizations, to submit comments on such procedure; and
(3) Designating a specific time period for soliciting and considering the recommendations of Local Boards and providers, and for providing an opportunity for public comment.
(b) The procedure must be described in the State Plan.
(c) The procedure must require that:
(1) Providers annually submit performance and cost information as described at WIA section 122(d)(1) and (2), for each program of training services for which the provider has been determined to be eligible, in a time and manner determined by the Local Board;
(2) Providers and programs annually meet minimum performance levels described at WIA section 122(c)(6), as demonstrated utilizing UI quarterly wage records where appropriate.
(d) The program's performance information must meet the minimum acceptable levels established under paragraph (c)(2) of this section to remain eligible;
(e) Local Boards may require higher levels of performance for local programs than the levels specified in the procedures established by the Governor. (WIA sec.122(c)(5) and (c)(6).)
(f) The State procedure must require Local Boards to take into consideration:
(1) The specific economic, geographic and demographic factors in the local areas in which providers seeking eligibility are located, and
(2) The characteristics of the populations served by programs seeking eligibility, including the demonstrated difficulties in serving these populations, where applicable.
(g) The Local Board retains those programs on the local list that meet the required performance levels and other elements of the State procedures and submits the list, accompanied by the performance and cost information, and any additional required information, to the designated State agency. If the designated State agency determines within 30 days from the receipt of the information that the program does not meet the performance levels established under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the program may be removed from the list. A program retained on the local list and not removed by the designated State agency is considered an eligible program of training services.
§ 663.540
What kind of performance and cost information is required for determinations of subsequent eligibility?
(a) Eligible providers of training services must submit, at least annually, under procedures established by the Governor under § 663.535(c):
(1) Verifiable program-specific performance information, including:
(i) The information described in WIA section 122(d)(1)(A)(i) for all individuals participating in the programs of training services, including individuals who are not receiving assistance under WIA section 134 and individuals who are receiving such assistance; and
(ii) The information described in WIA section 122(d)(1)(A)(ii) relating only to individuals receiving assistance under the WIA adult and dislocated worker program who are participating in the applicable program of training services; and
(2) Information on program costs (such as tuition and fees) for WIA participants in the program.
(b) Governors may require any additional verifiable performance information (such as the information described at WIA section 122(d)(2)) that the Governor determines to be appropriate to obtain subsequent eligibility, including information regarding all participating individuals as well as individuals receiving assistance under the WIA adult and dislocated worker program.
(c) Governors must establish procedures by which providers can demonstrate if the additional information required under paragraph (b) of this section imposes extraordinary costs on providers, or if providers experience extraordinary costs in the collection of
information. If, through these procedures, providers demonstrate that they experience such extraordinary costs:
(1) The Governor or Local Board must provide access to cost-effective methods for the collection of the information; or
(2) The Governor must provide additional resources to assist providers in the collection of the information from funds for Statewide workforce investment activities reserved under WIA sections 128(a) and 133(a)(1).
(d) The Local Board and the designated State agency may accept program-specific performance information consistent with the requirements for eligibility under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 from a provider for purposes of enabling the provider to fulfill the applicable requirements of this section, if the information is substantially similar to the information otherwise required under this section.
§ 663.550
How is eligible provider information developed and maintained?
(a) The designated State agency must maintain a list of all eligible training programs and providers in the State (the “State list”).
(b) The State list is a compilation of the eligible programs and providers identified or retained by local areas and that have not been removed under §§ 663.535(g) and 663.565.
(c) The State list must be accompanied by the performance and cost information contained in the local lists as required by § 663.535(e). (WIA sec. 122(e)(4)(A).)
§ 663.555
How is the State list disseminated?
(a) The designated State agency must disseminate the State list and accompanying performance and cost information to the One-Stop delivery systems within the State.
(b) The State list and information must be updated at least annually.
(c) The State list and accompanying information form the primary basis of the One-Stop consumer reports system that provides for informed customer choice. The list and information must be widely available, through the One-Stop delivery system, to customers seeking information on training outcomes, as well as participants in employment and training activities funded under WIA and other programs.
(1) The State list must be made available to individuals who have been determined eligible for training services under § 663.310.
(2) The State list must also be made available to customers whose training is supported by other One-Stop partners.
§ 663.565
May an eligible training provider lose its eligibility?
(a) Yes. A training provider must deliver results and provide accurate information in order to retain its status as an eligible training provider.
(b) If the provider's programs do not meet the established performance levels, the programs will be removed from the eligible provider list.
(1) A Local Board must determine, during the subsequent eligibility determination process, whether a provider's programs meet performance levels. If the program fails to meet such levels, the program must be removed from the local list. If all of the provider's programs fail to meet such levels, the provider must be removed from the local list.
(2) The designated State agency upon receipt of the performance information accompanying the local list, may remove programs from the State list if the agency determines the program failed to meet the levels of performance prescribed under § 663.535(c). If all of the provider's programs are determined to have failed to meet the levels, the designated State agency may remove the provider from the State list.
(3) Providers determined to have intentionally supplied inaccurate information or to have subsequently violated any provision of title I of WIA or the WIA regulations, including 29 CFR part 37, may be removed from the list in accordance with the enforcement provisions of WIA section 122(f). A provider whose eligibility is terminated under these conditions is liable to repay all adult and dislocated worker training funds it received during the period of noncompliance.
(4) The Governor must establish appeal procedures for providers of training to appeal a denial of eligibility under this subpart according to the requirements of 20 CFR 667.640(b).
§ 663.570
What is the consumer reports system?
The consumer reports system, referred to in WIA as performance information, is the vehicle for informing the customers of the One-Stop delivery system about the performance of training providers and programs in the local area. It is built upon the State list of eligible providers and programs developed through the procedures described in WIA section 122 and this subpart. The consumer reports system must contain the information necessary for an adult or dislocated worker customer to fully understand the options available to him or her in choosing a program of training services. Such program-specific factors may include overall performance, performance for significant customer groups (including wage replacement rates for dislocated workers), performance of specific provider sites, current information on employment and wage trends and projections, and duration of training programs.
§ 663.575
In what ways can a Local Board supplement the information available from the State list?
(a) Local Boards may supplement the information available from the State list by providing customers with additional information to assist in supporting informed customer choice and the achievement of local performance measures (as described in WIA section 136).
(b) This additional information may include:
(1) Information on programs of training services that are linked to occupations in demand in the local area;
(2) Performance and cost information, including program-specific performance and cost information, for the local outlet(s) of multi-site eligible providers; and
(3) Other appropriate information related to the objectives of WIA, which may include the information described in § 663.570.
§ 663.585
May individuals choose training providers located outside of the local area?
Yes, individuals may choose any of the eligible providers and programs on the State list. A State may also establish a reciprocal agreement with another State(s) to permit providers of eligible training programs in each State to accept individual training accounts provided by the other State. (WIA secs. 122(e)(4) and (e)(5).)
§ 663.590
May a community-based organization (CBO) be included on an eligible provider list?
Yes, CBO's may apply and they and their programs may be determined eligible providers of training services, under WIA section 122 and this subpart. As eligible providers, CBO's provide training through ITA's and may also receive contracts for training special participant populations when the requirements of § 663.430 are met.
§ 663.595
What requirements apply to providers of OJT and customized training?
For OJT and customized training providers, One-Stop operators in a local area must collect such performance information as the Governor may require, determine whether the providers meet such performance criteria as the Governor may require, and disseminate a list of providers that have met such criteria, along with the relevant performance information about them, through the One-Stop delivery system. Providers determined to meet the criteria are considered to be identified as eligible providers of training services. These providers are not subject to the other requirements of WIA section 122 or this subpart.

# Subpart F—Priority and Special Populations
§ 663.600
What priority must be given to low-income adults and public assistance recipients served with adult funds under title I?
(a) WIA states, in section 134(d)(4)(E), that in the event that funds allocated to a local area for adult employment
and training activities are limited, priority for intensive and training services funded with title I adult funds must be given to recipients of public assistance and other low-income individuals in the local area.
(b) Since funding is generally limited, States and local areas must establish criteria by which local areas can determine the availability of funds and the process by which any priority will be applied under WIA section 134(d)(2)(E). Such criteria may include the availability of other funds for providing employment and training-related services in the local area, the needs of the specific groups within the local area, and other appropriate factors.
(c) States and local areas must give priority for adult intensive and training services to recipients of public assistance and other low-income individuals, unless the local area has determined that funds are not limited under the criteria established under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The process for determining whether to apply the priority established under paragraph (b) of this section does not necessarily mean that only the recipients of public assistance and other low income individuals may receive WIA adult funded intensive and training services when funds are determined to be limited in a local area. The Local Board and the Governor may establish a process that gives priority for services to the recipients of public assistance and other low income individuals and that also serves other individuals meeting eligibility requirements.
§ 663.610
Does the statutory priority for use of adult funds also apply to dislocated worker funds?
No, the statutory priority applies to adult funds for intensive and training services only. Funds allocated for dislocated workers are not subject to this requirement.
§ 663.620
How do the Welfare-to-Work program and the TANF program relate to the One-Stop delivery system?
(a) The local Welfare-to-Work (WtW) program operator is a required partner in the One-Stop delivery system. 20 CFR part 662 describes the roles of such partners in the One-Stop delivery system and applies to the Welfare-to-Work program operator. WtW programs serve individuals who may also be served by the WIA programs and, through appropriate linkages and referrals, these customers will have access to a broader range of services through the cooperation of the WtW program in the One-Stop system. WtW participants, who are determined to be WIA eligible, and who need occupational skills training may be referred through the One-Stop system to receive WIA training, when WtW grant and other grant funds are not available in accordance with § 663.320(a). WIA participants who are also determined WtW eligible, may be referred to the WtW operator for job placement and other WtW assistance.
(b) The local TANF agency is specifically suggested under WIA as an additional partner in the One-Stop system. TANF recipients will have access to more information about employment opportunities and services when the TANF agency participates in the One-Stop delivery system. The Governor and Local Board should encourage the TANF agency to become a One-Stop partner to improve the quality of services to the WtW and TANF-eligible populations. In addition, becoming a One-Stop partner will ensure that the TANF agency is represented on the Local Board and participates in developing workforce investment strategies that help cash assistance recipients secure lasting employment.
§ 663.630
How does a displaced homemaker qualify for services under title I?
Displaced homemakers may be eligible to receive assistance under title I in a variety of ways, including:
(a) Core services provided by the One-Stop partners through the One-Stop delivery system;
(b) Intensive or training services for which an individual qualifies as a dislocated worker/displaced homemaker if the requirements of this part are met;
(c) Intensive or training services for which an individual is eligible if the requirements of this part are met;
(d) Statewide employment and training projects conducted with reserve
funds for innovative programs for displaced homemakers, as described in 20 CFR 665.210(f).
§ 663.640
May an individual with a disability whose family does not meet income eligibility criteria under the Act be eligible for priority as a low-income adult?
Yes, even if the family of an individual with a disability does not meet the income eligibility criteria, the individual with a disability is to be considered a low-income individual if the individual's own income:
(a) Meets the income criteria established in WIA section 101(25)(B); or
(b) Meets the income eligibility criteria for cash payments under any Federal, State or local public assistance program. (WIA sec. 101(25)(F).)

# Subpart G—On-the-Job Training (OJT) and Customized Training
§ 663.700
What are the requirements for on-the-job training (OJT)?
(a) On-the-job training (OJT) is defined at WIA section 101(31). OJT is provided under a contract with an employer in the public, private non-profit, or private sector. Through the OJT contract, occupational training is provided for the WIA participant in exchange for the reimbursement of up to 50 percent of the wage rate to compensate for the employer's extraordinary costs. (WIA sec. 101(31)(B).)
(b) The local program must not contract with an employer who has previously exhibited a pattern of failing to provide OJT participants with continued long-term employment with wages, benefits, and working conditions that are equal to those provided to regular employees who have worked a similar length of time and are doing the same type of work. (WIA sec. 195(4).)
(c) An OJT contract must be limited to the period of time required for a participant to become proficient in the occupation for which the training is being provided. In determining the appropriate length of the contract, consideration should be given to the skill requirements of the occupation, the academic and occupational skill level of the participant, prior work experience, and the participant's individual employment plan. (WIA sec. 101(31)(C).)
§ 663.705
What are the requirements for OJT contracts for employed workers?
OJT contracts may be written for eligible employed workers when:
(a) The employee is not earning a self-sufficient wage as determined by Local Board policy;
(b) The requirements in § 663.700 are met; and
(c) The OJT relates to the introduction of new technologies, introduction to new production or service procedures, upgrading to new jobs that require additional skills, workplace literacy, or other appropriate purposes identified by the Local Board.
§ 663.710
What conditions govern OJT payments to employers?
(a) On-the-job training payments to employers are deemed to be compensation for the extraordinary costs associated with training participants and the costs associated with the lower productivity of the participants.
(b) Employers may be reimbursed up to 50 percent of the wage rate of an OJT participant for the extraordinary costs of providing the training and additional supervision related to the OJT. (WIA sec. 101(31)(B).)
(c) Employers are not required to document such extraordinary costs.
§ 663.715
What is customized training?
Customized training is training:
(a) That is designed to meet the special requirements of an employer (including a group of employers);
(b) That is conducted with a commitment by the employer to employ, or in the case of incumbent workers, continue to employ, an individual on successful completion of the training; and
(c) For which the employer pays for not less than 50 percent of the cost of the training. (WIA sec. 101(8).)
§ 663.720
What are the requirements for customized training for employed workers?
Customized training of an eligible employed individual may be provided for an employer or a group of employers when:
(a) The employee is not earning a self-sufficient wage as determined by Local Board policy;
(b) The requirements in § 663.715 are met; and
(c) The customized training relates to the purposes described in § 663.705(c) or other appropriate purposes identified by the Local Board.
§ 663.730
May funds provided to employers for OJT of customized training be used to assist, promote, or deter union organizing?
No, funds provided to employers for OJT or customized training must not be used to directly or indirectly assist, promote or deter union organizing.

# Subpart H—Supportive Services
§ 663.800
What are supportive services for adults and dislocated workers?
Supportive services for adults and dislocated workers are defined at WIA sections 101(46) and 134(e)(2) and (3). They include services such as transportation, child care, dependent care, housing, and needs-related payments, that are necessary to enable an individual to participate in activities authorized under WIA title I. Local Boards, in consultation with the One-Stop partners and other community service providers, must develop a policy on supportive services that ensures resource and service coordination in the local area. Such policy should address procedures for referral to such services, including how such services will be funded when they are not otherwise available from other sources. The provision of accurate information about the availability of supportive services in the local area, as well as referral to such activities, is one of the core services that must be available to adults and dislocated workers through the One-Stop delivery system. (WIA sec. 134(d)(2)(H).)
§ 663.805
When may supportive services be provided to participants?
(a) Supportive services may only be provided to individuals who are:
(1) Participating in core, intensive or training services; and
(2) Unable to obtain supportive services through other programs providing such services. (WIA sec. 134(e)(2)(A) and (B).)
(b) Supportive services may only be provided when they are necessary to enable individuals to participate in title I activities. (WIA sec. 101(46).)
§ 663.810
Are there limits on the amounts or duration of funds for supportive services?
(a) Local Boards may establish limits on the provision of supportive services or provide the One-Stop operator with the authority to establish such limits, including a maximum amount of funding and maximum length of time for supportive services to be available to participants.
(b) Procedures may also be established to allow One-Stop operators to grant exceptions to the limits established under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 663.815
What are needs-related payments?
Needs-related payments provide financial assistance to participants for the purpose of enabling individuals to participate in training and are one of the supportive services authorized by WIA section 134(e)(3).
§ 663.820
What are the eligibility requirements for adults to receive needs-related payments?
Adults must:
(a) Be unemployed,
(b) Not qualify for, or have ceased qualifying for, unemployment compensation; and
(c) Be enrolled in a program of training services under WIA section 134(d)(4).
§ 663.825
What are the eligibility requirements for dislocated workers to receive needs-related payments?
To receive needs related payments, a dislocated worker must:
(a) Be unemployed, and:
(1) Have ceased to qualify for unemployment compensation or trade readjustment allowance under TAA or NAFTA-TAA; and
(2) Be enrolled in a program of training services under WIA section 134(d)(4) by the end of the 13th week after the most recent layoff that resulted in a
determination of the worker's eligibility as a dislocated worker, or, if later, by the end of the 8th week after the worker is informed that a short-term layoff will exceed 6 months; or
(b) Be unemployed and did not qualify for unemployment compensation or trade readjustment assistance under TAA or NAFTA-TAA.
§ 663.830
May needs-related payments be paid while a participant is waiting to start training classes?
Yes, payments may be provided if the participant has been accepted in a training program that will begin within 30 calendar days. The Governor may authorize local areas to extend the 30 day period to address appropriate circumstances.
§ 663.840
How is the level of needs-related payments determined?
(a) The payment level for adults must be established by the Local Board.
(b) For dislocated workers, payments must not exceed the greater of either of the following levels:
(1) For participants who were eligible for unemployment compensation as a result of the qualifying dislocation, the payment may not exceed the applicable weekly level of the unemployment compensation benefit; or
(2) For participants who did not qualify for unemployment compensation as a result of the qualifying layoff, the weekly payment may not exceed the poverty level for an equivalent period. The weekly payment level must be adjusted to reflect changes in total family income as determined by Local Board policies. (WIA sec. 134(e)(3)(C).)
Pt. 664

# PART 664—YOUTH ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—Youth Councils
Sec.
664.100
What is the youth council?
664.110
Who is responsible for oversight of youth programs in the local area?

# Subpart B—Eligibility for Youth Services
664.200
Who is eligible for youth services?
664.205
How is the “deficient in basic literacy skills” criterion in § 664.200(c)(1) defined and documented?
664.210
How is the “requires additional assistance to complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion in § 664.200(c)(6) defined and documented?
664.215
Must youth participants be registered to participate in the youth program?
664.220
Is there an exception to permit youth who are not low-income individuals to receive youth services?
664.230
Are the eligibility barriers for eligible youth the same as the eligibility barriers for the five percent of youth participants who do not have to meet income eligibility requirements?
664.240
May a local program use eligibility for free lunches under the National School Lunch Program as a substitute for the income eligibility criteria under title I of WIA?
664.250
May a disabled youth whose family does not meet income eligibility criteria under the Act be eligible for youth services?

# Subpart C—Out-of-School Youth
664.300
Who is an “out-of-school youth”?
664.310
When is dropout status determined, particularly for youth attending alternative schools?
664.320
Does the requirement that at least 30 percent of youth funds be used to provide activities to out-of-school youth apply to all youth funds?

# Subpart D—Youth Program Design, Elements, and Parameters
664.400
What is a local youth program?
664.405
How must local youth programs be designed?
664.410
Must local programs include each of the ten program elements listed in WIA section 129(c)(2) as options available to youth participants?
664.420
What are leadership development opportunities?
664.430
What are positive social behaviors?
664.440
What are supportive services for youth?
664.450
What are follow-up services for youth?
664.460
What are work experiences for youth?
664.470
Are paid work experiences allowable activities?

# Subpart E—Concurrent Enrollment
664.500
May youth participate in both youth and adult/dislocated worker programs concurrently?
664.510
Are Individual Training Accounts allowed for youth participants?

# Subpart F—Summer Employment Opportunities
664.600
Are Local Boards required to offer summer employment opportunities in the local youth program?
664.610
How is the summer employment opportunities element administered?
664.620
Do the core indicators described in 20 CFR 666.100(a)(3) apply to participation in summer employment activities?

# Subpart G—One-Stop Services to Youth
664.700
What is the connection between the youth program and the One-Stop service delivery system?
664.710
Do Local Boards have the flexibility to offer services to area youth who are not eligible under the youth program through the One-Stop centers?

# Subpart H—Youth Opportunity Grants
664.800
How are the recipients of Youth Opportunity Grants selected?
664.810
How does a Local Board or other entity become eligible to receive a Youth Opportunity Grant?
664.820
Who is eligible to receive services under Youth Opportunity Grants?
664.830
How are performance measures for Youth Opportunity Grants determined?

# Authority:
Sec. 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49411, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Youth Councils
§ 664.100
What is the youth council?
(a) The duties and membership requirements of the youth council are described in WIA section 117(h) and 20 CFR 661.335 and 661.340.
(b) The purpose of the youth council is to provide expertise in youth policy and to assist the Local Board in:
(1) Developing and recommending local youth employment and training policy and practice;
(2) Broadening the youth employment and training focus in the community to incorporate a youth development perspective;
(3) Establishing linkages with other organizations serving youth in the local area; and
(4) Taking into account a range of issues that can have an impact on the success of youth in the labor market. (WIA sec. 117(h).)
§ 664.110
Who is responsible for oversight of youth programs in the local area?
(a) The Local Board, working with the youth council, is responsible for conducting oversight of local youth programs operated under the Act, to ensure both fiscal and programmatic accountability.
(b) Local program oversight is conducted in consultation with the local area's chief elected official.
(c) The Local Board may, after consultation with the CEO, delegate its responsibility for oversight of eligible youth providers, as well as other youth program oversight responsibilities, to the youth council, recognizing the advantage of delegating such responsibilities to the youth council whose members have expertise in youth issues. (WIA sec. 117(d); 117(h)(4).)

# Subpart B—Eligibility for Youth Services
§ 664.200
Who is eligible for youth services?
An eligible youth is defined, under WIA sec. 101(13), as an individual who:
(a) Is age 14 through 21;
(b) Is a low income individual, as defined in the WIA section 101(25); and
(c) Is within one or more of the following categories:
(1) Deficient in basic literacy skills;
(2) School dropout;
(3) Homeless, runaway, or foster child;
(4) Pregnant or parenting;
(5) Offender; or
(6) Is an individual (including a youth with a disability) who requires additional assistance to complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment. (WIA sec. 101(13).)
§ 664.205
How is the “deficient in basic literacy skills” criterion in § 664.200(c)(1) defined and documented?
(a) Definitions and eligibility documentation requirements regarding the “deficient in basic literacy skills” criterion in § 664.200(c)(1) may be established at the State or local level. These
definitions may establish such criteria as are needed to address State or local concerns, and must include a determination that an individual:
(1) Computes or solves problems, reads, writes, or speaks English at or below the 8th grade level on a generally accepted standardized test or a comparable score on a criterion-referenced test; or
(2) Is unable to compute or solve problems, read, write, or speak English at a level necessary to function on the job, in the individual's family or in society. (WIA secs. 101(19), 203(12).)
(b) In cases where the State Board establishes State policy on this criterion, the policy must be included in the State plan. (WIA secs. 101(13)(C)(i), 101(19).)
§ 664.210
How is the “requires additional assistance to complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion in § 664.200(c)(6) defined and documented?
Definitions and eligibility documentation requirements regarding the “requires additional assistance to complete an educational program, or to secure and hold employment” criterion of § 664.200(c)(6) may be established at the State or local level. In cases where the State Board establishes State policy on this criterion, the policy must be included in the State Plan. (WIA sec. 101(13)(C)(iv).)
§ 664.215
Must youth participants be registered to participate in the youth program?
(a) Yes, all youth participants must be registered.
(b) Registration is the process of collecting information to support a determination of eligibility.
(c) Equal opportunity data must be collected during the registration process on any individual who has submitted personal information in response to a request by the recipient for such information.
§ 664.220
Is there an exception to permit youth who are not low-income individuals to receive youth services?
Yes, up to five percent of youth participants served by youth programs in a local area may be individuals who do not meet the income criterion for eligible youth, provided that they are within one or more of the following categories:
(a) School dropout;
(b) Basic skills deficient, as defined in WIA section 101(4);
(c) Are one or more grade levels below the grade level appropriate to the individual's age;
(d) Pregnant or parenting;
(e) Possess one or more disabilities, including learning disabilities;
(f) Homeless or runaway;
(g) Offender; or
(h) Face serious barriers to employment as identified by the Local Board. (WIA sec. 129(c)(5).)
§ 664.230
Are the eligibility barriers for eligible youth the same as the eligibility barriers for the five percent of youth participants who do not have to meet income eligibility requirements?
No, the barriers listed in §§ 664.200 and 664.220 are not the same. Both lists of eligibility barriers include school dropout, homeless or runaway, pregnant or parenting, and offender, but each list contains barriers not included on the other list.
§ 664.240
May a local program use eligibility for free lunches under the National School Lunch Program as a substitute for the income eligibility criteria under title I of WIA?
No, the criteria for income eligibility under the National School Lunch Program are not the same as the Act's income eligibility criteria. Therefore, the school lunch list may not be used as a substitute for income eligibility to determine who is eligible for services under the Act.
§ 664.250
May a disabled youth whose family does not meet income eligibility criteria under the Act be eligible for youth services?
Yes, even if the family of a disabled youth does not meet the income eligibility criteria, the disabled youth may be considered a low-income individual if the youth's own income:
(a) Meets the income criteria established in WIA section 101(25)(B); or
(b) Meets the income eligibility criteria for cash payments under any Federal, State or local public assistance program. (WIA sec. 101(25)(F).)

# Subpart C—Out-of-School Youth
§ 664.300
Who is an “out-of-school youth”?
An out-of-school youth is an individual who:
(a) Is an eligible youth who is a school dropout; or
(b) Is an eligible youth who has either graduated from high school or holds a GED, but is basic skills deficient, unemployed, or underemployed. (WIA sec. 101(33).)
§ 664.310
When is dropout status determined, particularly for youth attending alternative schools?
A school dropout is defined as an individual who is no longer attending any school and who has not received a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent. A youth's dropout status is determined at the time of registration. A youth attending an alternative school at the time of registration is not a dropout. An individual who is out-of school at the time of registration and subsequently placed in an alternative school, may be considered an out-of-school youth for the purposes of the 30 percent expenditure requirement for out-of-school youth. (WIA sec. 101(39).)
§ 664.320
Does the requirement that at least 30 percent of youth funds be used to provide activities to out-of-school youth apply to all youth funds?
(a) Yes, the 30 percent requirement applies to the total amount of all funds allocated to a local area under WIA section 128(b)(2)(A) or (b)(3), except for local area expenditures for administrative purposes under 20 CFR 667.210(a)(2).
(b) Although it is not necessary to ensure that 30 percent of such funds spent on summer employment opportunities (or any other particular element of the youth program) are spent on out-of-school youth, the funds spent on these activities are included in the total to which the 30 percent requirement applies.
(c) There is a limited exception, at WIA section 129(c)(4)(B), under which certain small States may apply to the Secretary to reduce the minimum amount that must be spent on out-of-school youth. (WIA sec. 129(c)(4).)

# Subpart D—Youth Program Design, Elements, and Parameters
§ 664.400
What is a local youth program?
A local youth program is defined as those youth activities offered by a Local Workforce Investment Board for a designated local workforce investment area, as specified in 20 CFR part 661.
§ 664.405
How must local youth programs be designed?
(a) The design framework of local youth programs must:
(1) Provide an objective assessment of each youth participant, that meets the requirements of WIA section 129(c)(1)(A), and includes a review of the academic and occupational skill levels, as well as the service needs, of each youth;
(2) Develop an individual service strategy for each youth participant that meets the requirements of WIA section 129(c)(1)(B), including identifying an age-appropriate career goal and consideration of the assessment results for each youth; and
(3) Provide preparation for postsecondary educational opportunities, provide linkages between academic and occupational learning, provide preparation for employment, and provide effective connections to intermediary organizations that provide strong links to the job market and employers.
(4) The requirement in WIA section 123 that eligible providers of youth services be selected by awarding a grant or contract on a competitive basis does not apply to the design framework component, such as services for intake, objective assessment and the development of individual service strategy, when these services are provided by the grant recipient/fiscal agent.
(b) The local plan must describe the design framework for youth program design in the local area, and how the ten program elements required in § 664.410 are provided within that framework.
(c) Local Boards must ensure appropriate links to entities that will foster the participation of eligible local area youth. Such links may include connections to:
(1) Local area justice and law enforcement officials;
(2) Local public housing authorities;
(3) Local education agencies;
(4) Job Corps representatives; and
(5) Representatives of other area youth initiatives, including those that serve homeless youth and other public and private youth initiatives.
(d) Local Boards must ensure that the referral requirements in WIA section 129(c)(3) for youth who meet the income eligibility criteria are met, including:
(1) Providing these youth with information regarding the full array of applicable or appropriate services available through the Local Board or other eligible providers, or One-Stop partners; and
(2) Referring these youth to appropriate training and educational programs that have the capacity to serve them either on a sequential or concurrent basis.
(e) In order to meet the basic skills and training needs of eligible applicants who do not meet the enrollment requirements of a particular program or who cannot be served by the program, each eligible youth provider must ensure that these youth are referred:
(1) For further assessment, as necessary, and
(2) To appropriate programs, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(f) Local Boards must ensure that parents, youth participants, and other members of the community with experience relating to youth programs are involved in both the design and implementation of its youth programs.
(g) The objective assessment required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or the individual service strategy required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is not required if the program provider determines that it is appropriate to use a recent objective assessment or individual service strategy that was developed under another education or training program. (WIA section 129(c)(1).)
§ 664.410
Must local programs include each of the ten program elements listed in WIA section 129(c)(2) as options available to youth participants?
(a) Yes, local programs must make the following services available to youth participants:
(1) Tutoring, study skills training, and instruction leading to secondary school completion, including dropout prevention strategies;
(2) Alternative secondary school offerings;
(3) Summer employment opportunities directly linked to academic and occupational learning;
(4) Paid and unpaid work experiences, including internships and job shadowing, as provided in §§ 664.460 and 664.470;
(5) Occupational skill training;
(6) Leadership development opportunities, which include community service and peer-centered activities encouraging responsibility and other positive social behaviors;
(7) Supportive services, which may include the services listed in § 664.440;
(8) Adult mentoring for a duration of at least twelve (12) months, that may occur both during and after program participation;
(9) Followup services, as provided in § 664.450; and
(10) Comprehensive guidance and counseling, including drug and alcohol abuse counseling, as well as referrals to counseling, as appropriate to the needs of the individual youth.
(b) Local programs have the discretion to determine what specific program services will be provided to a youth participant, based on each participant's objective assessment and individual service strategy. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2).)
§ 664.420
What are leadership development opportunities?
Leadership development opportunities are opportunities that encourage
responsibility, employability, and other positive social behaviors such as:
(a) Exposure to postsecondary educational opportunities;
(b) Community and service learning projects;
(c) Peer-centered activities, including peer mentoring and tutoring;
(d) Organizational and team work training, including team leadership training;
(e) Training in decision-making, including determining priorities; and
(f) Citizenship training, including life skills training such as parenting, work behavior training, and budgeting of resources. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2)(F).)
§ 664.430
What are positive social behaviors?
Positive social behaviors are outcomes of leadership opportunities, often referred to as soft skills, which are incorporated by many local programs as part of their menu of services. Positive social behaviors focus on areas that may include the following:
(a) Positive attitudinal development;
(b) Self esteem building;
(c) Openness to working with individuals from diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds;
(d) Maintaining healthy lifestyles, including being alcohol and drug free;
(e) Maintaining positive relationships with responsible adults and peers, and contributing to the well being of one's community, including voting;
(f) Maintaining a commitment to learning and academic success;
(g) Avoiding delinquency;
(h) Postponed and responsible parenting; and
(i) Positive job attitudes and work skills. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2)(F).)
§ 664.440
What are supportive services for youth?
Supportive services for youth, as defined in WIA section 101(46), may include the following:
(a) Linkages to community services;
(b) Assistance with transportation;
(c) Assistance with child care and dependent care;
(d) Assistance with housing;
(e) Referrals to medical services; and
(f) Assistance with uniforms or other appropriate work attire and work-related tools, including such items as eye glasses and protective eye gear. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2)(G).)
§ 664.450
What are follow-up services for youth?
(a) Follow-up services for youth may include:
(1) The leadership development and supportive service activities listed in §§ 664.420 and 664.440;
(2) Regular contact with a youth participant's employer, including assistance in addressing work-related problems that arise;
(3) Assistance in securing better paying jobs, career development and further education;
(4) Work-related peer support groups;
(5) Adult mentoring; and
(6) Tracking the progress of youth in employment after training.
(b) All youth participants must receive some form of follow-up services for a minimum duration of 12 months. Follow-up services may be provided beyond twelve (12) months at the State or Local Board's discretion. The types of services provided and the duration of services must be determined based on the needs of the individual. The scope of these follow-up services may be less intensive for youth who have only participated in summer youth employment opportunities. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2)(I).)
§ 664.460
What are work experiences for youth?
(a) Work experiences are planned, structured learning experiences that take place in a workplace for a limited period of time. As provided in WIA section 129(c)(2)(D) and § 664.470, work experiences may be paid or unpaid.
(b) Work experience workplaces may be in the private, for-profit sector; the non-profit sector; or the public sector.
(c) Work experiences are designed to enable youth to gain exposure to the working world and its requirements. Work experiences are appropriate and desirable activities for many youth throughout the year. Work experiences should help youth acquire the personal attributes, knowledge, and skills needed to obtain a job and advance in employment. The purpose is to provide
the youth participant with the opportunities for career exploration and skill development and is not to benefit the employer, although the employer may, in fact, benefit from the activities performed by the youth. Work experiences may be subsidized or unsubsidized and may include the following elements:
(1) Instruction in employability skills or generic workplace skills such as those identified by the Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS);
(2) Exposure to various aspects of an industry;
(3) Progressively more complex tasks;
(4) Internships and job shadowing;
(5) The integration of basic academic skills into work activities;
(6) Supported work, work adjustment, and other transition activities;
(7) Entrepreneurship;
(8) Service learning;
(9) Paid and unpaid community service; and
(10) Other elements designed to achieve the goals of work experiences.
(d) In most cases, on-the-job training is not an appropriate work experiences activity for youth participants under age 18. Local program operators may choose, however, to use this service strategy for eligible youth when it is appropriate based on the needs identified by the objective assessment of an individual youth participant. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2)(D).)
§ 664.470
Are paid work experiences allowable activities?
Funds under the Act may be used to pay wages and related benefits for work experiences in the public; private, for-profit or non-profit sectors where the objective assessment and individual service strategy indicate that work experiences are appropriate. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2)(D).)

# Subpart E—Concurrent Enrollment
§ 664.500
May youth participate in both youth and adult/dislocated worker programs concurrently?
(a) Yes, under the Act, eligible youth are 14 through 21 years of age. Adults are defined in the Act as individuals age 18 and older. Thus, individuals ages 18 through 21 may be eligible for both adult and youth programs. There is no specified age for the dislocated worker program.
(b) Individuals who meet the respective eligibility requirements may participate in adult and youth programs concurrently. Concurrent enrollment is allowable for youth served in programs under WIA titles I or II. Such individuals must be eligible under the youth or adult/dislocated worker eligibility criteria applicable to the services received. Local program operators may determine, for individuals in this age group, the appropriate level and balance of services under the youth, adult, dislocated worker, or other services.
(c) Local program operators must identify and track the funding streams which pay the costs of services provided to individuals who are participating in youth and adult/dislocated worker programs concurrently, and ensure that services are not duplicated.
§ 664.510
Are Individual Training Accounts allowed for youth participants?
No, however, individuals age 18 and above, who are eligible for training services under the adult and dislocated worker programs, may receive Individual Training Accounts through those programs. Requirements for concurrent participation requirements are set forth in § 664.500. To the extent possible, in order to enhance youth participant choice, youth participants should be involved in the selection of educational and training activities.

# Subpart F—Summer Employment Opportunities
§ 664.600
Are Local Boards required to offer summer employment opportunities in the local youth program?
(a) Yes, Local Boards are required to offer summer youth employment opportunities that link academic and occupational learning as part of the menu of services required in § 664.410(a).
(b) Summer youth employment must provide direct linkages to academic and occupational learning, and may provide other elements and strategies
as appropriate to serve the needs and goals of the participants.
(c) Local Boards may determine how much of available youth funds will be used for summer and for year-round youth activities.
(d) The summer youth employment opportunities element is not intended to be a stand-alone program. Local programs should integrate a youth's participation in that element into a comprehensive strategy for addressing the youth's employment and training needs. Youths who participate in summer employment opportunities must be provided with a minimum of twelve months of followup services, as required in § 664.450. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2)(C).)
§ 664.610
How is the summer employment opportunities element administered?
Chief elected officials and Local Boards are responsible for ensuring that the local youth program provides summer employment opportunities to youth. The chief elected officials (which may include local government units operating as a consortium) are the grant recipients for local youth funds, unless another entity is chosen to be grant recipient or fiscal agent under WIA section 117(d)(3)(B). If, in the administration of the summer employment opportunities element of the local youth program, providers other than the grant recipient/fiscal agent, are used to provide summer youth employment opportunities, these providers must be selected by awarding a grant or contract on a competitive basis, based on the recommendation of the youth council and on criteria contained in the State Plan. However, the selection of employers who are providing unsubsidized employment opportunities may be excluded from the competitive process. (WIA sec. 129(c)(2)(C).)
§ 664.620
Do the core indicators described in 20 CFR 666.100(a)(3) apply to participation in summer employment activities?
Yes, the summer employment opportunities element is one of a number of activities authorized by the WIA youth program. WIA section 136(b)(2) (A)(ii) and(B) provides specific core indicators of performance for youth, and requires that all participating youth be included in the determination of whether the local levels of performance are met. Program operators can help ensure positive outcomes for youth participants by providing them with continuity of services.

# Subpart G—One-Stop Services to Youth
§ 664.700
What is the connection between the youth program and the One-Stop service delivery system?
(a) The chief elected official (or designee, under WIA section 117(d)(3)(B)), as the local grant recipient for the youth program is a required One-Stop partner and is subject to the requirements that apply to such partners, described in 20 CFR part 662.
(b) In addition to the provisions of 20 CFR part 662, connections between the youth program and the One-Stop system may include those that facilitate:
(1) The coordination and provision of youth activities;
(2) Linkages to the job market and employers;
(3) Access for eligible youth to the information and services required in §§ 664.400 and 664.410; and
(4) Other activities designed to achieve the purposes of the youth program and youth activities as described in WIA section 129(a). (WIA secs. 121(b)(1)(B)(i); 129.)
§ 664.710
Do Local Boards have the flexibility to offer services to area youth who are not eligible under the youth program through the One-Stop centers?
Yes, however, One-Stop services for non-eligible youth must be funded by programs that are authorized to provide services to such youth. For example, basic labor exchange services under the Wagner-Peyser Act may be provided to any youth.

# Subpart H—Youth Opportunity Grants
§ 664.800
How are the recipients of Youth Opportunity Grants selected?
(a) Youth Opportunity Grants are awarded through a competitive selection process. The Secretary establishes appropriate application procedures, selection criteria, and an approval process for awarding Youth Opportunity Grants to applicants which can accomplish the purpose of the Act and use available funds in an effective manner in the Solicitation for Grant Applications announcing the competition.
(b) The Secretary distributes grants equitably among urban and rural areas by taking into consideration such factors as the following:
(1) The poverty rate in urban and rural communities;
(2) The number of people in poverty in urban and rural communities; and
(3) The quality of proposals received. (WIA sec.169(a) and (e).)
§ 664.810
How does a Local Board or other entity become eligible to receive a Youth Opportunity Grant?
(a) A Local Board is eligible to receive a Youth Opportunity Grant if it serves a community that:
(1) Has been designated as an empowerment zone (EZ) or enterprise community (EC) under section 1391 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(2) Is located in a State that does not have an EZ or an EC and that has been designated by its Governor as a high poverty area; or
(3) Is one of two areas in a State that has been designated by the Governor as an area for which a local board may apply for a Youth Opportunity Grant, and that meets the poverty rate criteria in section 1392 (a)(4), (b), and (d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(b) An entity other than a Local Board is eligible to receive a grant if that entity:
(1) Is a WIA Indian and Native American grant recipient under WIA section 166; and
(2) Serves a community that:
(i) Meets the poverty rate criteria in section 1392(a)(4), (b), and (d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
(ii) Is located on an Indian reservation or serves Oklahoma Indians or Alaska Native villages or Native groups, as provided in WIA section 169 (d)(2)(B). (WIA sec. 169(c) and (d).)
§ 664.820
Who is eligible to receive services under Youth Opportunity Grants?
All individuals ages 14 through 21 who reside in the community identified in the grant are eligible to receive services under the grant. (WIA sec. 169(a).)
§ 664.830
How are performance measures for Youth Opportunity Grants determined?
(a) The Secretary negotiates performance measures, including appropriate performance levels for each indicator, with each selected grantee, based on information contained in the application.
(b) Performance indicators for the measures negotiated under Youth Opportunity Grants are the indicators of performance provided in WIA sections 136(b)(2)(A) and (B). (WIA sec. 169(f).).
Pt. 665

# PART 665—STATEWIDE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—General Description
Sec.
665.100
What are the Statewide workforce investment activities under title I of WIA?
665.110
How are Statewide workforce investment activities funded?

# Subpart B—Required and Allowable Statewide Workforce Investment Activities
665.200
What are required Statewide workforce investment activities?
665.210
What are allowable Statewide workforce investment activities?
665.220
Who is an “incumbent worker” for purposes of Statewide workforce investment activities?

# Subpart C—Rapid Response Activities
665.300
What are rapid response activities and who is responsible for providing them?
665.310
What rapid response activities are required?
665.320
May other activities be undertaken as part of rapid response?
665.330
Are the NAFTA-TAA program requirements for rapid response also required activities?
665.340
What is meant by “provision of additional assistance” in WIA section 134(a)(2)(A)(ii)?

# Authority:
Section 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49415, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Description
§ 665.100
What are the Statewide workforce investment activities under title I of WIA?
Statewide workforce investment activities include Statewide employment and training activities for adults and dislocated workers, as described in WIA section 134(a), and Statewide youth activities, as described in WIA section 129(b). They include both required and allowable activities. In accordance with the requirements of this subpart, the State may develop policies and strategies for use of Statewide workforce investment funds. Descriptions of these policies and strategies must be included in the State Plan. (WIA secs. 129(b), 134(a).)
§ 665.110
How are Statewide workforce investment activities funded?
(a) Except for the Statewide rapid response activities described in paragraph (c) of this section, Statewide workforce investment activities are supported by funds reserved by the Governor under WIA section 128(a).
(b) Funds reserved by the Governor for Statewide workforce investment activities may be combined and used for any of the activities authorized in WIA sections 129(b), 134(a)(2)(B) or 134(a)(3)(A) (which are described in §§ 665.200 and 665.210), regardless of whether the funds were allotted through the youth, adult, or dislocated worker funding streams.
(c) Funds for Statewide rapid response activities are reserved under WIA section 133(a)(2) and may be used to provide the activities authorized at section 134(a)(2)(A) (which are described in §§ 665.310 through 665.330). (WIA secs. 129(b), 133(a)(2), 134(a)(2)(B), and 134(a)(3)(A).)

# Subpart B—Required and Allowable Statewide Workforce Investment Activities
§ 665.200
What are required Statewide workforce investment activities?
Required Statewide workforce investment activities are:
(a) Required rapid response activities, as described in § 665.310;
(b) Disseminating:
(1) The State list of eligible providers of training services (including those providing non-traditional training services), for adults and dislocated workers;
(2) Information identifying eligible providers of on-the-job training (OJT) and customized training;
(3) Performance and program cost information about these providers, as described in 20 CFR 663.540; and
(4) A list of eligible providers of youth activities as described in WIA section 123;
(c) States must assure that the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section is widely available.
(d) Conducting evaluations, under WIA section 136(e), of workforce investment activities for adults, dislocated workers and youth, in order to establish and promote methods for continuously improving such activities to achieve high-level performance within, and high-level outcomes from, the Statewide workforce investment system. Such evaluations must be designed and conducted in conjunction with the State and Local Boards, and must include analysis of customer feedback, outcome and process measures in the workforce investment system. To the maximum extent practicable, these evaluations should be conducted in coordination with Federal evaluations carried out under WIA section 172.
(e) Providing incentive grants:
(1) To local areas for regional cooperation among Local Boards (including Local Boards for a designated region, as described in 20 CFR 661.290);
(2) For local coordination of activities carried out under WIA; and
(3) For exemplary performance by local areas on the performance measures.
(f) Providing technical assistance to local areas that fail to meet local performance measures.
(g) Assisting in the establishment and operation of One-Stop delivery systems, in accordance with the strategy described in the State workforce investment plan. (WIA sec. 112(b)(14).)
(h) Providing additional assistance to local areas that have high concentrations of eligible youth.
(i) Operating a fiscal and management accountability information system, based on guidelines established by the Secretary after consultation with the Governors, chief elected officials, and One-Stop partners, as required by WIA section 136(f). (WIA secs. 129(b)(2), 134(a)(2), and 136(e)(2).)
§ 665.210
What are allowable Statewide workforce investment activities?
Allowable Statewide workforce investment activities include:
(a) State administration of the adult, dislocated worker and youth workforce investment activities, consistent with the five percent administrative cost limitation at 20 CFR 667.210(a)(1).
(b) Providing capacity building and technical assistance to local areas, including Local Boards, One-Stop operators, One-Stop partners, and eligible providers, which may include:
(1) Staff development and training; and
(2) The development of exemplary program activities.
(c) Conducting research and demonstrations.
(d) Establishing and implementing:
(1) Innovative incumbent worker training programs, which may include an employer loan program to assist in skills upgrading; and
(2) Programs targeted to Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities.
(e) Providing support to local areas for the identification of eligible training providers.
(f) Implementing innovative programs for displaced homemakers, and programs to increase the number of individuals trained for and placed in non-traditional employment.
(g) Carrying out such adult and dislocated worker employment and training activities as the State determines are necessary to assist local areas in carrying out local employment and training activities.
(h) Carrying out youth activities Statewide.
(i) Preparation and submission to the Secretary of the annual performance progress report as described in 20 CFR 667.300(e). (WIA secs. 129(b)(3) and 134(a)(3).)
§ 665.220
Who is an “incumbent worker” for purposes of Statewide workforce investment activities?
States may establish policies and definitions to determine which workers, or groups of workers, are eligible for incumbent worker services under this subpart. An incumbent worker is an individual who is employed, but an incumbent worker does not necessarily have to meet the eligibility requirements for intensive and training services for employed adults and dislocated workers at 20 CFR 663.220(b) and 663.310. (WIA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(iv)(I).)

# Subpart C—Rapid Response Activities
§ 665.300
What are rapid response activities and who is responsible for providing them?
(a) Rapid response activities are described in §§ 665.310 through 665.330. They encompass the activities necessary to plan and deliver services to enable dislocated workers to transition to new employment as quickly as possible, following either a permanent closure or mass layoff, or a natural or other disaster resulting in a mass job dislocation.
(b) The State is responsible for providing rapid response activities. Rapid response is a required activity carried out in local areas by the State, or an entity designated by the State, in conjunction with the Local Board and chief elected officials. The State must establish methods by which to provide additional assistance to local areas that experience disasters, mass layoffs, plant closings, or other dislocation events when such events substantially increase the number of unemployed individuals.
(c) States must establish a rapid response dislocated worker unit to carry
out Statewide rapid response activities. (WIA secs. 101(38), 112(b)(17)(A)(ii) and 134(a)(2)(A).)
§ 665.310
What rapid response activities are required?
Rapid response activities must include:
(a) Immediate and on-site contact with the employer, representatives of the affected workers, and the local community, which may include an assessment of the:
(1) Layoff plans and schedule of the employer;
(2) Potential for averting the layoff(s) in consultation with State or local economic development agencies, including private sector economic development entities;
(3) Background and probable assistance needs of the affected workers;
(4) Reemployment prospects for workers in the local community; and
(5) Available resources to meet the short and long-term assistance needs of the affected workers.
(b) The provision of information and access to unemployment compensation benefits, comprehensive One-Stop system services, and employment and training activities, including information on the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program and the NAFTA-TAA program (19 U.S.C. 2271
et seq.
);
(c) The provision of guidance and/or financial assistance in establishing a labor-management committee voluntarily agreed to by labor and management, or a workforce transition committee comprised of representatives of the employer, the affected workers and the local community. The committee may devise and oversee an implementation strategy that responds to the reemployment needs of the workers. The assistance to this committee may include:
(1) The provision of training and technical assistance to members of the committee;
(2) Funding the operating costs of a committee to enable it to provide advice and assistance in carrying out rapid response activities and in the design and delivery of WIA-authorized services to affected workers. Typically, such support will last no longer than six months; and
(3) Providing a list of potential candidates to serve as a neutral chairperson of the committee.
(d) The provision of emergency assistance adapted to the particular closing, layoff or disaster.
(e) The provision of assistance to the local board and chief elected official(s) to develop a coordinated response to the dislocation event and, as needed, obtain access to State economic development assistance. Such coordinated response may include the development of an application for National Emergency Grant under 20 CFR part 671. (WIA secs. 101(38) and 134(a)(2)(A).)
§ 665.320
May other activities be undertaken as part of rapid response?
Yes, a State or designated entity may provide rapid response activities in addition to the activities required to be provided under § 665.310. In order to provide effective rapid response upon notification of a permanent closure or mass layoff, or a natural or other disaster resulting in a mass job dislocation, the State or designated entity may:
(a) In conjunction, with other appropriate Federal, State and Local agencies and officials, employer associations, technical councils or other industry business councils, and labor organizations:
(1) Develop prospective strategies for addressing dislocation events, that ensure rapid access to the broad range of allowable assistance;
(2) Identify strategies for the aversion of layoffs; and
(3) Develop and maintain mechanisms for the regular exchange of information relating to potential dislocations, available adjustment assistance, and the effectiveness of rapid response strategies.
(b) In collaboration with the appropriate State agency(ies), collect and analyze information related to economic dislocations, including potential closings and layoffs, and all available resources in the State for dislocated workers in order to provide an adequate basis for effective program management, review and evaluation of rapid response and layoff aversion efforts in the State.
(c) Participate in capacity building activities, including providing information about innovative and successful strategies for serving dislocated workers, with local areas serving smaller layoffs.
(d) Assist in devising and overseeing strategies for:
(1) Layoff aversion, such as prefeasibility studies of avoiding a plant closure through an option for a company or group, including the workers, to purchase the plant or company and continue it in operation;
(2) Incumbent worker training, including employer loan programs for employee skill upgrading; and
(3) Linkages with economic development activities at the Federal, State and local levels, including Federal Department of Commerce programs and available State and local business retention and recruitment activities.
§ 665.330
Are the NAFTA-TAA program requirements for rapid response also required activities?
The Governor must ensure that rapid response activities under WIA are made available to workers who, under the NAFTA Implementation Act (Public Law 103-182), are members of a group of workers (including those in any agricultural firm or subdivision of an agricultural firm) for which the Governor has made a preliminary finding that:
(a) A significant number or proportion of the workers in such firm or an appropriate subdivision of the firm have become totally or partially separated, or are threatened to become totally or partially separated; and
(b) Either:
(1) The sales or production, or both, of such firm or subdivision have decreased absolutely; and
(2) Imports from Mexico or Canada of articles like or directly competitive with those produced by such firm or subdivision have increased; or
(c) There has been a shift in production by such workers' firm or subdivision to Mexico or Canada of articles which are produced by the firm or subdivision.
§ 665.340
What is meant by “provision of additional assistance” in WIA section 134(a)(2)(A)(ii)?
Up to 25 percent of dislocated worker funds may be reserved for rapid response activities. Once the State has reserved adequate funds for rapid response activities, such as those described in §§ 665.310 and 665.320, the remainder of the funds may be used by the State to provide funds to local areas, that experience increased numbers of unemployed individuals due to natural disasters, plant closings, mass layoffs or other events, for provision of direct services to participants (such as intensive, training, and other services) if there are not adequate local funds available to assist the dislocated workers.
Pt. 666

# PART 666—PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—State Measures of Performance
Sec.
666.100
What performance indicators must be included in a State's plan?
666.110
May a Governor require additional indicators of performance?
666.120
What are the procedures for negotiating annual levels of performance?
666.130
Under what conditions may a State or DOL request revisions to the State negotiated levels of performance?
666.140
Which individuals receiving services are included in the core indicators of performance?
666.150
What responsibility do States have to use quarterly wage record information for performance accountability?

# Subpart B—Incentives and Sanctions for State Performance
666.200
Under what circumstances is a State eligible for an Incentive Grant?
666.205
What are the time frames under which States submit performance progress reports and apply for incentive grants?
666.210
How may Incentive Grant funds be used?
666.220
What information must be included in a State Board's application for an Incentive Grant?
666.230
How does the Department determine the amounts for Incentive Grant awards?
666.240
Under what circumstances may a sanction be applied to a State that fails
to achieve negotiated levels of performance for title I?

# Subpart C—Local Measures of Performance
666.300
What performance indicators apply to local areas?
666.310
What levels of performance apply to the indicators of performance in local areas?

# Subpart D—Incentives and Sanctions for Local Performance
666.400
Under what circumstances are local areas eligible for State Incentive Grants?
666.410
How may local incentive awards be used?
666.420
Under what circumstances may a sanction be applied to local areas for poor performance?

# Authority:
Sec. 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49402, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—State Measures of Performance
§ 666.100
What performance indicators must be included in a State's plan?
(a) All States submitting a State Plan under WIA title I, subtitle B must propose expected levels of performance for each of the core indicators of performance for the adult, dislocated worker and youth programs, respectively and the two customer satisfaction indicators.
(1) For the Adult program, these indicators are:
(i) Entry into unsubsidized employment;
(ii) Retention in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment;
(iii) Earnings received in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment; and
(iv) Attainment of a recognized credential related to achievement of educational skills (such as a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent), or occupational skills, by participants who enter unsubsidized employment.
(2) For the Dislocated Worker program, these indicators are:
(i) Entry into unsubsidized employment;
(ii) Retention in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment;
(iii) Earnings received in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment; and
(iv) Attainment of a recognized credential related to achievement of educational skills (such as a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent), or occupational skills, by participants who enter unsubsidized employment.
(3) For the Youth program, these indicators are:
(i) For eligible youth aged 14 through 18:
(A) Attainment of basic skills goals, and, as appropriate, work readiness or occupational skills goals, up to a maximum of three goals per year;
(B) Attainment of secondary school diplomas and their recognized equivalents; and
(C) Placement and retention in postsecondary education, advanced training, military service, employment, or qualified apprenticeships.
(ii) For eligible youth aged 19 through 21:
(A) Entry into unsubsidized employment;
(B) Retention in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment;
(C) Earnings received in unsubsidized employment six months after entry into the employment; and
(D) Attainment of a recognized credential related to achievement of educational skills (such as a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent), or occupational skills, by participants who enter post-secondary education, advanced training, or unsubsidized employment.
(4) A single customer satisfaction measure for employers and a single customer satisfaction indicator for participants must be used for the WIA title I, subtitle B programs for adults, dislocated workers and youth. (WIA sec. 136(b)(2).)
(b) After consultation with the representatives identified in WIA sections 136(i) and 502(b), the Departments of
Labor and Education will issue definitions for the performance indicators established under title I and title II of WIA. (WIA sec. 136 (b), (f) and (i).)
§ 666.110
May a Governor require additional indicators of performance?
Yes, Governors may develop additional indicators of performance for adults, youth and dislocated worker activities. These indicators must be included in the State Plan. (WIA sec. 136(b)(2)(C).)
§ 666.120
What are the procedures for negotiating annual levels of performance?
(a) We issue instructions on the specific information that must accompany the State Plan and that is used to review the State's expected levels of performance. The instructions may require that levels of performance for years two and three be expressed as a percentage improvement over the immediately preceding year's performance, consistent with the objective of continuous improvement.
(b) States must submit expected levels of performance for the required indicators for each of the first three program years covered by the Plan.
(c) The Secretary and the Governor must reach agreement on levels of performance for each core indicator and the customer satisfaction indicators. In negotiating these levels, the following must be taken into account:
(1) The expected levels of performance identified in the State Plan;
(2) The extent to which the levels of performance for each core indicator assist in achieving high customer satisfaction;
(3) The extent to which the levels of performance promote continuous improvement and ensure optimal return on the investment of Federal funds; and
(4) How the levels compare with those of other States, taking into account factors including differences in economic conditions, participant characteristics, and the proposed service mix and strategies.
(d) The levels of performance agreed to under paragraph (c) of this section will be the State's negotiated levels of performance for the first three years of the State Plan. These levels will be used to determine whether sanctions will be applied or incentive grant funds will be awarded.
(e) Before the fourth year of the State Plan, the Secretary and the Governor must reach agreement on levels of performance for each core indicator and the customer satisfaction indicators for the fourth and fifth years covered by the plan. In negotiating these levels, the factors listed in paragraph (c) of this section must be taken into account.
(f) The levels of performance agreed to under paragraph (e) of this section will be the State negotiated levels of performance for the fourth and fifth years of the plan and must be incorporated into the State Plan.
(g) Levels of performance for the additional indicators developed by the Governor, including additional indicators to demonstrate and measure continuous improvement toward goals identified by the State, are not part of the negotiations described in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section. (WIA sec. 136(b)(3).)
(h) State negotiated levels of performance may be revised in accordance with § 666.130.
§ 666.130
Under what conditions may a State or DOL request revisions to the State negotiated levels of performance?
(a) The DOL guidelines describe when and under what circumstances a Governor may request revisions to negotiated levels. These circumstances include significant changes in economic conditions, in the characteristics of participants entering the program, or in the services to be provided from when the initial plan was submitted and approved. (WIA sec. 136(b)(3)(A)(vi).)
(b) The guidelines will establish the circumstances under which a State will be required to submit revisions under specified circumstances.
§ 666.140
Which individuals receiving services are included in the core indicators of performance?
(a)(1) The core indicators of performance apply to all individuals who are registered under 20 CFR 663.105 and 664.215 for the adult, dislocated worker
and youth programs, except for those adults and dislocated workers who participate exclusively in self-service or informational activities. (WIA sec. 136(b)(2)(A).)
(2) Self-service and informational activities are those core services that are made available and accessible to the general public, that are designed to inform and educate individuals about the labor market and their employment strengths, weaknesses, and the range of services appropriate to their situation, and that do not require significant staff involvement with the individual in terms of resources or time.
(b) For registered participants, a standardized record that includes appropriate performance information must be maintained in accordance with WIA section 185(a)(3).
(c) Performance will be measured on the basis of results achieved by registered participants, and will reflect services provided under WIA title I, subtitle B programs for adults, dislocated workers and youth. Performance may also take into account services provided to participants by other One-Stop partner programs and activities, to the extent that the local MOU provides for the sharing of participant information.
§ 666.150
What responsibility do States have to use quarterly wage record information for performance accountability?
(a) States must, consistent with State laws, use quarterly wage record information in measuring the progress on State and local performance measures. In order to meet this requirement the use of social security numbers from registered participants and such other information as is necessary to measure the progress of those participants through quarterly wage record information is authorized.
(b) The State must include in the State Plan a description of the State's performance accountability system, and a description of the State's strategy for using quarterly wage record information to measure the progress on State and local performance measures. The description must identify the entities that may have access to quarterly wage record information for this purpose.
(c) “Quarterly wage record information” means information regarding wages paid to an individual, the social security account number (or numbers, if more than one) of the individual and the name, address, State, and (when known) the Federal employer identification number of the employer paying the wages to the individual. (WIA sec. 136(f)(2).)

# Subpart B—Incentives and Sanctions for State Performance
§ 666.200
Under what circumstances is a State eligible for an Incentive Grant?
A State is eligible to apply for an Incentive Grant if its performance for the immediately preceding year exceeds:
(a) The State's negotiated levels of performance for the required core indicators for the adult, dislocated worker and youth programs under title I of WIA as well as the customer satisfaction indicators for WIA title I programs;
(b) The adjusted levels of performance for title II Adult Education and Family Literacy programs; and
(c) The adjusted levels of performance under section 113 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
). (WIA sec. 503.)
§ 666.205
What are the time frames under which States submit performance progress reports and apply for incentive grants?
(a) State performance progress reports must be filed by the due date established in reporting instructions issued by the Department.
(b) Based upon the reports filed under paragraph (a) of this section, we will determine the amount of funds available, under WIA title I, to each eligible State for incentive grants, in accordance with the criteria of § 666.230. We will publish the award amounts for each eligible State, after consultation with the Secretary of Education, within ninety (90) days after the due date for performance progress reports established under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Within forty-five (45) days of the publication of award amounts under paragraph (b) of this section, States may apply for incentive grants in accordance with the requirements of § 666.220.
§ 666.210
How may Incentive Grant funds be used?
Incentive grant funds are awarded to States to carry out any one or more innovative programs under titles I or II of WIA or the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act, regardless of which Act is the source of the incentive funds. (WIA sec. 503(a).)
§ 666.220
What information must be included in a State Board's application for an Incentive Grant?
(a) After consultation with the Secretary of Education, we will issue instructions annually which will include the amount of funds available to be awarded for each State and provide instructions for submitting applications for an Incentive Grant.
(b) Each State desiring an incentive grant must submit to the Secretary an application, developed by the State Board, containing the following assurances:
(1) The State legislature was consulted regarding the development of the application.
(2) The application was approved by the Governor, the eligible agency (as defined in WIA section 203), and the State agency responsible for vocational and technical programs under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act.
(3) The State exceeded the State negotiated levels of performance for title I, the levels of performance under title II and the levels for vocational and technical programs under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act. (WIA sec. 503(b).)
§ 666.230
How does the Department determine the amounts for Incentive Grant awards?
(a) We determine the total amount to be allocated from funds available under WIA section 174(b) for Incentive Grants taking into consideration such factors as:
(1) The availability of funds under section 174(b) for technical assistance, demonstration and pilot projects, evaluations, and Incentive Grants and the needs for these activities;
(2) The number of States that are eligible for Incentive Grants and their relative program formula allocations under title I;
(3) The availability of funds under WIA section 136(g)(2) resulting from funds withheld for poor performance by States; and
(4) The range of awards established in WIA section 503(c).
(b) We will publish the award amount for eligible States, after consultation with the Secretary of Education, within 90 days after the due date, established under § 666.205(a), for the latest State performance progress report providing the annual information needed to determine State eligibility.
(c) In determining the amount available to an eligible State, the Secretary, with the Secretary of Education, may consider such factors as:
(1) The relative allocations of the eligible State compared to other States;
(2) The extent to which the negotiated levels of performance were exceeded;
(3) Performance improvement relative to previous years;
(4) Changes in economic conditions, participant characteristics and proposed service design since the negotiated levels of performance were agreed to;
(5) The eligible State's relative performance for each of the indicators compared to other States; and
(6) The performance on those indicators considered most important in terms of accomplishing national goals established by each of the respective Secretaries.
§ 666.240
Under what circumstances may a sanction be applied to a State that fails to achieve negotiated levels of performance for title I?
(a) If a State fails to meet the negotiated levels of performance agreed to under § 666.120 for core indicators of performance or customer satisfaction indicators for the adult, dislocated worker or youth programs under title I
of WIA, the Secretary must, upon request, provide technical assistance, as authorized under WIA sections 136(g) and 170.
(b) If a State fails to meet the negotiated levels of performance for core indicators of performance or customer satisfaction indicators for the same program in two successive years, the amount of the succeeding year's allocation for the applicable program may be reduced by up to five percent.
(c) The exact amount of any allocation reduction will be based upon the degree of failure to meet the negotiated levels of performance for core indicators. In making a determination of the amount, if any, of such a sanction, we may consider factors such as:
(1) The State's performance relative to other States;
(2) Improvement efforts underway;
(3) Incremental improvement on the performance measures;
(4) Technical assistance previously provided;
(5) Changes in economic conditions and program design;
(6) The characteristics of participants served compared to the participant characteristics described in the State Plan; and
(7) Performance on other core indicators of performance and customer satisfaction indicators for that program. (WIA sec. 136(g).)
(d) Only performance that is less than 80 percent of the negotiated levels will be deemed to be a failure to achieve negotiated levels of performance.
(e) In accordance with 20 CFR 667.300(e), a State grant may be reduced for failure to submit an annual performance progress report.
(f) A State may request review of a sanction we impose in accordance with the provisions of 20 CFR 667.800.

# Subpart C—Local Measures of Performance
§ 666.300
What performance indicators apply to local areas?
(a) Each local workforce investment area in a State is subject to the same core indicators of performance and the customer satisfaction indicators that apply to the State under § 666.100(a).
(b) In addition to the indicators described in paragraph (a) of this section, under § 666.110, the Governor may apply additional indicators of performance to local areas in the State. (WIA sec. 136(c)(1).)
§ 666.310
What levels of performance apply to the indicators of performance in local areas?
(a) The Local Board and the chief elected official must negotiate with the Governor and reach agreement on the local levels of performance for each indicator identified under § 666.300. The levels must be based on the State negotiated levels of performance established under § 666.120 and take into account the factors described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) In determining the appropriate local levels of performance, the Governor, Local Board and chief elected official must take into account specific economic, demographic and other characteristics of the populations to be served in the local area.
(c) The performance levels agreed to under paragraph (a) of this section must be incorporated in the local plan. (WIA secs. 118(b)(3) and 136(c).)

# Subpart D—Incentives and Sanctions for Local Performance
§ 666.400
Under what circumstances are local areas eligible for State Incentive Grants?
(a) States must use a portion of the funds reserved for Statewide workforce investment activities under WIA sections 128(a) and 133(a)(1) to provide Incentive Grants to local areas for regional cooperation among local boards (including local boards for a designated region, as described in WIA section 116(c)), for local coordination of activities carried out under this Act, and for exemplary performance on the local performance measures established under subpart C of this part.
(b) The amount of funds used for Incentive Grants under paragraph (a) of this section and the criteria used for determining exemplary local performance levels to qualify for the incentive grants are determined by the Governor. (WIA sec. 134(a)(2)(B)(iii).)
§ 666.410
How may local incentive awards be used?
The local incentive grant funds may be used for any activities allowed under WIA title I-B.
§ 666.420
Under what circumstances may a sanction be applied to local areas for poor performance?
(a) If a local area fails to meet the levels of performance agreed to under § 666.310 for the core indicators of performance or customer satisfaction indicators for a program in any program year, technical assistance must be provided. The technical assistance must be provided by the Governor with funds reserved for Statewide workforce investment activities under WIA sections 128(a) and 133(a)(1), or, upon the Governor's request, by the Secretary. The technical assistance may include the development of a performance improvement plan, a modified local plan, or other actions designed to assist the local area in improving performance.
(b) If a local area fails to meet the levels of performance agreed to under § 666.310 for the core indicators of performance or customer satisfaction indicators for a program for two consecutive program years, the Governor must take corrective actions. The corrective actions may include the development of a reorganization plan under which the Governor:
(1) Requires the appointment and certification of a new Local Board;
(2) Prohibits the use of particular service providers or One-Stop partners that have been identified as achieving poor levels of performance; or
(3) Requires other appropriate measures designed to improve the performance of the local area.
(c) A local area may appeal to the Governor to rescind or revise a reorganization plan imposed under paragraph (b) of this section not later than thirty (30) days after receiving notice of the plan. The Governor must make a final decision within 30 days after receipt of the appeal. The Governor's final decision may be appealed by the Local Board to the Secretary under 20 CFR 667.650(b) not later than thirty (30) days after the local area receives the decision. The decision by the Governor to impose a reorganization plan becomes effective at the time it is issued, and remains effective unless the Secretary rescinds or revises the reorganization plan. Upon receipt of the appeal from the local area, the Secretary must make a final decision within thirty (30) days. (WIA sec. 136(h).)
Pt. 667

# PART 667—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—Funding
Sec.
667.100
When do Workforce Investment Act grant funds become available?
667.105
What award document authorizes the expenditure of Workforce Investment Act funds under title I of the Act?
667.107
What is the period of availability for expenditure of WIA funds?
667.110
What is the Governor/Secretary Agreement?
667.120
What planning information must a State submit in order to receive a formula grant?
667.130
How are WIA title I formula funds allocated to local workforce investment areas?
667.135
What “hold harmless” provisions apply to WIA adult and youth allocations?
667.140
Does a Local Board have the authority to transfer funds between programs?
667.150
What reallotment procedures does the Secretary use?
667.160
What reallocation procedures must the Governors use?
667.170
What responsibility review does the Department conduct for awards made under WIA title I, subtitle D?

# Subpart B—Administrative Rules, Costs and Limitations
667.200
What general fiscal and administrative rules apply to the use of WIA title I funds?
667.210
What administrative cost limits apply to Workforce Investment Act title I grants?
667.220
What Workforce Investment Act title I functions and activities constitute the costs of administration subject to the administrative cost limit?
667.250
What requirements relate to the enforcement of the Military Selective Service Act?
667.255
Are there special rules that apply to veterans when income is a factor in eligibility determinations?
667.260
May WIA title I funds be spent for construction?
667.262
Are employment generating activities, or similar activities, allowable under WIA title I?
667.264
What other activities are prohibited under title I of WIA?
667.266
What are the limitations related to religious activities?
667.268
What prohibitions apply to the use of WIA title I funds to encourage business relocation?
667.269
What procedures and sanctions apply to violations of §§ 667.260 through 667.268?
667.270
What safeguards are there to ensure that participants in Workforce Investment Act employment and training activities do not displace other employees?
667.272
What wage and labor standards apply to participants in activities under title I of WIA?
667.274
What health and safety standards apply to the working conditions of participants in activities under title I of WIA?
667.275
What are a recipient's obligations to ensure nondiscrimination and equal opportunity, and what are a recipient's obligations with respect to religious activities?

# Subpart C—Reporting Requirements
667.300
What are the reporting requirements for Workforce Investment Act programs?

# Subpart D—Oversight and Monitoring
667.400
Who is responsible for oversight and monitoring of WIA title I grants?
667.410
What are the oversight roles and responsibilities of recipients and subrecipients?

# Subpart E—Resolution of Findings From Monitoring and Oversight Reviews
667.500
What procedures apply to the resolution of findings arising from audits, investigations, monitoring and oversight reviews?
667.505
How do we resolve investigative and monitoring findings?
667.510
What is the Grant Officer resolution process?

# Subpart F—Grievance Procedures, Complaints, and State Appeals Processes
667.600
What local area, State and direct recipient grievance procedures must be established?
667.610
What processes do we use to review State and local grievances and complaints?
667.630
How are complaints and reports of criminal fraud and abuse addressed under WIA?
667.640
What additional appeal processes or systems must a State have for the WIA program?
667.645
What procedures apply to the appeals of non-designation of local areas?
667.650
What procedures apply to the appeals of the Governor's imposition of sanctions for substantial violations or performance failures by a local area?

# Subpart G—Sanctions, Corrective Actions, and Waiver of Liability
667.700
What procedure do we use to impose sanctions and corrective actions on recipients and subrecipients of WIA grant funds?
667.705
Who is responsible for funds provided under title I of WIA?
667.710
What actions are required to address the failure of a local area to comply with the applicable uniform administrative provisions?
667.720
How do we handle a recipient's request for waiver of liability under WIA section 184(d)(2)?
667.730
What is the procedure to handle a recipient's request for advance approval of contemplated corrective actions?
667.740
What procedure must be used for administering the offset/deduction provisions at section 184(c) of the Act?

# Subpart H—Administrative Adjudication and Judicial Review
667.800
What actions of the Department may be appealed to the Office of Administrative Law Judges?
667.810
What rules of procedure apply to hearings conducted under this subpart?
667.820
What authority does the Administrative Law Judge have in ordering relief as an outcome of an administrative hearing?
667.825
What special rules apply to reviews of NFJP and WIA INA grant selections?
667.830
When will the Administrative Law Judge issue a decision?
667.840
Is there an alternative dispute resolution process that may be used in place of an OALJ hearing?
667.850
Is there judicial review of a final order of the Secretary issued under section 186 of the Act?
667.860
Are there other remedies available outside of the Act?

# Authority:
Subtitle C of Title I, Sec. 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220, 112 Stat. 936 (20 U.S.C. 9276(c)); Executive Order 13198, 66 FR 8497, 3 CFR 2001 Comp., p. 750; Executive Order 13279, 67 FR 77141, 3 CFR 2002 Comp., p. 258.

# Source:
65 FR 49421, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Funding
§ 667.100
When do Workforce Investment Act grant funds become available?
(a)
Program year.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, fiscal year appropriations for programs and activities carried out under title I of WIA are available for obligation on the basis of a program year. A program year begins on July 1 in the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made and ends on June 30 of the following year.
(b)
Youth fund availability.
Fiscal year appropriations for a program year's youth activities, authorized under chapter 4, subtitle B, title I of WIA, may be made available for obligation beginning on April 1 of the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made.
§ 667.105
What award document authorizes the expenditure of Workforce Investment Act funds under title I of the Act?
(a)
Agreement.
All WIA title I funds that are awarded by grant, contract or cooperative agreement are issued under an agreement between the Grant Officer/Contracting Officer and the recipient. The agreement describes the terms and conditions applicable to the award of WIA title I funds.
(b)
Grant funds awarded to States.
Under the Governor/Secretary Agreement described in § 667.110, each program year, the grant agreement described in paragraph (a) of this section will be executed and signed by the Governor or the Governor's designated representative and Secretary or the Grant Officer. The grant agreement and associated Notices of Obligation are the basis for Federal obligation of funds allotted to the States in accordance with WIA sections 127(b) and 132(b) for each program year.
(c)
Indian and Native American Programs.
(1) Awards of grants, contracts or cooperative agreements for the WIA Indian and Native American program will be made to eligible entities on a competitive basis every two program years for a two-year period, in accordance with the provisions of 20 CFR part 668. An award for the succeeding two-year period may be made to the same recipient on a non-competitive basis if the recipient:
(i) Has performed satisfactorily; and
(ii) Submits a satisfactory two-year program plan for the succeeding two-year grant, contract or agreement period.
(2) A grant, contract or cooperative agreement may be renewed under the authority of paragraph (c)(1) of this section no more than once during any four-year period for any single recipient.
(d)
National Farmworker Jobs programs.
(1) Awards of grants or contracts for the National Farmworker Jobs program will be made to eligible entities on a competitive basis every two program years for a two-year period, in accordance with the provisions of 20 CFR part 669. An award for the succeeding two-year period may be made to the same recipient if the recipient:
(i) Has performed satisfactorily; and
(ii) Submits a satisfactory two-year program plan for the succeeding two-year period.
(2) A grant or contract may be renewed under the authority of paragraph (d)(1) of this section no more than once during any four-year period for any single recipient.
(e)
Job Corps.
(1) Awards of contracts will be made on a competitive basis between the Contracting Officer and eligible entities to operate contract centers and provide operational support services.
(2) The Secretary may enter into interagency agreements with Federal agencies for funding, establishment, and operation of Civilian Conservation Centers for Job Corps programs.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Awards under WIA sections 171 and 172.
(1) Awards of grants, contracts or cooperative agreements will be made to eligible entities for programs or activities authorized under WIA sections 171 or 172. These funds are for:
(i) Demonstration;
(ii) Pilot;
(iii) Multi-service;
(iv) Research;
(v) Multi-State projects; and
(vi) Evaluations
(2) Grants and contracts under paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section
will be awarded on a competitive basis, except that a noncompetitive award may be made in the case of a project that is funded jointly with other public or private entities that provide a portion of the funding.
(3) Contracts and grants under paragraphs (g)(1)(iii), (iv), and (v) of this section in amounts that exceed $100,000 will be awarded on a competitive basis, except that a noncompetitive award may be made in the case of a project that is funded jointly with other public or private sector entities that provide a substantial portion of the assistance under the grant or contract for the project.
(4) Grants or contracts for carrying out projects in paragraphs (g)(1)(iii), (iv), and (v) of this section may not be awarded to the same organization for more than three consecutive years, unless the project is competitively reevaluated within that period.
(5) Entities with nationally recognized expertise in the methods, techniques and knowledge of workforce investment activities will be provided priority in awarding contracts or grants for the projects under paragraphs (g)(1)(iii), (iv), and (v) of this section.
(6) A peer review process will be used for projects under paragraphs (g)(1)(iii), (iv), and (v) of this section for grants that exceed $500,000, and to designate exemplary and promising programs.
(h)
Termination.
Each grant terminates when the period of fund availability has expired. The grant must be closed in accordance with the closeout provisions at 29 CFR 95.71 or 97.50, as appropriate.
[65 FR 49421, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 35525, June 21, 2006]
§ 667.107
What is the period of availability for expenditure of WIA funds?
(a)
Grant funds expended by States.
Funds allotted to States under WIA sections 127(b) and 132(b) for any program year are available for expenditure by the State receiving the funds only during that program year and the two succeeding program years.
(b)
Grant funds expended by local areas.
(1) Funds allocated by a State to a local area under WIA sections 128(b) and 133(b), for any program year are available for expenditure only during that program year and the succeeding program year.
(2) Funds which are not expended by a local area in the two-year period described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, must be returned to the State. Funds so returned are available for expenditure by State and local recipients and subrecipients only during the third program year of availability. These funds may:
(i) Be used for Statewide projects, or
(ii) Be distributed to other local areas which had fully expended their allocation of funds for the same program year within the two-year period.
(c)
Job Corps.
Funds obligated for any program year for any Job Corps activity carried out under title I, subtitle C, of WIA may be expended during that program year and the two succeeding program years.
(d)
Funds awarded under WIA sections 171 and 172.
Funds obligated for any program year for a program or activity authorized under sections 171 or 172 of WIA remain available until expended.
(e)
Other programs under title I of WIA.
For all other grants, contracts and cooperative agreements issued under title I of WIA the period of availability for expenditure is set in the terms and conditions of the award document.
§ 667.110
What is the Governor/Secretary Agreement?
(a) To establish a continuing relationship under the Act, the Governor and the Secretary will enter into a Governor/Secretary Agreement. The Agreement will consist of a statement assuring that the State will comply with:
(1) The Workforce Investment Act and all applicable rules and regulations, and
(2) The Wagner-Peyser Act and all applicable rules and regulations.
(b) The Governor/Secretary Agreement may be modified, revised or terminated at any time, upon the agreement of both parties.
§ 667.120
What planning information must a State submit in order to receive a formula grant?
Each State seeking financial assistance under WIA sections 127 (youth) or 132 (adults and dislocated workers) or under the Wagner-Peyser Act must submit a single State Plan. The requirements for the plan content and the plan review process are described in WIA section 112, Wagner-Peyser Act section 8, and 20 CFR 661.220, 661.240 and 652.211 through 652.214.
§ 667.130
How are WIA title I formula funds allocated to local workforce investment areas?
(a)
General.
The Governor must allocate WIA formula funds allotted for services to youth, adults and dislocated workers in accordance with WIA sections 128 and 133, and this section.
(1) State Boards must assist Governors in the development of any discretionary within-State allocation formulas. (WIA sec. 111(d)(5).)
(2) Within-State allocations must be made:
(i) In accordance with the allocation formulas contained in WIA sections 128(b) and 133(b) and in the State workforce investment plan, and
(ii) After consultation with chief elected officials in each of the workforce investment areas.
(b)
State reserve.
(1) Of the WIA formula funds allotted for services to youth, adults and dislocated workers, the Governor must reserve funds from each of these sources for Statewide workforce investment activities. In making these reservations, the Governor may reserve up to fifteen (15) percent from each of these sources. Funds reserved under this paragraph may be combined and spent on Statewide employment and training activities, for adults and dislocated workers, and Statewide youth activities, as described in 20 CFR 665.200 and 665.210, without regard to the funding source of the reserved funds.
(2) The Governor must reserve a portion of the dislocated worker funds for Statewide rapid response activities, as described in WIA section 134(a)(2)(A) and 20 CFR 665.310 through 665.330. In making this reservation, the Governor may reserve up to twenty-five (25) percent of the dislocated worker funds.
(c)
Youth allocation formula.
(1) Unless the Governor elects to distribute funds in accordance with the discretionary allocation formula described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the remainder of youth funds not reserved under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be allocated:
(i) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in each workforce investment area, compared to the total number of unemployed individuals in all areas of substantial unemployment in the State;
(ii) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative excess number of unemployed individuals in each workforce investment area, compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in the State; and
(iii) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative number of disadvantaged youth in each workforce investment area, compared to the total number of disadvantaged youth in the State. (WIA sec. 128(b)(2)(A)(i))
(2)
Discretionary youth allocation formula.
In lieu of making the formula allocation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the State may allocate youth funds under a discretionary formula. Under that formula, the State must allocate a minimum of 70 percent of youth funds not reserved under paragraph (b)(1) of this section on the basis of the formula in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and may allocate up to 30 percent on the basis of a formula that:
(i) Incorporates additional factors (other than the factors described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) relating to:
(A) Excess youth poverty in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and
(B) Excess unemployment above the State average in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and
(ii) Was developed by the State Board and approved by the Secretary of Labor as part of the State workforce investment plan. (WIA sec. 128(b)(3).)
(d)
Adult allocation formula.
(1) Unless the Governor elects to distribute funds in accordance with the discretionary
allocation formula described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the remainder of adult funds not reserved under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be allocated:
(i) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in each workforce investment area, compared to the total number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in the State;
(ii) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative excess number of unemployed individuals in each workforce investment area, compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in the State; and
(iii) 33
1/3
percent on the basis of the relative number of disadvantaged adults in each workforce investment area, compared to the total number of disadvantaged adults in the State. (WIA sec. 133(b)(2)(A)(i))
(2)
Discretionary adult allocation formula.
In lieu of making the formula allocation described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the State may allocate adult funds under a discretionary formula. Under that formula, the State must allocate a minimum of 70 percent of adult funds on the basis of the formula in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and may allocate up to 30 percent on the basis of a formula that:
(i) Incorporates additional factors (other than the factors described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) relating to:
(A) Excess poverty in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and
(B) Excess unemployment above the State average in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and
(ii) Was developed by the State Board and approved by the Secretary of Labor as part of the State workforce investment plan. (WIA sec. 133(b)(3).)
(e)
Dislocated worker allocation formula.
(1) The remainder of dislocated worker funds not reserved under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section must be allocated on the basis of a formula prescribed by the Governor that distributes funds in a manner that addresses the State's worker readjustment assistance needs. Funds so distributed must not be less than 60 percent of the State's formula allotment.
(2)(i) The Governor's dislocated worker formula must use the most appropriate information available to the Governor, including information on:
(A) Insured unemployment data,
(B) Unemployment concentrations,
(C) Plant closings and mass layoff data,
(D) Declining industries data,
(E) Farmer-rancher economic hardship data, and
(F) Long-term unemployment data.
(ii) The State Plan must describe the data used for the formula and the weights assigned, and explain the State's decision to use other information or to omit any of the information sources set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.
(3) The Governor may not amend the dislocated worker formula more than once for any program year.
(4)(i) Dislocated worker funds initially reserved by the Governor for Statewide rapid response activities in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be:
(A) Distributed to local areas, and
(B) Used to operate projects in local areas in accordance with the requirements of WIA section 134(a)(2)(A) and 20 CFR 665.310 through 665.330.
(ii) The State Plan must describe the procedures for any distribution to local areas, including the timing and process for determining whether a distribution will take place.
§ 667.135
What “hold harmless” provisions apply to WIA adult and youth allocations?
(a)(1) For the first two fiscal years after the date on which a local area is designated under section 116 of WIA, the State may elect to apply the “hold harmless” provisions specified in paragraph (b) of this section to local area allocations of WIA youth funds under § 667.130(c) and to allocations of WIA adult funds under § 667.130(d).
(2) Effective at the end of the second full fiscal year after the date on which a local area is designated under section 116 of WIA the State must apply the “hold harmless” specified in paragraph (b) of this section to local area allocations of WIA youth funds under § 667.130(c) and to allocations of WIA adult funds under § 667.130(d).
(3) There are no “hold harmless” provisions that apply to local area allocations of WIA dislocated worker funds.
(b)(1) If a State elects to apply a “hold-harmless” under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a local area must not receive an allocation amount for a fiscal year that is less than 90 percent of the average allocation of the local area for the two preceding fiscal years.
(2) In applying the “hold harmless” under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a local area must not receive an allocation amount for a fiscal year that is less than 90 percent of the average allocation of the local area for the two preceding fiscal years.
(3) Amounts necessary to increase allocations to local areas must be obtained by ratably reducing the allocations to be made to other local areas.
(4) If the amounts of WIA funds appropriated in a fiscal year are not sufficient to provide the amount specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to all local areas, the amounts allocated to each local area mustbe ratably reduced. (WIA secs. 128(b)(2)(A)(ii), 133(b)(2)(A)(ii), 506.)
§ 667.140
Does a Local Board have the authority to transfer funds between programs?
(a) A Local Board may transfer up to 20 percent of a program year allocation for adult employment and training activities, and up to 20 percent of a program year allocation for dislocated worker employment and training activities between the two programs.
(b) Before making any such transfer, a Local Board must obtain the Governor's approval.
(c) Local Boards may not transfer funds to or from the youth program.
§ 667.150
What reallotment procedures does the Secretary use?
(a) The first reallotment of funds among States will occur during PY 2001 based on obligations in PY 2000.
(b) The Secretary determines, during the first quarter of the program year, whether a State has obligated its required level of at least 80 percent of the funds allotted under WIA sections 127 and 132 for programs serving youth, adults, and dislocated workers for the prior year, as separately determined for each of the three funding streams. Unobligated balances are determined based on allotments adjusted for any allowable transfer between the adult and dislocated worker funding streams. The amount to be recaptured from each State for reallotment, if any, is based on State obligations of the funds allotted to each State under WIA sections 127 and 132 for programs serving youth, adults, or dislocated workers, less any amount reserved (up to 5 percent at the State level and up to 10 percent at the local level) for the costs of administration. This amount, if any, is separately determined for each funding stream.
(c) The Secretary reallots youth, adult and dislocated worker funds among eligible States in accordance with the provisions of WIA sections 127(c) and 132(c), respectively. To be eligible to receive a reallotment of youth, adult, or dislocated worker funds under the reallotment procedures, a State must have obligated at least 80 percent of the prior program year's allotment, less any amount reserved for the costs of administration of youth, adult, or dislocated worker funds. A State's eligibility to receive a reallotment is separately determined for each funding stream.
(d) The term “obligation” is defined at 20 CFR 660.300. For purposes of this section, the Secretary will also treat as State obligations:
(1) Amounts allocated by the State, under WIA sections 128(b) and 133(b), to the single State local area if the State has been designated as a single local area under WIA section 116(b) or to a balance of State local area administered by a unit of the State government, and
(2) Inter-agency transfers and other actions treated by the State as encumbrances against amounts reserved by the State under WIA sections 128(a) and 133(a) for Statewide workforce investment activities.
§ 667.160
What reallocation procedures must the Governors use?
(a) The Governor may reallocate youth, adult, and dislocated worker funds among local areas within the State in accordance with the provisions of sections 128(c) and 133(c) of the
Act. If the Governor chooses to reallocate funds, the provisions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply.
(b) For the youth, adult and dislocated worker programs, the amount to be recaptured from each local area for purposes of reallocation, if any, must be based on the amount by which the prior year's unobligated balance of allocated funds exceeds 20 percent of that year's allocation for the program, less any amount reserved (up to 10 percent) for the costs of administration. Unobligated balances must be determined based on allocations adjusted for any allowable transfer between funding streams. This amount, if any, must be separately determined for each funding stream.
(c) To be eligible to receive youth, adult or dislocated worker funds under the reallocation procedures, a local area must have obligated at least 80 percent of the prior program year's allocation, less any amount reserved (up to 10 percent) for the costs of administration, for youth, adult, or dislocated worker activities, as separately determined. A local area's eligibility to receive a reallocation must be separately determined for each funding stream.
§ 667.170
What responsibility review does the Department conduct for awards made under WIA title I, subtitle D?
(a) Before final selection as a potential grantee, we conduct a review of the available records to assess the organization's overall responsibility to administer Federal funds. As part of this review, we may consider any information that has come to our attention and will consider the organization's history with regard to the management of other grants, including DOL grants. The failure to meet any one responsibility test, except for those listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, does not establish that the organization is not responsible unless the failure is substantial or persistent (for two or more consecutive years). The responsibility tests include:
(1) The organization's efforts to recover debts (for which three demand letters have been sent) established by final agency action have been unsuccessful, or that there has been failure to comply with an approved repayment plan;
(2) Established fraud or criminal activity of a significant nature within the organization.
(3) Serious administrative deficiencies that we identify, such as failure to maintain a financial management system as required by Federal regulations;
(4) Willful obstruction of the audit process;
(5) Failure to provide services to applicants as agreed to in a current or recent grant or to meet applicable performance standards;
(6) Failure to correct deficiencies brought to the grantee's attention in writing as a result of monitoring activities, reviews, assessments, or other activities;
(7) Failure to return a grant closeout package or outstanding advances within 90 days of the grant expiration date or receipt of closeout package, whichever is later, unless an extension has been requested and granted; final billings reflecting serious cost category or total budget cost overrun;
(8) Failure to submit required reports;
(9) Failure to properly report and dispose of government property as instructed by DOL;
(10) Failure to have maintained effective cash management or cost controls resulting in excess cash on hand;
(11) Failure to ensure that a subrecipient complies with its OMB Circular A-133 audit requirements specified at § 667.200(b);
(12) Failure to audit a subrecipient within the required period;
(13) Final disallowed costs in excess of five percent of the grant or contract award if, in the judgement of the grant officer, the disallowances are egregious findings and;
(14) Failure to establish a mechanism to resolve a subrecipient's audit in a timely fashion.
(b) This responsibility review is independent of the competitive process. Applicants which are determined to be not responsible will not be selected as potential grantees irrespective of their standing in the competition.

# Subpart B—Administrative Rules, Costs and Limitations
§ 667.200
What general fiscal and administrative rules apply to the use of WIA title I funds?
(a)
Uniform fiscal and administrative requirements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) through (6) of this section, State, local, and Indian tribal government organizations that receive grants or cooperative agreements under WIA title I must follow the common rule “Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments” which is codified at 29 CFR part 97.
(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) through (7) of this section, institutions of higher education, hospitals, other non-profit organizations, and commercial organizations must the follow the common rule implementing OMB Circular A-110 which is codified at 2 CFR part 215 and 29 CFR part 95.
(3) In addition to the requirements at 29 CFR 95.48 or 29 CFR 97.36(i) (as appropriate), all procurement contracts and other transactions between Local Boards and units of State or local governments must be conducted only on a cost reimbursement basis. No provision for profit is allowed. (WIA sec. 184(a)(3)(B).)
(4) In addition to the requirements at 29 CFR 95.42 or 29 CFR 97.36(b)(3) (as appropriate), which address codes of conduct and conflict of interest issues related to employees:
(i) A State Board member or a Local Board member or a Youth Council member must neither cast a vote on, nor participate in any decision-making capacity, on the provision of services by such member (or any organization which that member directly represents), nor on any matter which would provide any direct financial benefit to that member or a member of his immediate family.
(ii) Neither membership on the State Board, the Local Board, the Youth Council nor the receipt of WIA funds to provide training and related services, by itself, violates these conflict of interest provisions.
(5) The addition method, described at 29 CFR 95.24 or 29 CFR 97.25(g)(2) (as appropriate), must be used for the all program income earned under WIA title I grants. When the cost of generating program income has been charged to the program, the gross amount earned must be added to the WIA program. However, the cost of generating program income must be subtracted from the amount earned to establish the net amount of program income available for use under the grants when these costs have not been charged to the WIA program.
(6) Any excess of revenue over costs incurred for services provided by a governmental or non-profit entity must be included in program income. (WIA sec. 195(7)(A) and (B).)
(7) Interest income earned on funds received under WIA title I must be included in program income. (WIA sec. 195(7)(B)(iii).)
(8) On a fee-for-service basis, employers may use local area services, facilities, or equipment funded under title I of WIA to provide employment and training activities to incumbent workers:
(i) When the services, facilities, or equipment are not being used by eligible participants;
(ii) If their use does not affect the ability of eligible participants to use the services, facilities, or equipment; and
(iii) If the income generated from such fees is used to carry out programs authorized under this title.
(b)
Audit requirements.
(1) All governmental and non-profit organizations must follow the audit requirements of OMB Circular A-133. These requirements are found at 29 CFR 97.26 for governmental organizations and at 29 CFR 95.26 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations.
(2)(i) We are responsible for audits of commercial organizations which are direct recipients of Federal financial assistance under WIA title I.
(ii) Commercial organizations which are subrecipients under WIA title I and which expend more than the minimum level specified in OMB Circular A-133 ($300,000 ($500,000 for years ending after December 21, 2003)) must have either an organization-wide audit conducted in accordance with A-133 or a program
specific financial and compliance audit.
(c)
Allowable costs/cost principles.
All recipients and subrecipients must follow the Federal allowable cost principles that apply to their kind of organizations. The DOL regulations at 29 CFR 95.27 and 29 CFR 97.22 identify the Federal principles for determining allowable costs which each kind of recipient and subrecipient must follow. The applicable Federal principles for each kind of recipient are described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section; all recipients must comply with paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) of this section. For those selected items of cost requiring prior approval, the authority to grant or deny approval is delegated to the Governor for programs funded under sections 127 or 132 of the Act.
(1) Allowable costs for State, local, and Indian tribal government organizations must be determined under OMB Circular A-87, “Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments.”
(2) Allowable costs for non-profit organizations must be determined under OMB Circular A-122, “Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations.”
(3) Allowable costs for institutions of higher education must be determined under OMB Circular A-21, “Cost Principles for Educational Institutions.”
(4) Allowable costs for hospitals must be determined in accordance under appendix E of 45 CFR part 74, “Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals.”
(5) Allowable costs for commercial organizations and those non-profit organizations listed in Attachment C to OMB Circular A-122 must be determined under the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), at 48 CFR part 31.
(6) For all types of entities, legal expenses for the prosecution of claims against the Federal Government, including appeals to an Administrative Law Judge, are unallowable.
(d)
Government-wide debarment and suspension, and government-wide drug-free workplace requirements.
All WIA title I grant recipients and subrecipients must comply with the government-wide requirements for debarment and suspension, and the government-wide requirements for a drug-free workplace, codified at 29 CFR part 98.
(e)
Restrictions on lobbying.
All WIA title I grant recipients and subrecipients must comply with the restrictions on lobbying which are codified in the DOL regulations at 29 CFR part 93.
(f)
Nondiscrimination.
All WIA title I recipients, as the term is defined in 29 CFR 37.4, must comply with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIA section 188 and its implementing regulations found at 29 CFR part 37. Information on the handling of discrimination complaints by participants and other interested parties may be found in 29 CFR 37.70 through 37.80, and in § 667.600(g).
(g)
Nepotism.
(1) No individual may be placed in a WIA employment activity if a member of that person's immediate family is directly supervised by or directly supervises that individual.
(2) To the extent that an applicable State or local legal requirement regarding nepotism is more restrictive than this provision, such State or local requirement must be followed.
[65 FR 49421, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 35523, June 21, 2006]
§ 667.210
What administrative cost limits apply to Workforce Investment Act title I grants?
(a) Formula grants to States:
(1) As part of the 15 percent that a State may reserve for Statewide activities, the State may spend up to five percent (5%) of the amount allotted under sections 127(b)(1), 132(b)(1) and 132(b)(2) of the Act for the administrative costs of Statewide workforce investment activities.
(2) Local area expenditures for administrative purposes under WIA formula grants are limited to no more than ten percent (10%) of the amount allocated to the local area under sections 128(b) and 133(b) of the Act.
(3) Neither the five percent (5%) of the amount allotted that may be reserved for Statewide administrative costs nor the ten percent (10%) of the amount allotted that may be reserved for local administrative costs needs to be allocated back to the individual funding streams.
(b) Limits on administrative costs for programs operated under subtitle D of title I will be identified in the grant or contract award document.
(c) In a One-Stop environment, administrative costs borne by other sources of funds, such as the Wagner-Peyser Act, are not included in the administrative cost limit calculation. Each program's administrative activities area chargeable to its own grant and subject to its own administrative cost limitations.
§ 667.220
What Workforce Investment Act title I functions and activities constitute the costs of administration subject to the administrative cost limit?
(a) The costs of administration are that allocable portion of necessary and reasonable allowable costs of State and local workforce investment boards, direct recipients, including State grant recipients under subtitle B of title I and recipients of awards under subtitle D of title I, as well as local grant recipients, local grant subrecipients, local fiscal agents and one-stop operators that are associated with those specific functions identified in paragraph (b) of this section and which are not related to the direct provision of workforce investment services, including services to participants and employers. These costs can be both personnel and non-personnel and both direct and indirect.
(b) The costs of administration are the costs associated with performing the following functions:
(1) Performing the following overall general administrative functions and coordination of those functions under WIA title I:
(i) Accounting, budgeting, financial and cash management functions;
(ii) Procurement and purchasing functions;
(iii) Property management functions;
(iv) Personnel management functions;
(v) Payroll functions;
(vi) Coordinating the resolution of findings arising from audits, reviews, investigations and incident reports;
(vii) Audit functions;
(viii) General legal services functions; and
(ix) Developing systems and procedures, including information systems, required for these administrative functions;
(2) Performing oversight and monitoring responsibilities related to WIA administrative functions;
(3) Costs of goods and services required for administrative functions of the program, including goods and services such as rental or purchase of equipment, utilities, office supplies, postage, and rental and maintenance of office space;
(4) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out administrative activities or the overall management of the WIA system; and
(5) Costs of information systems related to administrative functions (for example, personnel, procurement, purchasing, property management, accounting and payroll systems) including the purchase, systems development and operating costs of such systems.
(c)(1) Awards to subrecipients or vendors that are solely for the performance of administrative functions are classified as administrative costs.
(2) Personnel and related non-personnel costs of staff who perform both administrative functions specified in paragraph (b) of this section and programmatic services or activities must be allocated as administrative or program costs to the benefitting cost objectives/categories based on documented distributions of actual time worked or other equitable cost allocation methods.
(3) Specific costs charged to an overhead or indirect cost pool that can be identified directly as a program cost are to be charged as a program cost. Documentation of such charges must be maintained.
(4) Except as provided at paragraph (c)(1), all costs incurred for functions and activities of subrecipients and vendors are program costs.
(5) Costs of the following information systems including the purchase, systems development and operating (e.g., data entry) costs are charged to the program category:
(i) Tracking or monitoring of participant and performance information;
(ii) Employment statistics information, including job listing information,
job skills information, and demand occupation information;
(iii) Performance and program cost information on eligible providers of training services, youth activities, and appropriate education activities;
(iv) Local area performance information; and
(v) Information relating to supportive services and unemployment insurance claims for program participants;
(6) Continuous improvement activities are charged to administration or program category based on the purpose or nature of the activity to be improved. Documentation of such charges must be maintained.
§ 667.250
What requirements relate to the enforcement of the Military Selective Service Act?
The requirements relating to the enforcement of the Military Selective Service Act are found at WIA section 189(h).
§ 667.255
Are there special rules that apply to veterans when income is a factor in eligibility determinations?
Yes, under 38 U.S.C. 4213, when past income is an eligibility determinant for Federal employment or training programs, any amounts received as military pay or allowances by any person who served on active duty, and certain other specified benefits must be disregarded. This applies when determining if a person is a “low-income individual” for eligibility purposes, (for example, in the WIA youth, Job Corps, or NFJP programs) and applies if income is used as a factor in applying the priority provision, under 20 CFR 663.600, when WIA adult funds are limited. Questions regarding the application of 38 U.S.C. 4213 should be directed to the Veterans Employment and Training Service.
§ 667.260
May WIA title I funds be spent for construction?
WIA title I funds must not be spent on construction or purchase of facilities or buildings except:
(a) To meet a recipient's, as the term is defined in 29 CFR 37.4, obligation to provide physical and programmatic accessibility and reasonable accommodation, as required by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended;
(b) To fund repairs, renovations, alterations and capital improvements of property, including:
(1) SESA real property, identified at WIA section 193, using a formula that assesses costs proportionate to space utilized;
(2) JTPA owned property which is transferred to WIA title I programs;
(c) Job Corps facilities, as authorized by WIA section 160(3)(B); and
(d) To fund disaster relief employment on projects for demolition, cleaning, repair, renovation, and reconstruction of damaged and destroyed structures, facilities, and lands located within a disaster area. (WIA sec. 173(d).)
§ 667.262
Are employment generating activities, or similar activities, allowable under WIA title I?
(a) Under WIA section 181(e), WIA title I funds may not be spent on employment generating activities, economic development, and other similar activities, unless they are directly related to training for eligible individuals. For purposes of this section, employer outreach and job development activities are directly related to training for eligible individuals.
(b) These employer outreach and job development activities include:
(1) Contacts with potential employers for the purpose of placement of WIA participants;
(2) Participation in business associations (such as chambers of commerce); joint labor management committees, labor associations, and resource centers;
(3) WIA staff participation on economic development boards and commissions, and work with economic development agencies, to:
(i) Provide information about WIA programs,
(ii) Assist in making informed decisions about community job training needs, and
(iii) Promote the use of first source hiring agreements and enterprise zone vouchering services,
(4) Active participation in local business resource centers (incubators) to provide technical assistance to small and new business to reduce the rate of business failure;
(5) Subscriptions to relevant publications;
(6) General dissemination of information on WIA programs and activities;
(7) The conduct of labor market surveys;
(8) The development of on-the-job training opportunities; and
(9) Other allowable WIA activities in the private sector. (WIA sec. 181(e).)
§ 667.264
What other activities are prohibited under title I of WIA?
(a) WIA title I funds must not be spent on:
(1) The wages of incumbent employees during their participation in economic development activities provided through a Statewide workforce investment system, (WIA sec. 181(b)(1).);
(2) Public service employment, except to provide disaster relief employment, as specifically authorized in section 173(d) of WIA, (WIA sec. 195(10));
(3) Expenses prohibited under any other Federal, State or local law or regulation.
(b) WIA formula funds available to States and local areas under subtitle B, title I of WIA must not be used for foreign travel. (WIA sec. 181(e).)
§ 667.266
What are the limitations related to religious activities?
(a) Limitations related to sectarian activities are set forth at WIA section 188(a)(3) and 29 CFR 37.6(f).
(b)(1) 29 CFR part 2, subpart D governs the circumstances under which DOL support, including WIA Title I financial assistance, may be used to employ or train participants in religious activities. Under that subpart, such assistance may be used for such employment or training only when the assistance is provided indirectly within the meaning of the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution, and not when the assistance is provided directly. As explained in that subpart, assistance provided through an Individual Training Account is generally considered indirect, and other mechanisms may also be considered indirect.
See also
20 CFR 667.275 and 29 CFR 37.6(f)(1). 29 CFR part 2, subpart D also contains requirements related to equal treatment in Department of Labor programs for religious organizations, and to protecting the religious liberty of Department of Labor social service providers and beneficiaries.
(2) Limitations on the employment of participants under WIA Title I to carry out the construction, operation, or maintenance of any part of any facility used or to be used for religious instruction or as a place for religious worship are described at 29 CFR 37.6(f)(2).
[65 FR 49421, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 41891, July 12, 2004]
§ 667.268
What prohibitions apply to the use of WIA title I funds to encourage business relocation?
(a) WIA funds may not be used or proposed to be used for:
(1) The encouragement or inducement of a business, or part of a business, to relocate from any location in the United States, if the relocation results in any employee losing his or her job at the original location;
(2) Customized training, skill training, or on-the-job training or company specific assessments of job applicants or employees of a business or a part of a business that has relocated from any location in the United States, until the company has operated at that location for 120 days, if the relocation has resulted in any employee losing his or her jobs at the original location.
(b)
Pre-award review.
To verify that an establishment which is new or expanding is not, in fact, relocating employment from another area, standardized pre-award review criteria developed by the State must be completed and documented jointly by the local area with the establishment as a prerequisite to WIA assistance.
(1) The review must include names under which the establishment does business, including predecessors and successors in interest; the name, title, and address of the company official certifying the information, and whether WIA assistance is sought in connection with past or impending job losses at other facilities, including a review of whether WARN notices relating to the employer have been filed.
(2) The review may include consultations with labor organizations and others in the affected local area(s). (WIA sec. 181(d).)
§ 667.269
What procedures and sanctions apply to violations of §§ 667.260 through 667.268?
(a) We will promptly review and take appropriate action on alleged violations of the provisions relating to:
(1) Employment generating activities (§ 667.262);
(2) Other prohibited activities (§ 667.264);
(3) The limitation related to sectarian activities (§ 667.266);
(4) The use of WIA title I funds to encourage business relocation (§ 667.268).
(b) Procedures for the investigation and resolution of the violations are provided for under the Grant Officer's resolution process at § 667.510. Sanctions and remedies are provided for under WIA section 184(c) for violations of the provisions relating to:
(1) Construction (§ 667.260);
(2) Employment generating activities (§ 667.262);
(3) Other prohibited activities (§ 667.264); and
(4) The limitation related to sectarian activities (§ 667.266(b)(1)).
(c) Sanctions and remedies are provided for in WIA section 181(d)(3) for violations of § 667.268, which addresses business relocation.
(d) Violations of § 667.266(b)(2) will be handled in accordance with the DOL nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIA section 188, codified at 29 CFR part 37.
§ 667.270
What safeguards are there to ensure that participants in Workforce Investment Act employment and training activities do not displace other employees?
(a) A participant in a program or activity authorized under title I of WIA must not displace (including a partial displacement, such as a reduction in the hours of non-overtime work, wages, or employment benefits) any currently employed employee (as of the date of the participation).
(b) A program or activity authorized under title I of WIA must not impair existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements. When a program or activity authorized under title I of WIA would be inconsistent with a collective bargaining agreement, the appropriate labor organization and employer must provide written concurrence before the program or activity begins.
(c) A participant in a program or activity under title I of WIA may not be employed in or assigned to a job if:
(1) Any other individual is on layoff from the same or any substantially equivalent job;
(2) The employer has terminated the employment of any regular, unsubsidized employee or otherwise caused an involuntary reduction in its workforce with the intention of filling the vacancy so created with the WIA participant; or
(3) The job is created in a promotional line that infringes in any way on the promotional opportunities of currently employed workers.
(d) Regular employees and program participants alleging displacement may file a complaint under the applicable grievance procedures found at § 667.600. (WIA sec. 181.)
§ 667.272
What wage and labor standards apply to participants in activities under title I of WIA?
(a) Individuals in on-the-job training or individuals employed in activities under title I of WIA must be compensated at the same rates, including periodic increases, as trainees or employees who are similarly situated in similar occupations by the same employer and who have similar training, experience and skills. Such rates must be in accordance with applicable law, but may not be less than the higher of the rate specified in section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) or the applicable State or local minimum wage law.
(b) Individuals in on-the-job training or individuals employed in programs and activities under Title I of WIA must be provided benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other trainees or employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work.
(c) Allowances, earnings, and payments to individuals participating in programs under Title I of WIA are not
considered as income for purposes of determining eligibility for and the amount of income transfer and in-kind aid furnished under any Federal or Federally assisted program based on need other than as provided under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
). (WIA sec. 181(a)(2).)
§ 667.274
What health and safety standards apply to the working conditions of participants in activities under title I of WIA?
(a) Health and safety standards established under Federal and State law otherwise applicable to working conditions of employees are equally applicable to working conditions of participants engaged in programs and activities under Title I of WIA.
(b)(1) To the extent that a State workers' compensation law applies, workers' compensation must be provided to participants in programs and activities under Title I of WIA on the same basis as the compensation is provided to other individuals in the State in similar employment.
(2) If a State workers' compensation law applies to a participant in work experience, workers' compensation benefits must be available for injuries suffered by the participant in such work experience. If a State workers' compensation law does not apply to a participant in work experience, insurance coverage must be secured for injuries suffered by the participant in the course of such work experience.
§ 667.275
What are a recipient's obligations to ensure nondiscrimination and equal opportunity, and what are a recipient's obligations with respect to religious activities?
(a)(1) Recipients, as defined in 29 CFR 37.4, must comply with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIA section 188 and its implementing regulations, codified at 29 CFR part 37. Under that definition, the term “recipients” includes State and Local Workforce Investment Boards, One-Stop operators, service providers, vendors, and subrecipients, as well as other types of individuals and entitites.
(2) Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements and procedures, including complaint processing and compliance reviews, are governed by the regulations implementing WIA section 188, codified at 29 CFR part 37, and are administered and enforced by the DOL Civil Rights Center.
(3) As described in § 667.260(a), financial assistance provided under WIA title I may be used to meet a recipient's obligation to provide physical and programmatic accessibility and reasonable accommodation/modification in regard to the WIA program, as required by section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, section 188 of WIA, and the regulations implementing these statutory provisions.
(b) 29 CFR part 2, subpart D governs the circumstances under which recipients may use DOL support, including WIA Title I financial assistance, to employ or train participants in religious activities. Under that subpart, such assistance may be used for such employment or training only when the assistance is provided indirectly within the meaning of the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution, and not when the assistance is provided directly. As explained in that subpart, assistance provided through an Individual Training Account is generally considered indirect, and other mechanisms may also be considered indirect.
See also
20 CFR 667.266 and 29 CFR 37.6(f)(1). 29 CFR part 2, subpart D also contains requirements related to equal treatment of religious organizations in Department of Labor programs, and to protection of religious liberty of Department of Labor social service providers and beneficiaries. Limitations on the employment of participants under WIA Title I to carry out the construction, operation, or maintenance of any part of any facility used or to be used for religious instruction or as a place of religious worship are described at 29 CFR 37.6(f)(2).
See
section 188(a)(3) of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, 29 U.S.C. 2938(a)(3).
[65 FR 49421, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 41891, July 12, 2004]

# Subpart C—Reporting Requirements
§ 667.300
What are the reporting requirements for Workforce Investment Act programs?
(a)
General.
All States and other direct grant recipients must report financial, participant, and performance data in accordance with instructions issued by DOL. Required reports must be submitted no more frequently than quarterly within a time period specified in the reporting instructions.
(b)
Subrecipient reporting.
(1) A State or other direct grant recipient may impose different forms or formats, shorter due dates, and more frequent reporting requirements on subrecipients. However, the recipient is required to meet the reporting requirements imposed by DOL.
(2) If a State intends to impose different reporting requirements, it must describe those reporting requirements in its State WIA plan.
(c)
Financial reports.
(1) Each grant recipient must submit financial reports.
(2) Reports must include any income or profits earned, including such income or profits earned by subrecipients, and any costs incurred (such as stand-in costs) that are otherwise allowable except for funding limitations. (WIA sec. 185(f)(2))
(3) Reported expenditures and program income, including any profits earned, must be on the accrual basis of accounting and cumulative by fiscal year of appropriation. If the recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis of accounting, the recipient must develop accrual information through an analysis of the documentation on hand.
(d)
Due date.
Financial reports and participant data reports are due no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter unless otherwise specified in reporting instructions. A final financial report is required 90 days after the expiration of a funding period or the termination of grant support.
(e)
Annual performance progress report.
An annual performance progress report for each of the three programs under title I, subpart B is required by WIA section 136(d).
(1) A State failing to submit any of these annual performance progress reports within 45 days of the due date may have its grant (for that program or all title I, subpart B programs) for the succeeding year reduced by as much as five percent, as provided by WIA section 136(g)(1)(B).
(2) States submitting annual performance progress reports that cannot be validated or verified as accurately counting and reporting activities in accordance with the reporting instructions, may be treated as failing to submit annual reports, and be subject to sanction. Sanctions related to State performance or failure to submit these reports timely cannot result in a total grant reduction of more than five percent. Any sanction would be in addition to having to repay the amount of any incentive funds granted based on the invalid report.

# Subpart D—Oversight and Monitoring
§ 667.400
Who is responsible for oversight and monitoring of WIA title I grants?
(a) The Secretary is authorized to monitor all recipients and subrecipients of all grants awarded and funds expended under WIA title I to determine compliance with the Act and the WIA regulations, and may investigate any matter deemed necessary to determine such compliance. Federal oversight will be conducted primarily at the recipient level.
(b) In each fiscal year, we will also conduct in-depth reviews in several States, including financial and performance audits, to assure that funds are spent in accordance with the Act. Priority for such in-depth reviews will be given to States not meeting annual adjusted levels of performance.
(c)(1) Each recipient and subrecipient must continuously monitor grant-supported activities in accordance with the uniform administrative requirements at 29 CFR parts 95 and 97, as applicable, including the applicable cost principles indicated at 29 CFR 97.22(b) or 29 CFR 95.27, for all entities receiving WIA title I funds. For governmental units, the applicable requirements are at 29 CFR part 97. For non-
profit organizations, the applicable requirements are at 29 CFR part 95.
(2) In the case of grants under WIA sections 127 and 132, the Governor must develop a State monitoring system that meets the requirements of § 667.410(b). The Governor must monitor Local Boards annually for compliance with applicable laws and regulations in accordance with the State monitoring system. Monitoring must include an annual review of each local area's compliance with the uniform administrative requirements.
§ 667.410
What are the oversight roles and responsibilities of recipients and subrecipients?
(a)
Roles and responsibilities for all recipients and subrecipients of funds under WIA title I in general.
Each recipient and subrecipient must conduct regular oversight and monitoring of its WIA activities and those of its subrecipients and contractors in order to:
(1) Determine that expenditures have been made against the cost categories and within the cost limitations specified in the Act and the regulations in this part;
(2) Determine whether or not there is compliance with other provisions of the Act and the WIA regulations and other applicable laws and regulations; and
(3) Provide technical assistance as necessary and appropriate.
(b)
State roles and responsibilities for grants under WIA sections 127 and 132.
(1) The Governor is responsible for the development of the State monitoring system. The Governor must be able to demonstrate, through a monitoring plan or otherwise, that the State monitoring system meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) The State monitoring system must:
(i) Provide for annual on-site monitoring reviews of local areas' compliance with DOL uniform administrative requirements, as required by WIA section 184(a)(4);
(ii) Ensure that established policies to achieve program quality and outcomes meet the objectives of the Act and the WIA regulations, including policies relating to: the provision of services by One-Stop Centers; eligible providers of training services; and eligible providers of youth activities;
(iii) Enable the Governor to determine if subrecipients and contractors have demonstrated substantial compliance with WIA requirements; and
(iv) Enable the Governor to determine whether a local plan will be disapproved for failure to make acceptable progress in addressing deficiencies, as required in WIA section 118(d)(1).
(v) Enable the Governor to ensure compliance with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements of WIA section 188 and 29 CFR part 37. Requirements for these aspects of the monitoring system are set forth in 29 CFR 37.54(d)(2)(ii).
(3) The State must conduct an annual on-site monitoring review of each local area's compliance with DOL uniform administrative requirements, including the appropriate administrative requirements for subrecipients and the applicable cost principles indicated at § 667.200 for all entities receiving WIA title I funds.
(4) The Governor must require that prompt corrective action be taken if any substantial violation of standards identified in paragraphs (b) (2) or (3) of this section is found. (WIA sec. 184(a)(5).)
(5) The Governor must impose the sanctions provided in WIA section 184 (b) and (c) in the event of a subrecipient's failure to take required corrective action required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(6) The Governor may issue additional requirements and instructions to subrecipients on monitoring activities.
(7) The Governor must certify to the Secretary every two years that:
(i) The State has implemented uniform administrative requirements;
(ii) The State has monitored local areas to ensure compliance with uniform administrative requirements; and
(iii) The State has taken appropriate corrective action to secure such compliance. (WIA sec. 184(a)(6)(A), (B), and (C).)

# Subpart E—Resolution of Findings From Monitoring and Oversight Reviews
§ 667.500
What procedures apply to the resolution of findings arising from audits, investigations, monitoring and oversight reviews?
(a)
Resolution of subrecipient-level findings.
(1) The Governor is responsible for resolving findings that arise from the State's monitoring reviews, investigations and audits (including OMB Circular A-133 audits) of subrecipients.
(2) A State must utilize the audit resolution, debt collection and appeal procedures that it uses for other Federal grant programs.
(3) If a State does not have such procedures, it must prescribe standards and procedures to be used for this grant program.
(b)
Resolution of State and other direct recipient level findings.
(1) The Secretary is responsible for resolving findings that arise from Federal audits, monitoring reviews, investigations, incident reports, and recipient level OMB Circular A-133 audits.
(2) The Secretary uses the DOL audit resolution process, consistent with the Single Audit Act of 1996 and OMB Circular A-133, and Grant Officer Resolution provisions of § 667.510, as appropriate.
(3) A final determination issued by a Grant Officer under this process may be appealed to the DOL Office of Administrative Law Judges under the procedures at § 667.800.
(c)
Resolution of nondiscrimination findings.
Findings arising from investigations or reviews conducted under nondiscrimination laws will be resolved in accordance with WIA section 188 and the Department of Labor nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIA section 188, codified at 29 CFR part 37.
§ 667.505
How do we resolve investigative and monitoring findings?
(a) As a result of an investigation, on-site visit or other monitoring, we notify the recipient of the findings of the investigation and gives the recipient a period of time (not more than 60 days) to comment and to take appropriate corrective actions.
(b) The Grant Officer reviews the complete file of the investigation or monitoring report and the recipient's actions under paragraph (a) of this section. The Grant Officer's review takes into account the sanction provisions of WIA section 184(b) and (c). If the Grant Officer agrees with the recipient's handling of the situation, the Grant Officer so notifies the recipient. This notification constitutes final agency action.
(c) If the Grant Officer disagrees with the recipient's handling of the matter, the Grant Officer proceeds under § 667.510.
§ 667.510
What is the Grant Officer resolution process?
(a)
General.
When the Grant Officer is dissatisfied with the State's disposition of an audit or other resolution of violations (including those arising out of incident reports or compliance reviews), or with the recipient's response to findings resulting from investigations or monitoring report, the initial and final determination process, set forth in this section, is used to resolve the matter.
(b)
Initial determination.
The Grant Officer makes an initial determination on the findings for both those matters where there is agreement and those where there is disagreement with the recipient's resolution, including the allowability of questioned costs or activities. This initial determination is based upon the requirements of the Act and regulations, and the terms and conditions of the grants, contracts, or other agreements under the Act.
(c)
Informal resolution.
Except in an emergency situation, when the Secretary invokes the authority described in WIA section 184(e), the Grant Officer may not revoke a recipient's grant in whole or in part, nor institute corrective actions or sanctions, without first providing the recipient with an opportunity to present documentation or arguments to resolve informally those matters in controversy contained in the initial determination. The initial determination must provide for an informal resolution period of at least 60 days from issuance of the initial determination. If the matters are resolved informally, the Grant Officer must
issue a final determination under paragraph (d) of this section which notifies the parties in writing of the nature of the resolution and may close the file.
(d)
Grant Officer's final determination.
(1) If the matter is not fully resolved informally, the Grant Officer provides each party with a written final determination by certified mail, return receipt requested. For audits of recipient-level entities and other recipients which receive WIA funds directly from DOL, ordinarily, the final determination is issued not later than 180 days from the date that the Office of Inspector General (OIG) issues the final approved audit report to the Employment and Training Administration. For audits of subrecipients conducted by the OIG, ordinarily the final determination is issued not later than 360 days from the date the OIG issues the final approved audit report to ETA.
(2) A final determination under this paragraph (d) must:
(i) Indicate whether efforts to informally resolve matters contained in the initial determination have been unsuccessful;
(ii) List those matters upon which the parties continue to disagree;
(iii) List any modifications to the factual findings and conclusions set forth in the initial determination and the rationale for such modifications;
(iv) Establish a debt, if appropriate;
(v) Require corrective action, when needed;
(vi) Determine liability, method of restitution of funds and sanctions; and
(vii) Offer an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with § 667.800 of this part.
(3) Unless a hearing is requested, a final determination under this paragraph (d) is final agency action and is not subject to further review.
(e) Nothing in this subpart precludes the Grant Officer from issuing an initial determination and/or final determination directly to a subrecipient, in accordance with section 184(d)(3) of the Act. In such a case, the Grant Officer will inform the recipient of this action.

# Subpart F—Grievance Procedures, Complaints, and State Appeals Processes
§ 667.600
What local area, State and direct recipient grievance procedures must be established?
(a) Each local area, State and direct recipient of funds under title I of WIA, except for Job Corps, must establish and maintain a procedure for grievances and complaints according to the requirements of this section. The grievance procedure requirements applicable to Job Corps are set forth at 20 CFR 670.990.
(b) Each local area, State, and direct recipient must:
(1) Provide information about the content of the grievance and complaint procedures required by this section to participants and other interested parties affected by the local Workforce Investment System, including One-Stop partners and service providers;
(2) Require that every entity to which it awards Title I funds must provide the information referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to participants receiving Title I-funded services from such entities; and
(3) Must make reasonable efforts to assure that the information referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be understood by affected participants and other individuals, including youth and those who are limited-English speaking individuals. Such efforts must comply with the language requirements of 29 CFR 37.35 regarding the provision of services and information in languages other than English.
(c) Local area procedures must provide:
(1) A process for dealing with grievances and complaints from participants and other interested parties affected by the local Workforce Investment System, including One-Stop partners and service providers;
(2) An opportunity for an informal resolution and a hearing to be completed within 60 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint;
(3) A process which allows an individual alleging a labor standards violation to submit the grievance to a binding arbitration procedure, if a collective bargaining agreement covering the
parties to the grievance so provides; and
(4) An opportunity for a local level appeal to a State entity when:
(i) No decision is reached within 60 days; or
(ii) Either party is dissatisfied with the local hearing decision.
(d) State procedures must provide:
(1) A process for dealing with grievances and complaints from participants and other interested parties affected by the Statewide Workforce Investment programs;
(2) A process for resolving appeals made under paragraph (c)(4) of this section;
(3) A process for remanding grievances and complaints related to the local Workforce Investment Act programs to the local area grievance process; and
(4) An opportunity for an informal resolution and a hearing to be completed within 60 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint.
(e) Procedures of direct recipients must provide:
(1) A process for dealing with grievance and complaints from participants and other interested parties affected by the recipient's Workforce Investment Act programs; and
(2) An opportunity for an informal resolution and a hearing to be completed within 60 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint.
(f) The remedies that may be imposed under local, State and direct recipient grievance procedures are enumerated at WIA section 181(c)(3).
(g)(1) The provisions of this section on grievance procedures do not apply to discrimination complaints brought under WIA section 188 and/or 29 CFR part 37. Such complaints must be handled in accordance with the procedures set forth in that regulatory part.
(2) Questions about or complaints alleging a violation of the nondiscrimination provisions of WIA section 188 may be directed or mailed to the Director, Civil Rights Center, U.S. Department of Labor, Room N4123, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, D.C. 20210, for processing.
(h) Nothing in this subpart precludes a grievant or complainant from pursuing a remedy authorized under another Federal, State or local law.
§ 667.610
What processes do we use to review State and local grievances and complaints?
(a) We investigate allegations arising through the grievance procedures described in § 667.600 when:
(1) A decision on a grievance or complaint under § 667.600(d) has not been reached within 60 days of receipt of the grievance or complaint or within 60 days of receipt of the request for appeal of a local level grievance and either party appeals to the Secretary; or
(2) A decision on a grievance or complaint under § 667.600(d) has been reached and the party to which such decision is adverse appeals to the Secretary.
(b) We must make a final decision on an appeal under paragraph (a) of this section no later than 120 days after receiving the appeal.
(c) Appeals made under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be filed within 60 days of the receipt of the decision being appealed. Appeals made under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be filed within 120 days of the filing of the grievance with the State, or the filing of the appeal of a local grievance with the State. All appeals must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the appropriate ETA Regional Administrator and the opposing party.
(d) Except for complaints arising under WIA section 184(f) or section 188, grievances or complaints made directly to the Secretary will be referred to the appropriate State or local area for resolution in accordance with this section, unless we notify the parties that the Department of Labor will investigate the grievance under the procedures at § 667.505. Discrimination complaints brought under WIA section 188 or 29 CFR part 37 will be referred to the Director of the Civil Rights Center.
§ 667.630
How are complaints and reports of criminal fraud and abuse addressed under WIA?
Information and complaints involving criminal fraud, waste, abuse or other criminal activity must be reported immediately through the Department's Incident Reporting System to the DOL Office of Inspector General, Office of Investigations, Room S5514, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, D.C. 20210, or to the corresponding Regional Inspector General for Investigations, with a copy simultaneously provided to the Employment and Training Administration. The Hotline number is 1-800-347-3756. Complaints of a non-criminal nature are handled under the procedures set forth in § 667.505 or through the Department's Incident Reporting System.
§ 667.640
What additional appeal processes or systems must a State have for the WIA program?
(a)
Non-designation of local areas:
(1) The State must establish, and include in its State Plan, due process procedures which provide expeditious appeal to the State Board for a unit or combination of units of general local government or a rural concentrated employment program grant recipient (as described at WIA section 116(a)(2)(B)) that requests, but is not granted, automatic or temporary and subsequent designation as a local workforce investment area under WIA section 116(a)(2) or 116(a)(3).
(2) These procedures must provide an opportunity for a hearing and prescribe appropriate time limits to ensure prompt resolution of the appeal.
(3) If the appeal to the State Board does not result in designation, the appellant may request review by the Secretary under § 667.645.
(4) If the Secretary determines that the appellant was not accorded procedural rights under the appeal process established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or that the area meets the requirements for designation at WIA section 116(a)(2) or 116(a)(3), the Secretary may require that the area be designated as a workforce investment area.
(b)
Denial or termination of eligibility as a training provider.
(1) A State must establish procedures which allow providers of training services the opportunity to appeal:
(i) Denial of eligibility by a Local Board or the designated State agency under WIA section 122 (b), (c) or (e);
(ii) Termination of eligibility or other action by a Local Board or State agency under WIA section 122(f); or
(iii) Denial of eligibility as a provider of on-the-job training (OJT) or customized training by a One-Stop operator under WIA section 122(h).
(2) Such procedures must provide an opportunity for a hearing and prescribe appropriate time limits to ensure prompt resolution of the appeal.
(3) A decision under this State appeal process may not be appealed to the Secretary.
(c)
Testing and sanctioning for use of controlled substances.
(1) A State must establish due process procedures which provide expeditious appeal for:
(i) WIA participants subject to testing for use of controlled substances, imposed under a State policy established under WIA section 181(f); and
(ii) WIA participants who are sanctioned after testing positive for the use of controlled substances, under the policy described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) A decision under this State appeal process may not be appealed to the Secretary.
§ 667.645
What procedures apply to the appeals of non-designation of local areas?
(a) A unit or combination of units of general local government or rural concentrated employment program grant recipient (as described in WIA section 116(a)(2)(B)) whose appeal of the denial of a request for automatic or temporary and subsequent designation as a local workforce investment area to the State Board has not resulted in designation may appeal the denial of local area designation to the Secretary.
(b) Appeals made under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed no later than 30 days after receipt of written notification of the denial from the State Board, and must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210,
Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the State Board.
(c) The appellant must establish that it was not accorded procedural rights under the appeal process set forth in the State Plan, or establish that it meets the requirements for designation in WIA section 116(a)(2) or (a)(3). The Secretary may consider any comments submitted in response by the State Board.
(d) If the Secretary determines that the appellant has met its burden of establishing that it was not accorded procedural rights under the appeal process set forth in the State Plan, or that it meets the requirements for designation in WIA section 116(a)(2) or (a)(3), the Secretary may require that the area be designated as a local workforce investment area.
(e) The Secretary must issue a written decision to the Governor and the appellant.
§ 667.650
What procedures apply to the appeals of the Governor's imposition of sanctions for substantial violations or performance failures by a local area?
(a) A local area which has been found in substantial violation of WIA title I, and has received notice from the Governor that either all or part of the local plan will be revoked or that a reorganization will occur, may appeal such sanctions to the Secretary under WIA section 184(b). The sanctions do not become effective until:
(1) The time for appeal has expired; or
(2) The Secretary has issued a decision.
(b) A local area which has failed to meet local performance measures for two consecutive years, and has received the Governor's notice of intent to impose a reorganization plan, may appeal such sanctions to the Secretary under WIA section 136(h)(1)(B).
(c) Appeals made under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must be filed no later than 30 days after receipt of written notification of the revoked plan or imposed reorganization, and must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the Governor.
(d) The Secretary may consider any comments submitted in response by the Governor.
(e) The Secretary will notify the Governor and the appellant in writing of the Secretary's decision under paragraph (a) of this section within 45 days after receipt of the appeal. The Secretary will notify the Governor and the appellant in writing of the Secretary's decision under paragraph (b) of this section within 30 days after receipt of the appeal.

# Subpart G—Sanctions, Corrective Actions, and Waiver of Liability
§ 667.700
What procedure do we use to impose sanctions and corrective actions on recipients and subrecipients of WIA grant funds?
(a)(1) Except for actions under WIA section 188(a) or 29 CFR part 37 (relating to nondiscrimination requirements), the Grant Officer uses the initial and final determination procedures outlined in § 667.510 to impose a sanction or corrective action.
(2) To impose a sanction or corrective action for a violation of WIA section 188(a) or 29 CFR part 37, the Department will use the procedures set forth in that regulatory part.
(b) To impose a sanction or corrective action for noncompliance with the uniform administrative requirements set forth at section 184(a)(3) of WIA, and § 667.200(a), when the Grant Officer determines that the Governor has not taken corrective action to remedy the violation as required by WIA section 184(a)(5), the Grant Officer, under the authority of WIA section 184(a)(7) and § 667.710(c), must require the Governor to impose any of the corrective actions set forth at WIA section 184(b)(1). If the Governor fails to impose the corrective actions required by the Grant Officer, the Secretary may immediately suspend or terminate financial assistance in accordance with WIA section 184(e).
(c) For substantial violations of WIA statutory and regulatory requirements, if the Governor fails to promptly take the actions specified in WIA section 184(b)(1), the Grant Officer may impose
such actions directly against the local area.
(d) The Grant Officer may also impose a sanction directly against a subrecipient, as authorized in section 184(d)(3) of the Act. In such a case, the Grant Officer will inform the recipient of the action.
§ 667.705
Who is responsible for funds provided under title I of WIA?
(a) The recipient is responsible for all funds under its grant(s).
(b) The political jurisdiction(s) of the chief elected official(s) in a local workforce investment area is liable for any misuse of the WIA grant funds allocated to the local area under WIA sections 128 and 133, unless the chief elected official(s) reaches an agreement with the Governor to bear such liability.
(c) When a local workforce area is composed of more than one unit of general local government, the liability of the individual jurisdictions must be specified in a written agreement between the chief elected officials.
§ 667.710
What actions are required to address the failure of a local area to comply with the applicable uniform administrative provisions?
(a) If, as part of the annual on-site monitoring of local areas, the Governor determines that a local area is not in compliance with the uniform administrative requirements found at 29 CFR part 95 or part 97, as appropriate, the Governor must:
(1) Require corrective action to secure prompt compliance; and
(2) Impose the sanctions provided for at section 184(b) if the Governor finds that the local area has failed to take timely corrective action.
(b) An action by the recipient to impose a sanction against a local area, in accordance with this section, may be appealed to the Secretary in accordance with § 667.650, and will not become effective until:
(1) The time for appeal has expired; or
(2) The Secretary has issued a decision.
(c)(1) If the Secretary finds that the Governor has failed to monitor and certify compliance of local areas with the administrative requirements, under WIA section 184(a), or that the Governor has failed to promptly take the actions required upon a determination under paragraph (a) of this section that a local area is not in compliance with the uniform administrative requirements, the Secretary will require the Governor to take corrective actions against the State recipient or the local area, as appropriate to ensure prompt compliance.
(2) If the Governor fails to take the corrective actions required by the Secretary under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Secretary may immediately suspend or terminate financial assistance under WIA section 184(e).
§ 667.720
How do we handle a recipient's request for waiver of liability under WIA section 184(d)(2)?
(a) A recipient may request a waiver of liability, as described in WIA section 184(d)(2), and a Grant Officer may approve such a waiver under WIA section 184(d)(3).
(b)(1) When the debt for which a waiver of liability is desired was established in a non-Federal resolution proceeding, the resolution report must accompany the waiver request.
(2) When the waiver request is made during the ETA Grant Officer resolution process, the request must be made during the informal resolution period described in § 667.510(c).
(c) A waiver of the recipient's liability shall be considered by the Grant Officer only when:
(1) The misexpenditure of WIA funds occurred at a subrecipient's level;
(2) The misexpenditure was not due to willful disregard of the requirements of title I of the Act, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration, or did not constitute fraud;
(3) If fraud did exist, it was perpetrated against the recipient/subrecipients; and
(i) The recipient/subrecipients discovered, investigated, reported, and cooperated in any prosecution of the perpetrator of the fraud; and
(ii) After aggressive debt collection action, it has been documented that further attempts at debt collection from the perpetrator of the fraud would be inappropriate or futile;
(4) The recipient has issued a final determination which disallows the misexpenditure, the recipient's appeal process has been exhausted, and a debt has been established; and
(5) The recipient requests such a waiver and provides documentation to demonstrate that it has substantially complied with the requirements of section 184(d)(2) of the Act, and this section.
(d) The recipient will not be released from liability for misspent funds under the determination required by section 184(d) of the Act unless the Grant Officer determines that further collection action, either by the recipient or subrecipients, would be inappropriate or would prove futile.
§ 667.730
What is the procedure to handle a recipient's request for advance approval of contemplated corrective actions?
(a) The recipient may request advance approval from the Grant Officer for contemplated corrective actions, including debt collection actions, which the recipient plans to initiate or to forego. The recipient's request must include a description and an assessment of all actions taken by the subrecipients to collect the misspent funds.
(b) Based on the recipient's request, the Grant Officer may determine that the recipient may forego certain collection actions against a subrecipient when:
(1) The subrecipient meets the criteria set forth in section 184(d)(2) of the Act;
(2) The misexpenditure of funds:
(i) Was not made by that subrecipient but by an entity that received WIA funds from that subrecipient;
(ii) Was not a violation of section 184(d)(1) of the Act, and did not constitute fraud; or
(iii) If fraud did exist,
(A) It was perpetrated against the subrecipient; and:
(B) The subrecipient discovered, investigated, reported, and cooperated in any prosecution of the perpetrator of the fraud; and
(C) After aggressive debt collection action, it has been documented that further attempts at debt collection from the perpetrator of the fraud would be inappropriate or futile;
(3) A final determination which disallows the misexpenditure and establishes a debt has been issued at the appropriate level;
(4) Final action within the recipient's appeal system has been completed; and
(5) Further debt collection action by that subrecipient or the recipient would be either inappropriate or futile.
§ 667.740
What procedure must be used for administering the offset/deduction provisions at section 184(c) of the Act?
(a)(1) For recipient level misexpenditures, we may determine that a debt, or a portion thereof, may be offset against amounts that are allotted to the recipient. Recipients must submit a written request for an offset to the Grant Officer. Generally, we will apply the offset against amounts that are available at the recipient level for administrative costs.
(2) The Grant Officer may approve an offset request, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if the misexpenditures were not due to willful disregard of the requirements of the Act and regulations, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration or a pattern of misexpenditure.
(b) For subrecipient level misexpenditures that were not due to willful disregard of the requirements of the Act and regulations, gross negligence, failure to observe accepted standards of administration or a pattern of misexpenditure, if we have required the State to repay such amount the State may deduct an amount equal to the misexpenditure from its subsequent year's allocations to the local area from funds available for the administrative costs of the local programs involved.
(c) If offset is granted, the debt will not be fully satisfied until the Grant Officer reduces amounts allotted to the State by the amount of the misexpenditure.
(d) A State may not make a deduction under paragraph (b) of this section until the State has taken appropriate corrective action to ensure full compliance within the local area with regard
to appropriate expenditure of WIA funds.

# Subpart H—Administrative Adjudication and Judicial Review
§ 667.800
What actions of the Department may be appealed to the Office of Administrative Law Judges?
(a) An applicant for financial assistance under title I of WIA which is dissatisfied because we have issued a determination not to award financial assistance, in whole or in part, to such applicant; or a recipient, subrecipient, or a vendor against which the Grant Officer has directly imposed a sanction or corrective action, including a sanction against a State under 20 CFR part 666, may appeal to the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) within 21 days of receipt of the final determination.
(b) Failure to request a hearing within 21 days of receipt of the final determination constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing.
(c) A request for a hearing under this subpart must state specifically those issues in the final determination upon which review is requested. Those provisions of the final determination not specified for review, or the entire final determination when no hearing has been requested within the 21 days, are considered resolved and not subject to further review. Only alleged violations of the Act, its regulations, grant or other agreement under the Act fairly raised in the determination, and the request for hearing are subject to review.
(d) A request for a hearing must be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, U.S. Department of Labor, in accordance with 29 CFR part 18, with one copy to the Departmental official who issued the determination.
(e) The procedures in this subpart apply in the case of a complainant who has not had a dispute adjudicated under the alternative dispute resolution process set forth in § 667.840 within the 60 days, except that the request for hearing before the OALJ must be filed within 15 days of the conclusion of the 60-day period provided in § 667.840. In addition to including the final determination upon which review is requested, the complainant must include a copy of any Stipulation of Facts and a brief summary of proceedings.
[65 FR 49421, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 86 FR 1779, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 667.810
What rules of procedure apply to hearings conducted under this subpart?
(a)
Rules of practice and procedure.
The rules of practice and procedure promulgated by the OALJ at subpart A of 29 CFR part 18, govern the conduct of hearings under this subpart. However, a request for hearing under this subpart is not considered a complaint to which the filing of an answer by DOL or a DOL agency or official is required. Technical rules of evidence will not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this part. However, rules or principles designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to cross-examination will apply.
(b)
Prehearing procedures.
In all cases, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) should encourage the use of prehearing procedures to simplify and clarify facts and issues.
(c)
Subpoenas.
Subpoenas necessary to secure the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents or other items at hearings must be obtained from the ALJ and must be issued under the authority contained in section 183(c) of the Act, incorporating 15 U.S.C. 49.
(d)
Timely submission of evidence.
The ALJ must not permit the introduction at the hearing of any documentation if it has not been made available for review by the other parties to the proceeding either at the time ordered for any prehearing conference, or, in the absence of such an order, at least 3 weeks prior to the hearing date.
(e)
Burden of production.
The Grant Officer has the burden of production to support her or his decision. To this end, the Grant Officer prepares and files an administrative file in support of the decision which must be made part of the record. Thereafter, the party or parties seeking to overturn the Grant Officer's decision has the burden of persuasion.
§ 667.820
What authority does the Administrative Law Judge have in ordering relief as an outcome of an administrative hearing?
In ordering relief, the ALJ has the full authority of the Secretary under the Act.
§ 667.825
What special rules apply to reviews of NFJP and WIA INA grant selections?
(a) An applicant whose application for funding as a WIA INA grantee under 20 CFR part 668 or as an NFJP grantee under 20 CFR part 669 is denied in whole or in part may request an administrative review under § 667.800(a) with to determine whether there is a basis in the record to support the decision. This appeal will not in any way interfere with the designation and funding of another organization to serve the area in question during the appeal period. The available remedy in such an appeal is the right to be designated in the future as the WIA INA or NFJP grantee for the remainder of the current grant cycle. Neither retroactive nor immediately effective selection status may be awarded as relief in a non-selection appeal under this section.
(b) If the ALJ rules that the organization should have been selected and the organization continues to meet the requirements of 20 CFR part 668 or part 669, we will select and fund the organization within 90 days of the ALJ's decision unless the end of the 90-day period is within six (6) months of the end of the funding period. An applicant so selected is not entitled to the full grant amount, but will only receive the funds remaining in the grant that have not been expended by the current grantee through its operation of the grant and its subsequent closeout.
(c) Any organization selected and/or funded as a WIA INA or NFJP grantee is subject to being removed as grantee in the event an ALJ decision so orders. The Grant Officer provides instructions on transition and close-out to a grantee which is removed. All parties must agree to the provisions of this paragraph as a condition for WIA INA or NFJP funding.
(d) A successful appellant which has not been awarded relief because of the application of paragraph (b) of this section is eligible to compete for funds in the immediately subsequent two-year grant cycle. In such a situation, we will not issue a waiver of competition and for the area and will select a grantee through the normal competitive process.
§ 667.830
When will the Administrative Law Judge issue a decision?
(a) The ALJ should render a written decision not later than 90 days after the closing of the record.
(b) The decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action unless, within 20 days of the decision, a party dissatisfied with the ALJ's decision has filed a petition for review with the Administrative Review Board (ARB) (established under Secretary's Order No. 01-2020), specifically identifying the procedure, fact, law, or policy to which exception is taken, in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. Any exception not specifically urged is deemed to have been waived. A copy of the petition for review must be sent to the opposing party at that time. Thereafter, the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action unless the ARB, within 30 days of the filing of the petition for review, notifies the parties that the case has been accepted for review. In any case accepted by the ARB, a decision must be issued by the ARB within 180 days of acceptance. If a decision is not so issued, the decision of the ALJ constitutes final agency action.
[65 FR 49421, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 85 FR 13030, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30615, May 20, 2020; 86 FR 1779, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 667.840
Is there an alternative dispute resolution process that may be used in place of an OALJ hearing?
(a) Parties to a complaint which has been filed according to the requirements of § 667.800 may choose to waive their rights to an administrative hearing before the OALJ. Instead, they may choose to transfer the settlement of their dispute to an individual acceptable to all parties who will conduct an informal review of the stipulated facts and render a decision in accordance with applicable law. A written decision must be issued within 60 days after
submission of the matter for informal review.
(b) The waiver of the right to request a hearing before the OALJ will automatically be revoked if a settlement has not been reached or a decision has not been issued within the 60 days provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The decision rendered under this informal review process will be treated as a final decision of an Administrative Law Judge under section 186(b) of the Act.
§ 667.850
Is there judicial review of a final order of the Secretary issued under section 186 of the Act?
(a) Any party to a proceeding which resulted in a Secretary's final order under section 186 of the Act may obtain a review in the United States Court of Appeals having jurisdiction over the applicant or recipient of funds involved, by filing a review petition within 30 days of the issuance of the Secretary's final order.
(b) The court has jurisdiction to make and enter a decree affirming, modifying, or setting aside the order of the Secretary, in whole or in part.
(c) No objection to the Secretary's order may be considered by the court unless the objection was specifically urged, in a timely manner, before the Secretary. The review is limited to questions of law, and the findings of fact of the Secretary are conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.
(d) The judgment of the court is final, subject to certiorari review by the United States Supreme Court.
§ 667.860
Are there other remedies available outside of the Act?
Nothing contained in this subpart prejudices the separate exercise of other legal rights in pursuit of remedies and sanctions available outside the Act.
Pt. 668

# PART 668—INDIAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—Purposes and Policies
Sec.
668.100
What is the purpose of the programs established to serve Native American peoples (INA programs) under section166 of the Workforce Investment Act?
668.120
How must INA programs be administered?
668.130
What obligation do we have to consult with the INA grantee community in developing rules, regulations, and standards of accountability for INA programs?
668.140
What WIA regulations apply to the INA program?
668.150
What definitions apply to terms used in the regulations in this part?

# Subpart B—Service Delivery Systems Applicable to Section 166 Programs
668.200
What are the requirements for designation as an “Indian or Native American (INA) grantee”?
668.210
What priority for designation is given to eligible organizations?
668.220
What is meant by the “ability to administer funds” for designation purposes?
668.230
How will we determine an entity's “ability to administer funds”?
668.240
What is the process for applying for designation as an INA grantee?
668.250
What happens if two or more entities apply for the same area?
668.260
How are INA grantees designated?
668.270
What appeal rights are available to entities that are denied designation?
668.280
Are there any other ways in which an entity may be designated as an INA grantee?
668.290
Can an INA grantee's designation be terminated?
668.292
How does a designated entity become an INA grantee?
668.294
Do we have to designate an INA grantee for every part of the country?
668.296
How are WIA funds allocated to INA grantees?

# Subpart C—Services to Customers
668.300
Who is eligible to receive services under the INA program?
668.340
What are INA grantee allowable activities?
668.350
Are there any restrictions on allowable activities?
668.360
What is the role of INA grantees in the One-Stop system?
668.370
What policies govern payments to participants, including wages, training allowances or stipends, or direct payments for supportive services?
668.380
What will we do to strengthen the capacity of INA grantees to deliver effective services?

# Subpart D—Supplemental Youth Services
668.400
What is the purpose of the supplemental youth services program?
668.410
What entities are eligible to receive supplemental youth services funding?
668.420
What are the planning requirements for receiving supplemental youth services funding?
668.430
What individuals are eligible to receive supplemental youth services?
668.440
How is funding for supplemental youth services determined?
668.450
How will supplemental youth services be provided?
668.460
Are there performance measures and standards applicable to the supplemental youth services program?

# Subpart E—Services to Communities
668.500
What services may INA grantees provide to or for employers under section 166?
668.510
What services may INA grantees provide to the community at large under section 166?
668.520
Must INA grantees give preference to Indian/Native American entities in the selection of contractors or service providers?
668.530
What rules govern the issuance of contracts and/or subgrants?

# Subpart F—Accountability for Services and Expenditures
668.600
To whom is the INA grantee accountable for the provision of services and the expenditure of INA funds?
668.610
How is this accountability documented and fulfilled?
668.620
What performance measures are in place for the INA program?
668.630
What are the requirements for preventing fraud and abuse under section 166?
668.640
What grievance systems must a section 166 program provide?
668.650
Can INA grantees exclude segments of the eligible population?

# Subpart G—Section 166 Planning/Funding Process
668.700
What process must an INA grantee use to plan its employment and training services?
668.710
What planning documents must an INA grantee submit?
668.720
What information must these planning documents contain?
668.730
When must these plans be submitted?
668.740
How will we review and approve such plans?
668.750
Under what circumstances can we or the INA grantee modify the terms of the grantee's plan(s)?

# Subpart H—Administrative Requirements
668.800
What systems must an INA grantee have in place to administer an INA program?
668.810
What types of costs are allowable expenditures under the INA program?
668.820
What rules apply to administrative costs under the INA program?
668.825
Does the WIA administrative cost limit for States and local areas apply to section 166 grants?
668.830
How should INA program grantees classify costs?
668.840
What cost principles apply to INA funds?
668.850
What audit requirements apply to INA grants?
668.860
What cash management procedures apply to INA grant funds?
668.870
What is “program income” and how is it regulated in the INA program?

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous Program Provisions
668.900
Does WIA provide regulatory and/or statutory waiver authority?
668.910
What information is required to document a requested waiver?
668.920
What provisions of law or regulations may not be waived?
668.930
May INA grantees combine or consolidate their employment and training funds?
668.940
What is the role of the Native American Employment and Training Council?

# Authority:
Secs. 506(c) and 166(h)(2), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c); 29 U.S.C. 2911(h)(2).

# Source:
65 FR 49435, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purposes and Policies
§ 668.100
What is the purpose of the programs established to serve Native American peoples (INA programs) under section 166 of the Workforce Investment Act?
(a) The purpose of WIA INA programs is to support comprehensive employment and training activities for Indian, Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian individuals in order to:
(1) Develop more fully their academic, occupational, and literacy skills;
(2) Make them more competitive in the workforce;
(3) Promote the economic and social development of Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian communities according to the goals and values of such communities; and
(4) Help them achieve personal and economic self-sufficiency.
(b) The principal means of accomplishing these purposes is to enable tribes and Native American organizations to provide employment and training services to Native American peoples and their communities. Services should be provided in a culturally appropriate manner, consistent with the principles of Indian self-determination. (WIA sec. 166(a)(1).)
§ 668.120
How must INA programs be administered?
(a) We will administer INA programs to maximize the Federal commitment to support the growth and development of Native American people and communities as determined by representatives of such communities.
(b) In administering these programs, we will observe the Congressional declaration of policy set forth in the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, at 25 U.S.C. section 450a, as well as the Department of Labor's “American Indian and Alaska Native Policy,” dated July 29, 1998.
(c) The regulations in this part are not intended to abrogate the trust responsibilities of the Federal Government to Native American bands, tribes, or groups in any way.
(d) We will administer INA programs through a single organizational unit and consistent with the requirements in section 166(h) of the Act. We have designated the Division of Indian and Native American Programs (DINAP) within the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) as this single organizational unit required by WIA section 166(h)(1).
(e) We will establish and maintain administrative procedures for the selection, administration, monitoring, and evaluation of Native American employment and training programs authorized under this Act. We will utilize staff who have a particular competence in this field to administer these programs. (WIA sec. 166(h).)
§ 668.130
What obligation do we have to consult with the INA grantee community in developing rules, regulations, and standards of accountability for INA programs?
We will consult with the Native American grantee community as a full partner in developing policies for the INA programs. We will actively seek and consider the views of all INA grantees, and will discuss options with the grantee community prior to establishing policies and program regulations. The primary consultation vehicle is the Native American Employment and Training Council. (WIA sec. 166(h)(2).)
§ 668.140
What WIA regulations apply to the INA program?
(a) The regulations found in this subpart.
(b) The general administrative requirements found in 20 CFR part 667, including the regulations concerning Complaints, Investigations and Hearings found at 20 CFR part 667, subpart E through subpart H.
(c) The Department's regulations codifying the common rules implementing Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars which generally apply to Federal programs carried out by Indian tribal governments and nonprofit organizations, at 29 CFR parts 95, 96, 97, and 99 as applicable.
(d) The Department's regulations at 29 CFR part 37, which implement the nondiscrimination provisions of WIA section 188, apply to recipients of financial assistance under WIA section 166.
§ 668.150
What definitions apply to terms used in the regulations in this part?
In addition to the definitions found in WIA sections 101 and 166 and 20 CFR 660.300, the following definitions apply:
DINAP
means the Division of Indian and Native American Programs within the Employment and Training Administration of the Department.
Governing body
means a body of representatives who are duly elected, appointed by duly elected officials, or selected according to traditional tribal means. A governing body must have the authority to provide services to and to enter into grants on behalf of the organization that selected or designated it.
Grant Officer
means a Department of Labor official authorized to obligate Federal funds. Indian or Native American (INA)
Grantee
means an entity which is formally designated under subpart B of this part to operate an INA program and which has a grant agreement under § 668.292.
NEW
means the Native Employment Works Program, the tribal work program authorized under section 412(a)(2) of the Social Security Act, as amended by the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act (Public Law 104-193).
Underemployed
means an individual who is working part time but desires full time employment, or who is working in employment not commensurate with the individual's demonstrated level of educational and/or skill achievement.

# Subpart B—Service Delivery Systems Applicable to Section 166 Programs
§ 668.200
What are the requirements for designation as an “Indian or Native American (INA) grantee”?
(a) To be designated as an INA grantee, an entity must have:
(1) A legal status as a government or as an agency of a government, private non-profit corporation, or a consortium which contains at least one of these entities;
(2) The ability to administer INA program funds, as defined at § 668.220; and
(3) A new (non-incumbent) entity must have a population within the designated geographic service area which would provide funding under the funding formula found at § 668.296(b) in the amount of at least $100,000, including any amounts received for supplemental youth services under the funding formula at § 668.440(a). Incumbent grantees which do not meet this dollar threshold for Program Year (PY) 2000 and beyond will be grandfathered in. We will make an exception for grantees wishing to participate in the demonstration program under Public Law 102-477 if all resources to be consolidated under the Public Law 102-477 plan total at least $100,000, with at least $20,000 derived from section 166 funds as determined by the most recent Census data. Exceptions to this $20,000 limit may be made for those entities which are close to the limit and which have demonstrated the capacity to administer Federal funds and operate a successful employment and training program.
(b) To be designated as a Native American grantee, a consortium or its members must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and must:
(1) Be in close proximity to one another, but they may operate in more than one State;
(2) Have an administrative unit legally authorized to run the program and to commit the other members to contracts, grants, and other legally-binding agreements; and
(3) Be jointly and individually responsible for the actions and obligations of the consortium, including debts.
(c) Entities potentially eligible for designation under paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section are:
(1) Federally-recognized Indian tribes;
(2) Tribal organizations, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b;
(3) Alaska Native-controlled organizations representing regional or village areas, as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act;
(4) Native Hawaiian-controlled entities;
(5) Native American-controlled organizations serving Indians; and
(6) Consortia of eligible entities which individually meets the legal requirements for a consortium described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(d) Under WIA section 166(d)(2)(B), individuals who were eligible to participate under section 401 of JTPA on August 6, 1998, remain eligible to participate under section 166 of WIA. State-recognized tribal organizations serving such individuals are considered to be
“Native American controlled” for WIA section 166 purposes.
§ 668.210
What priority for designation is given to eligible organizations?
(a) Federally-recognized Indian tribes, Alaska Native entities, or consortia that include a tribe or entity will have the highest priority for designation. To be designated, the organizations must meet the requirements in this subpart. These organizations will be designated for those geographic areas and/or populations over which they have legal jurisdiction. (WIA sec. 166(c)(1).)
(b) If we decide not to designate Indian tribes or Alaska Native entities to serve their service areas, we will enter into arrangements to provide services with entities which the tribes or Alaska Native entities involved approve.
(c) In geographic areas not served by Indian tribes or Alaska Native entities, entities with a Native American-controlled governing body and which are representative of the Native American community or communities involved will have priority for designation.
§ 668.220
What is meant by the “ability to administer funds” for designation purposes?
An organization has the “ability to administer funds” if it:
(a) Is in compliance with Departmental debt management procedures, if applicable;
(b) Has not been found guilty of fraud or criminal activity which would affect the entity's ability to safeguard Federal funds or deliver program services;
(c) Can demonstrate that it has or can acquire the necessary program and financial management personnel to safeguard Federal funds and effectively deliver program services; and
(d) Can demonstrate that it has successfully carried out, or has the capacity to successfully carry out activities that will strengthen the ability of the individuals served to obtain or retain unsubsidized employment.
§ 668.230
How will we determine an entity's “ability to administer funds”?
(a) Before determining which entity to designate for a particular service area, we will conduct a review of the entity's ability to administer funds.
(b) The review for an entity that has served as a grantee in either of the two designation periods before the one under consideration, also will consider the extent of compliance with the WIA regulations. Evidence of the ability to administer funds may be established by a satisfactory Federal audit record. It may also be established by a recent record showing substantial compliance with Federal record keeping, reporting, program performance standards, or similar standards imposed on grantees by this or other public sector supported programs.
(c) For other entities, the review includes the experience of the entity's management in administering funds for services to Native American people. This review also includes an assessment of the relationship between the entity and the Native American community or communities to be served.
[65 FR 49435, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 35524, June 21, 2006]
§ 668.240
What is the process for applying for designation as an INA grantee?
(a) Every entity seeking designation must submit a Notice of Intent (NOI) which complies with the requirements of the Solicitation for Grant Application (SGA). An SGA will be issued every two years, covering all areas except for those for which competition is waived for the incumbent grantee under WIA section 166(c)(2).
(b) NOI's must be submitted to the Chief of DINAP, bearing a U.S. Postal Service postmark indicating its submission no later than October 1st of the year which precedes the first year of a new designation cycle (unless the SGA provides a later date). For NOI's received after October 1, only a timely official U.S. Postal Service postmark is acceptable as proof of timely submission. Dates indicating submission by private express delivery services or metered mail are unacceptable as proof of the timely submission of designation documents.
(c) NOI's must include the following:
(1) Documentation of the legal status of the entity, as described in § 668.200(a)(1);
(2) A Standard Form (SF) 424b;
(3) The assurances required by 29 CFR 37.20;
(4) A specific description, by State, county, reservation or similar area, or service population, of the geographic area for which the entity requests designation;
(5) A brief summary of the employment and training or human resource development programs serving Native Americans that the entity currently operates or has operated within the previous two-year period;
(6) A description of the planning process used by the entity, including the involvement of the governing body and local employers;
(7) Evidence to establish an entity's ability to administer funds under §§ 668.220 through 668.230.
§ 668.250
What happens if two or more entities apply for the same area?
(a) Every two years, unless there has been a waiver of competition for the area, we issue a Solicitation for Grant Application (SGA) seeking applicants for INA program grants.
(b) If two or more entities apply for grants for the same service area, or for overlapping service areas, and a waiver of competition under WIA section 166(c)(2) is not granted to the incumbent grantee, the following additional procedures apply:
(1) The Grant Officer will follow the regulations for priority designation at § 668.210.
(2) If no applicant is entitled to priority designation, DINAP will inform each entity which submitted a NOI, including the incumbent grantee, in writing, of all the competing Notices of Intent no later than November 15 of the year the NOI's are received.
(3) Each entity will have an opportunity to describe its service plan, and may submit additional information addressing the requirements of § 668.240(c) or such other information as the applicant determines is appropriate. Revised Notices must be received or contain an official U.S. Postal Service postmark, no later than January 5th (unless a later date is provided in DINAP's information notice).
(4) The Grant Officer selects the entity that demonstrates the ability to produce the best outcomes for its customers.
§ 668.260
How are INA grantees designated?
(a) On March 1 of each designation year, we designate or conditionally designate Native American grantees for the coming two program years. The Grant Officer informs, in writing, each entity which submitted a Notice of Intent that the entity has been:
(1) Designated;
(2) Conditionally designated;
(3) Designated for only a portion of its requested area or population; or
(4) Denied designation.
(b) Designated Native American entities must ensure and provide evidence to DOL that a system is in place to afford all members of the eligible population within their service area an equitable opportunity to receive employment and training activities and services.
§ 668.270
What appeal rights are available to entities that are denied designation?
Any entity that is denied designation in whole or in part for the area or population that it requested may appeal the denial to the Office of the Administrative Law Judges using the procedures at 20 CFR 667.800 or the alternative dispute resolution procedures at 20 CFR 667.840. The Grant Officer will provide an entity whose request for designation was denied, in whole or in part, with a copy of the appeal procedures.
§ 668.280
Are there any other ways in which an entity may be designated as an INA grantee?
Yes, for an area which would otherwise go unserved. The Grant Officer may designate an entity, which has not submitted an NOI, but which meets the qualifications for designation, to serve the particular geographic area. Under such circumstances, DINAP will seek the views of Native American leaders in the area involved about the decision to designate the entity to serve that community. DINAP will inform the Grant Officer of their views. The Grant Officer will accommodate their views to the extent possible.
§ 668.290
Can an INA grantee's designation be terminated?
(a) Yes, the Grant Officer can terminate a grantee's designation for cause, or the Secretary or another DOL official confirmed by the Senate can terminate a grantee's designation in emergency circumstances where termination is necessary to protect the integrity of Federal funds or ensure the proper operation of the program. (WIA sec. 184(e).)
(b) The Grant Officer may terminate a grantee's designation for cause only if there is a substantial or persistent violation of the requirements in the Act or the WIA regulations. The grantee must be provided with written notice 60 days before termination, stating the specific reasons why termination is proposed. The appeal procedures at 20 CFR 667.800 apply.
(c) The Secretary must give a grantee terminated in emergency circumstances prompt notice of the termination and an opportunity for a hearing within 30 days of the termination.
§ 668.292
How does a designated entity become an INA grantee?
A designated entity becomes a grantee on the effective date of an executed grant agreement, signed by the authorized official of the grantee organization and the Grant Officer. The grant agreement includes a set of certifications and assurances that the grantee will comply with the terms of the Act, the WIA regulations, and other appropriate requirements. Funds are released to the grantee upon approval of the required planning documents, as described in §§ 668.710 through 668.740.
§ 668.294
Do we have to designate an INA grantee for every part of the country?
No, beginning with the PY 2000 grant awards, if there are no entities meeting the requirements for designation in a particular area, or willing to serve that area, we will not allocate funds for that service area. The funds allocated to that area will be distributed to the remaining INA grantees, or used for other program purposes such as technical assistance and training (TAT). Unawarded funds used for technical assistance and training are in addition to, and not subject to the limitations on, amounts reserved under § 668.296(e). Areas which are unserved by the INA program may be restored during a subsequent designation cycle, when and if a current grantee or other eligible entity applies for and is designated to serve that area.
§ 668.296
How are WIA funds allocated to INA grantees?
(a) Except for reserved funds described in paragraph (e) of this section and funds used for program purposes under § 668.294, all funds available for WIA section 166(d)(2)(A)(i) comprehensive workforce investment services program at the beginning of a Program Year will be allocated to Native American grantees for their designated geographic service areas.
(b) Each INA grantee will receive the sum of the funds calculated under the following formula:
(1) One-quarter of the funds available will be allocated on the basis of the number of unemployed Native American persons in the grantee's designated INA service area(s) compared to all such persons in all such areas in the United States.
(2) Three-quarters of the funds available will be allocated on the basis of the number of Native American persons in poverty in the grantee's designated INA service area(s) as compared to all such persons in all such areas in the United States.
(3) The data and definitions used to implement these formulas is provided by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
(c) In years immediately following the use of new data in the formula described in paragraph (b) of this section, based upon criteria to be described in the SGA, we may utilize a hold harmless factor to reduce the disruption in grantee services which would otherwise result from changes in funding levels. This factor will be determined in consultation with the grantee community and the Native American Employment and Training Council.
(d) We may reallocate funds from one INA grantee to another if a grantee is unable to serve its area for any reason, such as audit or debt problems, criminal activity, internal (political) strife,
or lack of ability or interest. Funds may also be reallocated if a grantee has carry-in excess of 20 percent of the total funds available to it. Carry-in amounts greater than 20 percent but less than 25 percent of total funds available may be allowed under an approved waiver issued by DINAP.
(e) We may reserve up to one percent (1 percent) of the funds appropriated under WIA section 166(d)(2)(A)(i) for any Program Year for TAT purposes. Technical assistance will be provided in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council.

# Subpart C—Services to Customers
§ 668.300
Who is eligible to receive services under the INA program?
(a) A person is eligible to receive services under the INA program if that person is:
(1) An Indian, as determined by a policy of the Native American grantee. The grantee's definition must at least include anyone who is a member of a Federally-recognized tribe; or
(2) An Alaska Native, as defined in section 3(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA), 43 U.S.C. 1602(b); or
(3) A Native Hawaiian, as defined in WIA section 166(b)(3).
(b) The person must also be any one of the following:
(1) Unemployed; or
(2) Underemployed, as defined in § 668.150; or
(3) A low-income individual, as defined in WIA section 101(25); or
(4) The recipient of a bona fide lay-off notice which has taken effect in the last six months or will take effect in the following six month period, who is unlikely to return to a previous industry or occupation, and who is in need of retraining for either employment with another employer or for job retention with the current employer; or
(5) An individual who is employed, but is determined by the grantee to be in need of employment and training services to obtain or retain employment that allows for self-sufficiency.
(c) If applicable, male applicants must also register or be registered for the Selective Service.
(d) For purposes of determining whether a person is a low-income individual under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, we will issue guidance for the determination of family income. (WIA sec. 189(h).)
§ 668.340
What are INA grantee allowable activities?
(a) The INA grantee may provide any services consistent with the purposes of this section that are necessary to meet the needs of Native Americans preparing to enter, reenter, or retain unsubsidized employment. (WIA sec. 166(d)(1)(B).) Comprehensive workforce investment activities authorized under WIA section 166(d)(2) include:
(b) Core services, which must be delivered in partnership with the One-Stop delivery system, include:
(1) Outreach;
(2) Intake;
(3) Orientation to services available;
(4) Initial assessment of skill levels, aptitudes, abilities and supportive service needs;
(5) Eligibility certification;
(6) Job Search and placement assistance;
(7) Career counseling;
(8) Provision of employment statistics information and local, regional, and national Labor Market Information;
(9) Provision of information about filing of Unemployment Insurance claims;
(10) Assistance in establishing eligibility for Welfare-to-Work programs;
(11) Assistance in establishing eligibility for financial assistance for training;
(12) Provision of information about supportive services;
(13) Provision of performance and cost information relating to training providers and training services; and
(14) Follow-up services.
(c) Allowable intensive services which include:
(1) Comprehensive and specialized testing and assessment;
(2) Development of an individual employment plan;
(3) Group counseling;
(4) Individual counseling and career planning;
(5) Case Management for seeking training services;
(6) Short term pre-vocational services;
(7) Work experience in the public or private sector;
(8) Tryout employment;
(9) Dropout prevention activities;
(10) Supportive services; and
(11) Other services identified in the approved Two Year Plan.
(d) Allowable training services which include:
(1) Occupational skill training;
(2) On-the-job training;
(3) Programs that combine workplace training with related instruction, which may include cooperative education programs;
(4) Training programs operated by the private sector;
(5) Skill upgrading and retraining;
(6) Entrepreneurial and small business development technical assistance and training;
(7) Job readiness training;
(8) Adult basic education, GED attainment, literacy training, and English language training, provided alone or in combination with training or intensive services described paragraphs (c)(1) through (11) and (d)(1) through (10) of this section;
(9) Customized training conducted with a commitment by an employer or group of employers to employ an individual upon successful completion of training; and
(10) Educational and tuition assistance.
(e) Allowable activities specifically designed for youth are identified in section 129 of the Act and include:
(1) Improving educational and skill competencies;
(2) Adult mentoring;
(3) Training opportunities;
(4) Supportive services, as defined in WIA section 101(46);
(5) Incentive programs for recognition and achievement;
(6) Opportunities for leadership development, decision-making, citizenship and community service;
(7) Preparation for postsecondary education, academic and occupational learning, unsubsidized employment opportunities, and other effective connections to intermediaries with strong links to the job market and local and regional employers;
(8) Tutoring, study skills training, and other drop-out prevention strategies;
(9) Alternative secondary school services;
(10) Summer employment opportunities that are directly linked to academic and occupational learning;
(11) Paid and unpaid work experiences, including internships and job shadowing;
(12) Occupational skill training;
(13) Leadership development opportunities, as defined in 20 CFR 664.420;
(14) Follow-up services, as defined in 20 CFR 664.450;
(15) Comprehensive guidance and counseling, which may include drug and alcohol abuse counseling and referral; and
(16) Information and referral.
(f) In addition, allowable activities include job development and employment outreach, including:
(1) Support of the Tribal Employment Rights Office (TERO) program;
(2) Negotiation with employers to encourage them to train and hire participants;
(3) Establishment of linkages with other service providers to aid program participants;
(4) Establishment of management training programs to support tribal administration or enterprises; and
(5) Establishment of linkages with remedial education, such as Adult Basic Education (ABE), basic literacy training, and English-as-a-second-language (ESL) training programs, as necessary.
(g) Participants may be enrolled in more than one activity at a time and may be sequentially enrolled in multiple activities.
(h) INA grantees may provide any services which may be carried out by fund recipients under any provisions of the Act. (WIA sec. 166(d).)
(i) In addition, INA grantees must develop programs which contribute to occupational development, upward mobility, development of new careers, and opportunities for nontraditional employment. (WIA sec. 195(1).)
§ 668.350
Are there any restrictions on allowable activities?
(a) All occupational training must be for occupations for which there are employment opportunities in the local area or another area to which the participant is willing to relocate. (WIA sec. 134(d)(4)(A)(iii).)
(b) INA grantees must provide OJT services consistent with the definition provided in WIA section 101(31) and other limitations in the Act. Individuals in OJT must:
(1) Be compensated at the same rates, including periodic increases, as trainees or employees who are similarly situated in similar occupations by the same employer and who have similar training, experience, and skills (WIA sec. 181(a)(1)); and
(2) Be provided benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other trainees or employees working a similar length of time and doing the same type of work. (WIA sec. 181(b)(5).)
(c) In addition, OJT contracts under this title must not be entered into with employers who have:
(1) Received payments under previous contracts and have exhibited a pattern of failing to provide OJT participants with continued, long-term employment as regular employees with wages and employment benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as other employees working a similar length of time and doing the same work; or
(2) Who have violated paragraphs (b)(1) and/or (2) of this section. (WIA sec. 195(4).)
(d) INA grantees are prohibited from using funds to encourage the relocation of a business, as described in WIA section 181(d) and 20 CFR 667.268.
(e) INA grantees must only use WIA funds for activities which are in addition to those that would otherwise be available to the Native American population in the area in the absence of such funds. (WIA sec. 195(2).)
(f) INA grantees must not spend funds on activities that displace currently employed individuals, impair existing contracts for services, or in any way affect union organizing.
(g) Under 20 CFR 667.266, sectarian activities involving WIA financial assistance or participants are limited in accordance with the provisions of 29 CFR 37.6(f). (WIA sec. 181(b).)
§ 668.360
What is the role of INA grantees in the One-Stop system?
(a) In those local workforce investment areas where an INA grantee conducts field operations or provides substantial services, the INA grantee is a required partner in the local One-Stop delivery system and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in 20 CFR part 662. Consistent with those provisions, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the INA grantee and the Local Board over the operation of the One-Stop Center(s) in the Local Board's workforce investment area also must be executed. Where the Local Board is an alternative entity under 20 CFR 661.330, the INA grantee must negotiate with the alternative entity on the terms of its MOU and the scope of its on-going role in the local workforce investment system, as specified in 20 CFR 661.310(b)(2). In local areas with a large concentration of potentially eligible INA participants, which are in an INA grantee's service area but in which the grantee does not conduct operations or provide substantial services, the INA grantee should encourage such individuals to participate in the One-Stop system in that area in order to receive WIA services.
(b) At a minimum, the MOU must contain provisions related to:
(1) The services to be provided through the One-Stop Service System;
(2) The methods for referral of individuals between the One-Stop operator and the INA grantee which take into account the services provided by the INA grantee and the other One-Stop partners;
(3) The exchange of information on the services available and accessible through the One-Stop system and the INA program;
(4) As necessary to provide referrals and case management services, the exchange of information on Native American participants in the One-Stop system and the INA program;
(5) Arrangements for the funding of services provided by the One-Stop(s), consistent with the requirements at 20
CFR 662.280 that no expenditures may be made with INA program funds for individuals who are not eligible or for services not authorized under this part.
(c) The INA grantee's Two Year Plan must describe the efforts the grantee has made to negotiate MOU's consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, for each planning cycle during which Local Boards are operating under the terms of WIA.
§ 668.370
What policies govern payments to participants, including wages, training allowances or stipends, or direct payments for supportive services?
(a) INA grantees may pay training allowances or stipends to participants for their successful participation in and completion of education or training services (except such allowance may not be provided to participants in OJT). Allowances or stipends may not exceed the Federal or State minimum wage, whichever is higher.
(b) INA grantees may not pay a participant in a training activity when the person fails to participate without good cause.
(c) If a participant in a WIA-funded activity, including participants in OJT, is involved in an employer-employee relationship, that participant must be paid wages and fringe benefits at the same rates as trainees or employees who have similar training, experience and skills and which are not less than the higher of the applicable Federal, State or local minimum wage. (WIA sec. 181(a)(1).)
(d) In accordance with the policy described in the two-year plan, INA grantees may pay incentive bonuses to participants who meet or exceed individual employability or training goals established in writing in the individual employment plan.
(e) INA grantees must comply with other restrictions listed in WIA sections 181 through 199, which apply to all programs funded under title I of WIA.
(f) INA grantees must comply with the provisions on labor standards in WIA section 181(b).
§ 668.380
What will we do to strengthen the capacity of INA grantees to deliver effective services?
We will provide appropriate TAT, as necessary, to INA grantees. This TAT will assist INA grantees to improve program performance and enhance services to the target population(s), as resources permit. (WIA sec. 166(h)(5).)

# Subpart D—Supplemental Youth Services
§ 668.400
What is the purpose of the supplemental youth services program?
The purpose of this program is to provide supplemental employment and training and related services to Native American youth on or near Indian reservations, or in Oklahoma, Alaska, and Hawaii. (WIA sec. 166(d)(2)(A)(ii).)
§ 668.410
What entities are eligible to receive supplemental youth services funding?
Eligible recipients for supplemental youth services funding are limited to those tribal, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian and Oklahoma tribal grantees funded under WIA section 166(d)(2)(A)(i), or other grantees serving those areas and/or populations specified in § 668.400, that received funding under title II-B of the Job Training Partnership Act, or that are designated to serve an eligible area as specified in WIA section 166(d)(2)(A)(ii).
§ 668.420
What are the planning requirements for receiving supplemental youth services funding?
Beginning with PY 2000, eligible INA grantees must describe the supplemental youth services which they intend to provide in their Two Year Plan (described more fully in §§ 668.710 and 668.720). This Plan includes the target population the grantee intends to serve, for example, drop-outs, juvenile offenders, and/or college students. It also includes the performance measures/standards to be utilized to measure program progress.
§ 668.430
What individuals are eligible to receive supplemental youth services?
(a) Participants in supplemental youth services activities must be Native Americans, as determined by the INA grantee according to § 668.300(a), and must meet the definition of Eligible Youth, as defined in WIA section 101(13).
(b) Youth participants must be low-income individuals, except that not more than five percent (5%) who do not meet the minimum income criteria, may be considered eligible youth if they meet one or more of the following categories:
(1) School dropouts;
(2) Basic skills deficient as defined in WIA section 101(4);
(3) Have educational attainment that is one or more grade levels below the grade level appropriate to their age group;
(4) Pregnant or parenting;
(5) Have disabilities, including learning disabilities;
(6) Homeless or runaway youth;
(7) Offenders; or
(8) Other eligible youth who face serious barriers to employment as identified by the grantee in its Plan. (WIA sec. 129(c)(5).)
§ 668.440
How is funding for supplemental youth services determined?
(a) Beginning with PY 2000, supplemental youth funding will be allocated to eligible INA grantees on the basis of the relative number of Native American youth between the ages of 14 and 21, inclusive, in the grantee's designated INA service area as compared to the number of Native American youth in other eligible INA service areas. We reserve the right to redetermine this youth funding stream in future program years, in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council, as program experience warrants and as appropriate data become available.
(b) The data used to implement this formula is provided by the U.S. Bureau of the Census.
(c) The hold harmless factor described in § 668.296(c) also applies to supplemental youth services funding. This factor also will be determined in consultation with the grantee community and the Native American Employment and Training Council.
(d) The reallocation provisions of § 668.296(d) also apply to supplemental youth services funding.
(e) Any supplemental youth services funds not allotted to a grantee or refused by a grantee may be used for the purposes outlined in § 668.296(e), as described in § 668.294. Any such funds are in addition to, and not subject to the limitations on, amounts reserved under § 668.296(e).
§ 668.450
How will supplemental youth services be provided?
(a) INA grantees may offer supplemental services to youth throughout the school year, during the summer vacation, and/or during other breaks during the school year at their discretion;
(b) We encourage INA grantees to work with Local Educational Agencies to provide academic credit for youth activities whenever possible;
(c) INA grantees may provide participating youth with the activities listed in 20 CFR 668.340(e).
§ 668.460
Are there performance measures and standards applicable to the supplemental youth services program?
Yes, WIA section 166(e)(5) requires that the program plan contain a description of the performance measures to be used to assess the performance of grantees in carrying out the activities assisted under this section. We will develop specific indicators of performance and levels of performance for supplemental youth services activities in partnership with the Native American Employment and Training Council, and will transmit them to INA grantees as an administrative issuance.

# Subpart E—Services to Communities
§ 668.500
What services may INA grantees provide to or for employers under section 166?
(a) INA grantees may provide a variety of services to employers in their areas. These services may include:
(1) Workforce planning which involves the recruitment of current or
potential program participants, including job restructuring services;
(2) Recruitment and assessment of potential employees, with priority given to potential employees who are or who might become eligible for program services;
(3) Pre-employment training;
(4) Customized training;
(5) On-the-Job training (OJT);
(6) Post-employment services, including training and support services to encourage job retention and upgrading;
(7) Work experience for public or private sector work sites;
(8) Other innovative forms of worksite training.
(b) In addition to the services listed in paragraph (a) of this section, other grantee-determined services (as described in the grantee's Two Year Plan) which are intended to assist eligible participants to obtain or retain employment may also be provided to or for employers.
§ 668.510
What services may INA grantees provide to the community at large under section 166?
(a) INA grantees may provide services to the Native American communities in their designated service areas by engaging in program development and service delivery activities which:
(1) Strengthen the capacity of Native American-controlled institutions to provide education and work-based learning services to Native American youth and adults, whether directly or through other Native American institutions such as tribal colleges;
(2) Increase the community's capacity to deliver supportive services, such as child care, transportation, housing, health, and similar services needed by clients to obtain and retain employment;
(3) Use program participants engaged in education, training, work experience, or similar activities to further the economic and social development of Native American communities in accordance with the goals and values of those communities; and
(4) Engage in other community-building activities described in the INA grantee's Two Year Plan.
(b) INA grantees should develop their Two Year Plan in conjunction with, and in support of, strategic tribal planning and community development goals.
§ 668.520
Must INA grantees give preference to Indian/Native American entities in the selection of contractors or service providers?
Yes, INA grantees must give as much preference as possible to Indian organizations and to Indian-owned economic enterprises, as defined in section 3 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452), when awarding any contract or subgrant.
§ 668.530
What rules govern the issuance of contracts and/or subgrants?
In general, INA grantees must follow the rules of OMB Circulars A-102 (for tribes) or A-110 (for private non-profits) when awarding contracts and/or subgrants under WIA section 166. The common rules implementing those circulars are codified for DOL-funded programs at 29 CFR part 97 (A-102) or 29 CFR part 95 (A-110), and covered in the WIA regulations at 20 CFR 667.200. These rules do not apply to OJT contract awards.

# Subpart F—Accountability for Services and Expenditures
§ 668.600
To whom is the INA grantee accountable for the provision of services and the expenditure of INA funds?
(a) The INA grantee is responsible to the Native American community to be served by INA funds.
(b) The INA grantee is also responsible to the Department of Labor, which is charged by law with ensuring that all WIA funds are expended:
(1) According to applicable laws and regulations;
(2) For the benefit of the identified Native American client group; and
(3) For the purposes approved in the grantee's plan and signed grant document.
§ 668.610
How is this accountability documented and fulfilled?
(a) Each INA grantee must establish its own internal policies and procedures to ensure accountability to the
INA grantee's governing body, as the representative of the Native American community(ies) served by the INA program. At a minimum, these policies and procedures must provide a system for governing body review and oversight of program plans and measures and standards for program performance.
(b) Accountability to the Department is accomplished in part through on-site program reviews (monitoring), which strengthen the INA grantee's capability to deliver effective services and protect the integrity of Federal funds.
(c) In addition to audit information, as described at § 668.850 and program reviews, accountability to the Department is documented and fulfilled by the submission of reports. For the purposes of report submission, a postmark or date indicating receipt by a private express delivery service is acceptable proof of timely submission. These report requirements are as follows:
(1) Each INA grantee must submit an annual report on program participants and activities. This report must be received no later than 90 days after the end of the Program Year, and may be combined with the report on program expenditures. The reporting format is developed by DINAP, in consultation with the Native American Advisory Council, and published in the
Federal Register.
(2) Each INA grantee must submit an annual report on program expenditures. This report must be received no later than 90 days after the end of the Program Year, and may be combined with the report on program participants and activities.
(3) INA grantees are encouraged, but not required, to submit a descriptive narrative with their annual reports describing the barriers to successful plan implementation they have encountered. This narrative should also discuss program successes and other notable occurrences that effected the INA grantee's overall performance that year.
(4) Each INA grantee may be required to submit interim reports on program participants and activities and/or program expenditures during the Program Year. Interim reports must be received no later than 45 days after the end of the reporting period.
§ 668.620
What performance measures are in place for the INA program?
Indicators of performance measures and levels of performance in use for INA program will be those indicators and standards proposed in individual grantee plans and approved by us, in accordance with guidelines we will develop in consultation with INA grantees under WIA section 166(h)(2)(A).
§ 668.630
What are the requirements for preventing fraud and abuse under section 166?
(a) Each INA grantee must implement program and financial management procedures to prevent fraud and abuse. Such procedures must include a process which enables the grantee to take action against contractors or subgrantees to prevent any misuse of funds. (WIA sec. 184.)
(b) Each INA grantee must have rules to prevent conflict of interest by its governing body. These conflict of interest rules must include a rule prohibiting any member of any governing body or council associated with the INA grantee from voting on any matter which would provide a direct financial benefit to that member, or to a member of his or her immediate family, in accordance with 20 CFR 667.200(a)(4) and 29 CFR 97.36(b) or 29 CFR 95.42.
(c) Officers or agents of the INA grantee must not solicit or personally accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from any actual or potential contractor, subgrantee, vendor or participant. This rule must also apply to officers or agents of the grantee's contractors and/or subgrantees. This prohibition does not apply to:
(1) Any rebate, discount or similar incentive provided by a vendor to its customers as a regular feature of its business;
(2) Items of nominal monetary value distributed consistent with the cultural practices of the Native American community served by the grantee.
(d) No person who selects program participants or authorizes the services provided to them may select or authorize services to any participant who is such a person's husband, wife, father,
mother, brother, sister, son, or daughter unless:
(1)(i) The participant involved is a low income individual; or
(ii) The community in which the participant resides has a population of less than 1,000 Native American people; and
(2) The INA grantee has adopted and implemented the policy described in the Two Year Plan to prevent favoritism on behalf of such relatives.
(e) INA grantees are subject to the provisions of 41 U.S.C. 53 relating to kickbacks.
(f) No assistance provided under this Act may involve political activities. (WIA sec. 195(6).)
(g) INA grantees may not use funds under this Act for lobbying, as provided in 29 CFR part 93.
(h) The provisions of 18 U.S.C. 665 and 666 prohibiting embezzlement apply to programs under WIA.
(i) Recipients of financial assistance under WIA section 168 are prohibited from discriminatory practices as outlined at WIA section 188, and the regulations implementing WIA section 188, at 29 CFR part 37. However, this does not affect the legal requirement that all INA participants be Native American. Also, INA grantees are not obligated to serve populations other than those for which they were designated.
§ 668.640
What grievance systems must a section 166 program provide?
INA grantees must establish grievance procedures consistent with the requirements of WIA section 181(c) and 20 CFR 667.600.
§ 668.650
Can INA grantees exclude segments of the eligible population?
(a) No, INA grantees cannot exclude segments of the eligible population. INA grantees must document in their Two Year Plan that a system is in place to afford all members of the eligible population within the service area for which the grantee was designated an equitable opportunity to receive WIA services and activities.
(b) Nothing in this section restricts the ability of INA grantees to target subgroups of the eligible population (for example, the disabled, substance abusers, TANF recipients, or similar categories), as outlined in an approved Two Year Plan. However, it is unlawful to target services to subgroups on grounds prohibited by WIA section 188 and 29 CFR part 37, including tribal affilitation (which is considered national origin). Outreach efforts, on the other hand, may be targeted to any subgroups.

# Subpart G—Section 166 Planning/Funding Process
§ 668.700
What process must an INA grantee use to plan its employment and training services?
(a) An INA grantee may utilize the planning procedures it uses to plan other activities and services.
(b) However, in the process of preparing its Two Year Plan for Native American WIA services, the INA grantee must consult with:
(1) Customers or prospective customers of such services;
(2) Prospective employers of program participants or their representatives;
(3) Service providers, including local educational agencies, which can provide services which support or are complementary to the grantee's own services; and
(4) Tribal or other community officials responsible for the development and administration of strategic community development efforts.
§ 668.710
What planning documents must an INA grantee submit?
Each grantee receiving funds under WIA section 166 must submit to DINAP a comprehensive services plan and a projection of participant services and expenditures covering the two-year planning cycle. We will, in consultation with the Native American Advisory Council, issue budget and planning instructions which grantees must use when preparing their plan.
§ 668.720
What information must these planning documents contain?
(a) The comprehensive services plan must cover the two Program Years included within a designation cycle. According to planning instructions issued by the Department, the comprehensive services plan must describe in narrative form:
(1) The specific goals of the INA grantee's program for the two Program Years involved;
(2) The method the INA grantee will use to target its services to specific segments of its service population;
(3) The array of services which the INA grantee intends to make available;
(4) The system the INA grantee will use to be accountable for the results of its program services. Such results must be judged in terms of the outcomes for individual participants and/or the benefits the program provides to the Native American community(ies) which the INA grantee serves. Plans must include the performance information required by § 668.620;
(5) The ways in which the INA grantee will seek to integrate or coordinate and ensure nonduplication of its employment and training services with:
(i) The One-Stop delivery system in its local workforce investment area, including a description of any MOU's which affect the grantee's participation;
(ii) Other services provided by Local Workforce Investment Boards;
(iii) Other program operators;
(iv) Other services available within the grantee organization; and
(v) Other services which are available to Native Americans in the community, including planned participation in the One-Stop system.
(b) Eligible INA grantees must include in their plan narratives a description of activities planned under the supplemental youth program, including items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(c) INA grantees must be prepared to justify the amount of proposed Administrative Costs, utilizing the definition at 20 CFR 667.220.
(d) INA grantees' plans must contain a projection of participant services and expenditures for each Program Year, consistent with guidance issued by the Department.
§ 668.730
When must these plans be submitted?
(a) The two-year plans are due at a date specified by DINAP in the year in which the two-year designation cycle begins. We will announce exact submission dates in the biennial planning instructions.
(b) Plans from INA grantees who are eligible for supplemental youth services funds must include their supplemental youth plans as part of their regular Two Year Plan.
(c) INA grantees must submit modifications for the second year reflecting exact funding amounts, after the individual allotments have been determined. We will announce the time for their submission, which will be no later than June 1 prior to the beginning of the second year of the designation cycle.
§ 668.740
How will we review and approve such plans?
(a) We will approve a grantee's planning documents before the date on which funds for the program become available unless:
(1) The planning documents do not contain the information specified in the regulations in this part and Departmental planning guidance; or
(2) The services which the INA grantee proposes are not permitted under WIA or applicable regulations.
(b) We may approve a portion of the plan, and disapprove other portions. The grantee also has the right to appeal the decision to the Office of the Administrative Law Judges under the procedures at 20 CFR 667.800 or 667.840. While the INA grantee exercises its right to appeal, the grantee must implement the approved portions of the plan.
(c) If we disapprove all or part of an INA grantee's plan, and that disapproval is sustained in the appeal process, the INA grantee will be given the opportunity to amend its plan so that it can be approved.
(d) If an INA grantee's plan is amended but is still disapproved, the grantee will have the right to appeal the decision to the Offices of the Administrative Law Judges under the procedures at 20 CFR 667.800 or 667.840.
§ 668.750
Under what circumstances can we or the INA grantee modify the terms of the grantee's plan(s)?
(a) We may unilaterally modify the INA grantee's plan to add funds or, if
required by Congressional action, to reduce the amount of funds available for expenditure.
(b) The INA grantee may request approval to modify its plan to add, expand, delete, or diminish any service allowable under the regulations in this part. The INA grantee may modify its plan without our approval, unless the modification reduces the total number of participants to be served annually under the grantee's program by a number which exceeds 25 percent of the participants previously proposed to be served, or by 25 participants, whichever is larger.
(c) We will act upon any modification within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the proposed modification. In the event that further clarification or modification is required, we may extend the thirty (30) day time frame to conclude appropriate negotiations.

# Subpart H—Administrative Requirements
§ 668.800
What systems must an INA grantee have in place to administer an INA program?
(a) Each INA grantee must have a written system describing the procedures the grantee uses for:
(1) The hiring and management of personnel paid with program funds;
(2) The acquisition and management of property purchased with program funds;
(3) Financial management practices;
(4) A participant grievance system which meets the requirements in section 181(c) of WIA and 20 CFR 667.600; and
(5) A participant records system.
(b) Participant records systems must include:
(1) A written or computerized record containing all the information used to determine the person's eligibility to receive program services;
(2) The participant's signature certifying that all the eligibility information he or she provided is true to the best of his/her knowledge; and
(3) The information necessary to comply with all program reporting requirements.
§ 668.810
What types of costs are allowable expenditures under the INA program?
Rules relating to allowable costs under WIA are covered in 20 CFR 667.200 through 667.220.
§ 668.820
What rules apply to administrative costs under the INA program?
The definition and treatment of administrative costs are covered in 20 CFR 667.210(b) and 667.220.
§ 668.825
Does the WIA administrative cost limit for States and local areas apply to section 166 grants?
No, under 20 CFR 667.210(b), limits on administrative costs for section 166 grants will be negotiated with the grantee and identified in the grant award document.
§ 668.830
How should INA program grantees classify costs?
Cost classification is covered in the WIA regulations at 20 CFR 667.200 through 667.220. For purposes of the INA program, program costs also include costs associated with other activities such as Tribal Employment Rights Office (TERO), and supportive services, as defined in WIA section 101(46).
§ 668.840
What cost principles apply to INA funds?
The cost principles described in OMB Circulars A-87 (for tribal governments), A-122 (for private non-profits), and A-21 (for educational institutions), and the regulations at 20 CFR 667.200(c), apply to INA grantees, depending on the nature of the grantee organization.
§ 668.850
What audit requirements apply to INA grants?
The audit requirements established under the Department's regulations at 29 CFR part 99, which implement OMB Circular A-133, apply to all Native American WIA grants. These regulations, for all of WIA title I, are cited at 20 CFR 667.200(b). Audit resolution procedures are covered at 20 CFR 667.500 and 667.510.
§ 668.860
What cash management procedures apply to INA grant funds?
INA grantees must draw down funds only as they actually need them. The U.S. Department of Treasury regulations which implement the Cash Management Improvement Act, found at 31 CFR part 205, apply by law to most recipients of Federal funds. Special rules may apply to those grantees required to keep their funds in interest-bearing accounts, and to grantees participating in the demonstration under Public Law 102-477.
§ 668.870
What is “program income” and how is it regulated in the INA program?
(a) Program income is defined and regulated by WIA section 195(7), 20 CFR 667.200(a)(5) and the applicable rules in 29 CFR parts 95 and 97.
(b) For grants made under this part, program income does not include income generated by the work of a work experience participant in an enterprise, including an enterprise owned by an Indian tribe or Alaska Native entity, whether in the public or private sector.
(c) Program income does not include income generated by the work of an OJT participant in an establishment under paragraph (b) of this section.

# Subpart I—Miscellaneous Program Provisions
§ 668.900
Does WIA provide regulatory and/or statutory waiver authority?
Yes, WIA section 166(h)(3) permits waivers of any statutory or regulatory requirement imposed upon INA grantees (except for the areas cited in § 668.920). Such waivers may include those necessary to facilitate WIA support of long term community development goals.
§ 668.910
What information is required to document a requested waiver?
To request a waiver, an INA grantee must submit a plan indicating how the waiver will improve the grantee's WIA program activities. We will provide further guidance on the waiver process, consistent with the provisions of WIA section 166(h)(3).
§ 668.920
What provisions of law or regulations may not be waived?
Requirements relating to:
(a) Wage and labor standards;
(b) Worker rights;
(c) Participation and protection of workers and participants;
(d) Grievance procedures;
(e) Judicial review; and
(f) Non-discrimination may not be waived. (WIA sec. 166(h)(3)(A).)
§ 668.930
May INA grantees combine or consolidate their employment and training funds?
Yes, INA grantees may consolidate their employment and training funds under WIA with assistance received from related programs in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-477) (25 U.S.C. 3401
et seq.
). Also, Federally-recognized tribes that administer INA funds and funds provided by more than one State under other sections of WIA title I may enter into an agreement with the Governors to transfer the State funds to the INA program. (WIA sec. 166(f) and (h)(6).)
§ 668.940
What is the role of the Native American Employment and Training Council?
The Native American Employment and Training Council is a body composed of representatives of the grantee community which advises the Secretary on all aspects of Native American employment and training program implementation. WIA section 166(h)(4) continues the Council essentially as it is currently constituted, with the exception that all the Council members no longer have to be Native American. However, the nature of the consultative process remains essentially unchanged. We continue to support the Council.
Pt. 669

# PART 669—NATIONAL FARMWORKER JOBS PROGRAM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
669.100
What is the purpose of the National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) and the other services and activities established under WIA section 167?
669.110
What definitions apply to this program?
669.120
How do we administer the NFJP program?
669.130
What unit within the Department administers the National Farmworker Jobs Program funded under WIA section 167?
669.140
How does the Division of Seasonal and Farmworker Programs (DSFP) assist the MSFW grantee organizations to serve farmworker customers?
669.150
How are regulations established for this program?
669.160
How do we consult with NFJP organizations in developing rules, regulations and standards of accountability, and other policy guidance for the NFJP?
669.170
What WIA regulations apply to the programs funded under WIA section 167?

# Subpart B—The Service Delivery System for the National Farmworker Jobs Program
669.200
Who is eligible to receive an NFJP grant?
669.210
How does an eligible entity become an NFJP grantee?
669.220
What is the role of the NFJP grantee in the One-Stop delivery system?
669.230
Can an NFJP grantee's designation be terminated?
669.240
How will we use funds appropriated under WIA section 167 for the NFJP?

# Subpart C—The National Farmworker Jobs Program Customers and Available Program Services
669.300
What are the general responsibilities of the NFJP grantees?
669.310
What are the basic components of an NFJP service delivery strategy?
669.320
Who is eligible to receive services under the NFJP?
669.330
How are services delivered to the customer?
669.340
What core services are available to eligible MSFW's?
669.350
How are core services delivered to MSFW's?
669.360
May grantees provide emergency assistance to MSFW's?
669.370
What intensive services may be provided to eligible MSFW's?
669.380
What is the objective assessment that is authorized as an intensive service?
669.400
What are the elements of the Individual Employment Plan that is authorized as an intensive service?
669.410
What training services may be provided to eligible MSFW's?
669.420
What must be included in an on-the-job training contract?
669.430
What Related Assistance services may be provided to eligible farmworkers?
669.440
When may farmworkers receive related assistance?

# Subpart D—Performance Accountability, Planning and Waiver Provision
669.500
What performance measures and standards apply to the NFJP?
669.510
What planning documents must an NFJP grantee submit?
669.520
What information is required in the NFJP grant plans?
669.530
What are the submission dates for these plans?
669.540
Under what circumstances are the terms of the grantee's plan modified by the grantee or the Department?
669.550
How are costs classified under the NFJP?
669.555
Do the WIA administrative cost limits for States and local areas apply to NFJP grants?
669.560
Are there regulatory and/or statutory waiver provisions that apply to WIA section 167?
669.570
What information is required to document a requested waiver?

# Subpart E—The MSFW Youth Program
669.600
What is the purpose of the WIA section 167 MSFW Youth Program?
669.610
What is the relationship between the MSFW youth program and the NFJP authorized at WIA section 167?
669.620
How do the MSFW youth program regulations apply to the NFJP programs authorized under WIA section 167?
669.630
What are the requirements for designation as an “MSFW youth program grantee”?
669.640
What is the process for applying for designation as an MSFW youth program grantee?
669.650
How are MSFW youth funds allocated to section 167 youth grantees?
669.660
What planning documents and information are required in the application for MSFW youth grants and when must they be filed?
669.670
Who is eligible to receive services under the section 167 MSFW youth program?
669.680
What activities and services may be provided under the MSFW youth program?

# Authority:
Section 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49445, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 669.100
What is the purpose of the National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) and the other services and activities established under WIA section 167?
The purpose of the NFJP, and the other services and activities established under WIA section 167, is to strengthen the ability of eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers and their families to achieve economic self-sufficiency. This part provides the regulatory requirements applicable to the expenditure of WIA section 167 funds for such programs, services and activities.
§ 669.110
What definitions apply to this program?
In addition to the definitions found in WIA sections 101 and 167 and in 20 CFR 660.300, the following definitions apply to programs under this part:
Allowances
means direct payments, which must not exceed the higher of the State or Federal minimum wage, made to NFJP participants during their enrollment to enable them to participate in intensive or training services.
Capacity enhancement
means the technical assistance we provide to grantees and grantee staff by the Department to improve the quality of the program and the delivery of program services to NFJP participants.
Dependent
means an individual who:
(1) Was claimed as a dependent on the qualifying farmworker's federal income tax return for the previous year; or
(2) Is the spouse of the qualifying farmworker; or
(3) If not claimed as a dependent for federal income tax purposes, is able to establish:
(i) A relationship as the farmworker's
(A) Child, grandchild, great grandchild, including legally adopted children;
(B) Stepchild;
(C) Brother, sister, half brother, half sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
(D) Parent, grandparent, or other direct ancestor but not foster parent;
(E) Foster child;
(F) Stepfather or stepmother;
(G) Uncle or aunt;
(H) Niece or nephew;
(I) Father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law; or
(J) Daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law; and
(ii) The receipt of over half of his/her total support from the eligible farmworker's family during the eligibility determination period.
Disadvantaged
means a farmworker whose income, for any 12 consecutive months out of the 24 months immediately before the farmworker applies for the program, does not exceed the higher of either the poverty line or 70 percent of the lower living standard income level, adjusted for the farmworker's family size and including the income of all wage earners, except when its inclusion would be unjust due to unstable conditions of the family unit.
DSFP
means the Division of Seasonal Farmworker Programs within the Employment and Training Administration of the Department, or a successor organizational unit.
Eligibility determination period
means any consecutive 12-month period within the 24-month period immediately preceding the date of application for the NFJP by the applicant farmworker.
Emergency assistance
means assistance that addresses immediate needs of farmworkers and their families, provided by NFJP grantees. Except for evidence to support legal working status in the United States and Selective Service registration, where applicable, the applicant's self-attestation is accepted as eligibility for emergency assistance.
Farmwork
means those occupations and industries within agricultural production and agricultural services that we identify for the National Farmworker Jobs Program.
Housing development assistance
within the NFJP, is a type of related assistance consisting of an organized program of education and on-site demonstrations about the basic elements of family housing and may include financing, site selection, permits and construction skills, leading towards home ownership.
MOU
means Memorandum of Understanding.
MSFW
means a Migrant or Seasonal Farmworker under WIA section 167.
MSFW program grantee
means an entity to which we directly award a WIA grant to carry out the MSFW program in one or more designated States or substate areas.
National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP)
is the nationally administered workforce investment program for farmworkers established by WIA section 167 as a required partner of the One-Stop system.
Related assistance
means short-term forms of direct assistance designed to assist farmworkers and their families to retain or stabilize their agricultural employment or enrollment in the NFJP.
Self-certification
means a farmworker's signed attestation that the information he/she submits to demonstrate eligibility for the NFJP is true and accurate.
Service area
means the geographical jurisdiction in which a WIA section 167 grantee is designated to operate.
Work experience
means a planned, structured learning experience that takes place in a workplace for a limited period of time. Work experience may be paid or unpaid, as appropriate.
§ 669.120
How do we administer the NFJP program?
This program is centrally administered by the Department of Labor in a manner consistent with the requirements of WIA section 167. As described in § 669.210, we designate grantees using procedures consistent with standard Federal government competitive procedures. We award other grants and contracts using similar competitive procedures.
§ 669.130
What unit within the Department administers the National Farmworker Jobs Program funded under WIA section 167?
We have designated the Division of Seasonal Farmworker Programs (DSFP), or its successor organization, within the Employment and Training Administration, as the organizational unit that administers the NFJP and other MSFW programs at the Federal level.
§ 669.140
How does the Division of Seasonal Farmworker Programs (DSFP) assist the MSFW grantee organizations to serve farmworker customers?
We provide technical assistance and training to MSFW grantees for the purposes of program implementation and program performance management leading to enhancement of services to and continuous improvement in the employment outcomes of farmworkers.
§ 669.150
How are regulations established for this program?
In developing regulations for WIA section 167, we consult with the Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker Employment and Training Advisory Committee. The regulations and program guidance consider the economic circumstances and demographics of eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers.
§ 669.160
How do we consult with NFJP organizations in developing rules, regulations and standards of accountability, and other policy guidance for the NFJP?
(a) We consider the NFJP grantee community as a full partner in the development of policies for the NFJPs under the Act.
(b) We have established and continue to support the Federal MSFW Employment and Training Advisory Committee. Through the Advisory Committee, we actively seek and consider the views of the grantee community before establishing policies and/or program regulations, according to the requirements of WIA section 167.
§ 669.170
What WIA regulations apply to the programs funded under WIA section 167?
(a) The regulations found in this part;
(b) The general administrative requirements found in 20 CFR part 667, including the regulations concerning Complaints, Investigations and Hearings found at 20 CFR part 667, subpart E through subpart H, which cover programs under WIA section 167;
(c) The Department's regulations codifying the common rules implementing Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars, which generally apply to Federal programs carried out by State and local governments and nonprofit organizations at 29 CFR parts 95, 96, 97, and 99, as applicable.
(d) The regulations on partnership responsibilities contained in 20 CFR parts 661 (Statewide and Local Governance) and 662 (the One-Stop System).
(e) The Department's regulations at 29 CFR part 37, which implement the nondiscrimination provisions of WIA section 188, apply to recipients of financial assistance under WIA section 167.

# Subpart B—The Service Delivery System for the National Farmworker Jobs Program
§ 669.200
Who is eligible to receive a NFJP grant?
(a) To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity must have:
(1) An understanding of the problems of eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers and their dependents;
(2) A familiarity with the agricultural industry and the labor market needs of the geographic area to be served;
(3) The capacity to effectively administer a diversified program of workforce investment activities and related assistance for eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers (including farmworker youth) as described in paragraph (b) of this section;
(4) The capacity to work effectively as a One-Stop partner.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, an entity's “capacity to effectively administer” a program may be demonstrated by:
(1) Organizational experience; or
(2) Significant experience of its key staff in administering similar programs.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a)(4) of this section, an applicant may demonstrate its capacity to work effectively as a One-Stop partner through its existing relationships with Local Workforce Investment Boards and other One-Stop partners, as evidenced through One-Stop system participation and successful MOU negotiations.
(d) As part of the evaluation of the applicant's capacity to work effectively as a One-Stop partner under paragraph (a)(4) of this section:
(1) The Grant Officer must determine whether the policies or actions of any Local Board established under the authorty of the alternative entity provision of WIA section 117(i) and 20 CFR 661.330:
(i) Preclude One-Stop system participation by the applicant or existing NFJP grantee; or
(ii) For the prior program year, contributed to a failure to reach agreement on the terms of the MOU required under § 669.220; and
(2) If the Grant Officer's determinations under paragraph (d)(1) of this section are affirmative, then the Grant Officer may consider this fact when weighing the capacity of the competitors.
§ 669.210
How does an eligible entity become an NFJP grantee?
To become an NFJP grantee and receive a grant under this subpart, an applicant must respond to a Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA). The SGA may contain additional requirements for the grant application or the grantee's two-year plan. Under the SGA, grantees will be selected using standard Federal Government competitive procedures. The entity's proposal must describe a two-year strategy for meeting the needs of eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers in the geographic area the entity seeks to serve.
§ 669.220
What is the role of the NFJP grantee in the One-Stop delivery system?
(a) In those local workforce investment areas where the grantee operates its NFJP, the grantee is a required partner of the local One-Stop delivery system and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in 20 CFR part 662. Consistent with those provisions, the grantee and the Local Board must negotiate an MOU which meets the requirements of 20 CFR 662.300 and sets forth their respective responsibilities for making the full range of services available through the One-Stop system available to farmworkers. Where the Local Board is an alternative entity under 20 CFR 661.330, the NFJP grantee must negotiate with the Board on the terms of its MOU and the scope of its on-going role in the local workforce investment system, as specified in 20 CFR 661.310(b)(2). In local areas where the grantee does not operate its NFJP and there is a large concentration of MSFW's, the grantee may consider the availability of electronic connections and other means to participate in the One-stop system in that area, in order to serve those individuals.
(b) The MOU must provide for appropriate and equitable services to MSFW's, and may include costs of services to MSFW's incurred by the One-Stop that extend beyond Wagner-Peyser funded services and activities.
§ 669.230
Can an NFJP grantee's designation be terminated?
Yes, a grantee's designation may be terminated for cause:
(a) By the Secretary, in emergency circumstances when such action is necessary to protect the integrity of Federal funds or ensure the proper operation of the program. Any grantee so terminated will be provided with written notice and an opportunity for a hearing within 30 days after the termination (WIA sec. 184(e)); or
(b) By the Grant Officer, if there is a substantial or persistent violation of the requirements in the Act or the WIA regulations. In such a case, the Grant Officer must provide the grantee with 60 days prior written notice, stating the reasons why termination is proposed, and the applicable appeal procedures.
§ 669.240
How do we use funds appropriated under WIA section 167 for the NFJP?
(a) At least 94 percent of the funds appropriated each year for WIA section 167 activities must be allocated to State service areas, based on the distribution of the eligible MSFW population determined under a formula which has been published in the
Federal Register.
Grants are awarded under a competitive process for the provision of services to eligible farmworkers within each service area.
(b) The balance, up to 6 percent of the appropriated funds, will be used for discretionary purposes, for such activities as grantee technical assistance and support of farmworker housing activities.

# Subpart C—The National Farmworker Jobs Program Customers and Available Program Services
§ 669.300
What are the general responsibilities of the NFJP grantees?
Each grantee is responsible for providing needed services in accordance with a service delivery strategy described in its approved grant plan. These services must reflect the needs of the MSFW population in the service area and include the services and training activities that are necessary to achieve each participant's employment goals.
§ 669.310
What are the basic components of an NFJP service delivery strategy?
The NFJP service delivery strategy must include:
(a) A customer-centered case management approach;
(b) The provision of workforce investment activities, which include core services, intensive services, and training services, as described in WIA section 134, as appropriate;
(c) The arrangements under the MOU's with the applicable Local Workforce Investment Boards for the delivery of the services available through the One-Stop system to MSFW's; and
(d) Related assistance services.
§ 669.320
Who is eligible to receive services under the NFJP?
Disadvantaged migrant and seasonal farmworkers, as defined in § 669.110, and their dependents are eligible for services funded by the NFJP.
§ 669.330
How are services delivered to the customer?
To ensure that all services are focused on the customer's needs, services are provided through a case-management approach and may include: Core, intensive and training services; and related assistance, which includes emergency assistance and supportive services. The basic services and delivery of case-management activities are further described at §§ 669.340 through 669.410. Consistent with 20 CFR part 663, before receiving intensive services, a participant must receive at least one core service, and, prior to receiving training services, a participant must receive at least one intensive service.
§ 669.340
What core services are available to eligible MSFW's?
The core services identified in WIA section 134(d)(2) are available to eligible MSFW's.
§ 669.350
How are core services delivered to MSFW's?
(a) The full range of core services are available to MSFW's, as well as other individuals, at One-Stop Centers, as described in 20 CFR part 662.
(b) Core services must be made available through the One-Stop delivery system. The delivery of core services to MSFW's, by the NFJP grantee and through the One-Stop system, must be discussed in the required MOU between the Local Board and the NFJP grantee.
§ 669.360
May grantees provide emergency assistance to MSFW's?
(a) Yes, Emergency Assistance (as defined in § 669.110) is a form of the related assistance that is authorized under WIA section 167(d) and may be provided by a grantee as described in the grant plan.
(b) In providing emergency assistance, the NFJP grantee may use an abbreviated eligibility determination process that accepts the applicant's self-attestation as final evidence of eligibility, except that self-attestation may not be used to establish the requirements of legal working status in the United States, and Selective Service registration, where applicable.
§ 669.370
What intensive services may be provided to eligible MSFW's?
(a) Intensive services available to farmworkers include those described in WIA section 134(d)(3)(C).
(b) Intensive services may also include:
(1) Dropout prevention activities;
(2) Allowance payments;
(3) Work experience, which:
(i) Is designed to promote the development of good work habits and basic work skills at the work-site (work experience may be conducted with the public and private non-profit sectors and with the private for-profit sector when the design for this service is described in the approved grant plan); and which:
(ii)(A) May be paid. Paid work experience must compensate participants at no less than the higher of the applicable State or Federal minimum wage; or
(B) May be unpaid. Unpaid work experience must provide tangible benefits, in lieu of wages, to those who participate in unpaid work experience and the strategy for ensuring that tangible benefits are received must be described in the approved grant plan. The benefits to the participant must be commensurate with the participant's contribution to the hosting organization;
(4) Literacy and English-as-a-Second language; and
(5) Other services identified in the approved grant plan.
§ 669.380
What is the objective assessment that is authorized as an intensive service?
(a) An objective assessment is a procedure designed to comprehensively assess the skills, abilities, and interests of each employment and training participant through the use of diagnostic testing and other assessment tools. The methods used by the grantee in conducting the objective assessment may include:
(1) Structured in-depth interviews;
(2) Skills and aptitude assessments;
(3) Performance assessments (for example, skills or work samples, including those that measure interest and capability to train in nontraditional employment);
(4) Interest or attitude inventories;
(5) Career guidance instruments;
(6) Aptitude tests; and
(7) Basic skills tests.
(b) The objective assessment is an ongoing process that requires the grantee staff to remain in close consultation with each participant to continuously obtain current information about the participant's progress that may be relevant to his/her Individual Employment Plan (IEP).
§ 669.400
What are the elements of the Individual Employment Plan that is authorized as an intensive service?
The elements of the Individual Employment Plan (IEP) are:
(a)
Joint development:
The grantee develops the IEP in partnership with the participant;
(b)
Customer focus:
The combination of services chosen with the participant must be consistent with the results of any objective assessment, responsive to the expressed goals of the participant, and must include periodic evaluation of planned goals and a record of accomplishments in consultation with the participant;
(c)
Length/type of service:
The type and duration of intensive or training services must be based upon:
(1) The employment/career goal;
(2) Referrals to other programs for specified activities; and
(3) The delivery agents and schedules for intensive services, training and training-related supportive services; and
(d)
Privacy:
As a customer-centered case management tool, an IEP is a personal record and must receive confidential treatment.
§ 669.410
What training services may be provided to eligible MSFW's?
(a) Training services include those described in WIA sections 134(d)(4)(D) and 167(d), and may be described in the IEP and may include:
(1) On-the-job training activities under a contract between the participating employer and the grantee;
(2) Training-related supportive services; and
(b) Other training activities identified in the approved grant plan such as training in self-employment skills and micro-enterprise development.
§ 669.420
What must be included in an on-the-job training contract?
At a minimum, an on-the-job training contract must comply with the requirements of WIA sections 195(4) and 101(31) and must include:
(a) The occupation(s) for which training is to be provided;
(b) The duration of training;
(c) The wage rate to be paid to the trainee;
(d) The rate of reimbursement;
(e) The maximum amount of reimbursement;
(f) A training outline that reflects the work skills required for the position;
(g) An outline of any other separate classroom training that may be provided by the employer; and
(h) The employer's agreement to maintain and make available time and attendance, payroll and other records to support amounts claimed by the employer for reimbursement under the OJT contract.
§ 669.430
What Related Assistance services may be provided to eligible farmworkers?
Related Assistance may include such services and activities as:
(a) Emergency Assistance;
(b) Workplace safety and farmworker pesticide safety instruction;
(c) Housing development assistance;
(d) Other supportive services described in the grant plan; and
(e) English language classes and basic education classes for participants not enrolled in intensive or training services.
§ 669.440
When may farmworkers receive related assistance?
Farmworkers may receive related assistance services when the need for the related assistance is documented for any eligible farmworker or dependent
in a determination made by the grantee or in a statement by the farmworker.

# Subpart D—Performance Accountability, Planning and Waiver Provision
§ 669.500
What performance measures and standards apply to the NFJP?
(a) The NFJP will use the core indicators of performance common to the adult and youth programs, described in 20 CFR part 666. The levels of performance for the farmworker indicators will be established in a negotiation between the Department and the grantee. The levels must take into account the characteristics of the population to be served and the economic conditions in the service area. Proposed levels of performance must be included in the grantee plan submission, and the agreed-upon levels must be included in the approved plan.
(b) We may develop additional performance indicators with appropriate levels of performance for evaluating programs that serve farmworkers and which reflect the State service area economy and local demographics of eligible MSFW's. The levels of performance for these additional indicators must be negotiated with the grantee and included in the approved plan.
§ 669.510
What planning documents must an NFJP grantee submit?
Each grantee receiving WIA section 167 program funds must submit to DSFP a comprehensive service delivery plan and a projection of participant services and expenditures covering the two-year designation cycle.
§ 669.520
What information is required in the NFJP grant plans?
An NFJP grantee's biennial plan must describe:
(a) The employment and education needs of the farmworker population to be served;
(b) The manner in which proposed services to farmworkers and their families will strengthen their ability to obtain or retain employment or stabilize their agricultural employment;
(c) The related assistance and supportive services to be provided and the manner in which such assistance and services are to be coordinated with other available services;
(d) The performance indicators and proposed levels of performance used to assess the performance of such entity, including the specific goals of the grantee's program for the two Program Years involved;
(e) The method the grantee will use to target its services on specific segments of the eligible population, as appropriate;
(f) The array of services which the grantee intends to make available, with costs specified on forms we prescribe. These forms will indicate how many participants the grantee expects to serve, by activity, the results expected under the grantee's plan, and the anticipated expenditures by cost category; and
(g) Its response to any other requirements set forth in the SGA issued under § 669.210.
§ 669.530
What are the submission dates for these plans?
We will announce plan submission dates in the SGA issued under § 669.220.
§ 669.540
Under what circumstances are the terms of the grantee's plan modified by the grantee or the Department?
(a) Plans must be modified to reflect the funding level for the second year of the designation cycle. We will provide instructions for when to submit modifications for second year funding, which will generally be no later than June 1 prior to the beginning of the second year of the designation cycle.
(b) We may unilaterally modify the grantee's plan to add funds or, if the total amount of funds available for allotment is reduced by Congress, to reduce each grantee's grant amount.
(c) The grantee may modify its plan to add, delete, expand, or reduce any part of the program plan or allowable activities. Such modifications may be made by the grantee without our approval except where the modification reduces the total number of participants to be served annually under intensive and/or training services by 15 percent or more, in which case the plan
may only be modified with Grant Officer approval.
(d) If the grantee is approved for a regulatory waiver under §§ 669.560 and 669.570, the grantee must submit a modification of its service delivery plan to reflect the effect of the waiver.
§ 669.550
How are costs classified under the NFJP?
(a) Costs are classified as follows:
(1) Administrative costs, as defined in 20 CFR 667.220; and
(2) Program costs, which are all other costs not defined as administrative.
(b) Program costs must be classified and reported in the following categories:
(1) Related assistance, including emergency assistance and supportive services, including allocated staff costs; and
(2) All other program services, including allocated staff costs.
§ 669.555
Do the WIA administrative cost limits for States and local areas apply to NFJP grants?
No, under 20 CFR 667.210(b), limits on administrative costs for NFJP grants will be negotiated with the grantee and identified in the grant award document.
§ 669.560
Are there regulatory and/or statutory waiver provisions that apply to WIA section 167?
(a) The statutory waiver provision at WIA section 189(i) does not apply to WIA section 167.
(b) NFJP grantees may request waiver of any regulatory provisions only when such regulatory provisions are:
(1) Not required by WIA;
(2) Not related to wage and labor standards, nondisplacement protection, worker rights, participation and protection of workers and participants, and eligibility of participants, grievance procedures, judicial review, nondiscrimination, allocation of funds, procedures for review and approval of plans; and
(3) Not related to the key reform principles embodied in WIA, described in 20 CFR 661.400.
§ 669.570
What information is required to document a requested waiver?
To request a waiver, a grantee must submit a waiver plan that:
(a) Describes the goals of the waiver, the expected programmatic outcomes, and how the waiver will improve the provision of WIA activities;
(b) Is consistent with guidelines we establish and the waiver provisions at 20 CFR 661.400 through 661.420; and
(c) Includes a modified service delivery plan reflecting the effect of requested waiver.

# Subpart E—The MSFW Youth Program
§ 669.600
What is the purpose of the WIA section 167 MSFW Youth Program?
The purpose of the MSFW youth program is to provide an effective and comprehensive array of educational opportunities, employment skills, and life enhancement activities to at-risk and out-of-school MSFW youth that lead to success in school, economic stability and development into productive members of society.
§ 669.610
What is the relationship between the MSFW youth program and the NFJP authorized at WIA section 167?
The MSFW youth program is funded under WIA section 127(b)(1)(A)(iii) to provide farmworker youth activities under the auspices of WIA section 167. These funds are specifically earmarked for MSFW youth. Funds provided for the section 167 program may also be used for youth, but are not limited to this age group.
§ 669.620
How do the MSFW youth program regulations apply to the NFJP program authorized under WIA section 167?
(a) This subpart applies only to the administration of grants for MSFW youth programs funded under WIA section 127(b)(1)(A)(iii).
(b) The regulations for the NFJP in this part apply to the administration of the MSFW youth program, except as modified in this subpart.
§ 669.630
What are the requirements for designation as an “MSFW youth program grantee”?
Any entity that meets the requirements described in the SGA may apply for designation as an “MSFW youth program grantee” consistent with requirements described in the SGA. The Department gives special consideration to an entity in any service area for which the entity has been designated as a WIA section 167 NFJP program grantee.
§ 669.640
What is the process for applying for designation as an MSFW youth program grantee?
(a) To apply for designation as an MSFW youth program grantee, entities must respond to an SGA by submitting a plan that meets the requirements of WIA section 167(c)(2) and describes a two-year strategy for meeting the needs of eligible MSFW youth in the service area the entity seeks to serve.
(b) The designation process is conducted competitively (subject to § 669.210) through a selection process distinct from the one used to select WIA section 167 NFJP grantees.
§ 669.650
How are MSFW youth funds allocated to section 167 youth grantees?
The allocation of funds among entities designated as WIA section 167 MSFW Youth Program grantees is based on the comparative merits of the applications, in accordance with criteria set forth in the SGA. However, we may include criteria in the SGA that promote a geographical distribution of funds and that encourages both large- and small-scale programs.
§ 669.660
What planning documents and information are required in the application for MSFW youth grants and when must they be filed?
The required planning documents and other required information and the submission dates for filing are described in the SGA.
§ 669.670
Who is eligible to receive services under the section 167 MSFW youth program?
Disadvantaged youth, ages 14 through 21, who are individually eligible or are members of eligible families under the WIA section 167 NFJP may receive these services.
§ 669.680
What activities and services may be provided under the MSFW youth program?
(a) Based on an evaluation and assessment of the needs of MSFW youth participants, grantees may provide activities and services to MSFW youth that include:
(1) Intensive services and training services, as described in §§ 669.400 and 669.410;
(2) Life skills activities which may include self and interpersonal skills development;
(3) Community service projects;
(4) Small business development technical assistance and training in conjunction with entrepreneurial training;
(5) Supportive services including the related assistance services, described in § 669.430; and
(b) Other activities and services that conform to the use of funds for youth activities described in 20 CFR part 664.
Pt. 670

# PART 670—THE JOB CORPS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT

# Subpart A—Scope and Purpose
Sec.
670.100
What is the scope of this part?
670.110
What is the Job Corps program?
670.120
What definitions apply to this part?
670.130
What is the role of the Job Corps Director?

# Subpart B—Site Selection and Protection and Maintenance of Facilities
670.200
Who decides where Job Corps centers will be located?
670.210
How are center facility improvements and new construction handled?
670.220
Are we responsible for the protection and maintenance of center facilities?

# Subpart C—Funding and Selection of Service Providers
670.300
What entities are eligible to receive funds to operate centers and provide training and operational support services?
670.310
How are entities selected to receive funding?
670.320
What are the requirements for award of contracts and payments to Federal agencies?

# Subpart D—Recruitment, Eligibility, Screening, Selection and Assignment, and Enrollment
670.400
Who is eligible to participate in the Job Corps program?
670.410
Are there additional factors which are considered in selecting an eligible applicant for enrollment?
670.420
Are there any special requirements for enrollment related to the Military Selective Service Act?
670.430
What entities conduct outreach and admissions activities for the Job Corps program?
670.440
What are the responsibilities of outreach and admissions agencies?
670.450
How are applicants who meet eligibility and selection criteria assigned to centers?
670.460
What restrictions are there on the assignment of eligible applicants for nonresidential enrollment in Job Corps?
670.470
May a person who is determined to be ineligible or an individual who is denied enrollment appeal that decision?
670.480
At what point is an applicant considered to be enrolled in Job Corps?
670.490
How long may a student be enrolled in Job Corps?

# Subpart E—Program Activities and Center Operations
670.500
What services must Job Corps centers provide?
670.505
What types of training must Job Corps centers provide?
670.510
Are Job Corps center operators responsible for providing all vocational training?
670.515
What responsibilities do the center operators have in managing work-based learning?
670.520
Are students permitted to hold jobs other than work-based learning opportunities?
670.525
What residential support services must Job Corps center operators provide?
670.530
Are Job Corps centers required to maintain a student accountability system?
670.535
Are Job Corps centers required to establish behavior management systems?
670.540
What is Job Corps' zero tolerance policy?
670.545
How does Job Corps ensure that students receive due process in disciplinary actions?
670.550
What responsibilities do Job Corps centers have in assisting students with child care needs?
670.555
What are the center's responsibilities in ensuring that students' religious rights are respected?
670.560
Is Job Corps authorized to conduct pilot and demonstration projects?

# Subpart F—Student Support
670.600
Is government-paid transportation provided to Job Corps students?
670.610
When are students authorized to take leaves of absence from their Job Corps centers?
670.620
Are Job Corps students eligible to receive cash allowances and performance bonuses?
670.630
Are student allowances subject to Federal Payroll Taxes?
670.640
Are students provided with clothing?

# Subpart G—Placement and Continued Services
670.700
What are Job Corps centers' responsibilities in preparing students for placement services?
670.710
What placement services are provided for Job Corps students?
670.720
Who provides placement services?
670.730
What are the responsibilities of placement agencies?
670.740
Must continued services be provided for graduates?
670.750
Who may provide continued services for graduates?
670.760
How will Job Corps coordinate with other agencies?

# Subpart H—Community Connections
670.800
How do Job Corps centers and service providers become involved in their local communities?

# Subpart I—Administrative and Management Provisions
670.900
Are damages caused by the acts or omissions of students eligible for payment under the Federal Tort Claims Act?
670.905
Are loss and damages that occur to persons or personal property of students at Job Corps centers eligible for reimbursement?
670.910
If a student is injured in the performance of duty as a Job Corps Student, what benefits may they receive?
670.915
When is a Job Corps student considered to be in the performance of duty?
670.935
How are students protected from unsafe or unhealthy situations?
670.940
What are the requirements for criminal law enforcement jurisdiction on center property?
670.945
Are Job Corps operators and service providers authorized to pay State or local taxes on gross receipts?
670.950
What are the financial management responsibilities of Job Corps center operators and other service providers?
670.955
Are center operators and service providers subject to Federal audits?
670.960
What are the procedures for management of student records?
670.965
What procedures apply to disclosure of information about Job Corps students and program activities?
670.970
What are the reporting requirements for center operators and operational support service providers?
670.975
How is the performance of the Job Corps program assessed?
670.980
What are the indicators of performance for Job Corps?
670.985
What happens if a center operator, screening and admissions contractor or other service provider fails to meet the expected levels of performance?
670.990
What procedures are available to resolve complaints and disputes?
670.991
How does Job Corps ensure that complaints or disputes are resolved in a timely fashion?
670.992
How does Job Corps ensure that centers or other service providers comply with the Act and the WIA regulations?
670.993
How does Job Corps ensure that contract disputes will be resolved?
670.994
How does Job Corps resolve disputes between DOL and other Federal Agencies?
670.995
What DOL equal opportunity and nondiscrimination regulations apply to Job Corps?

# Authority:
Subtitle C of title I, sec. 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220, 112 Stat. 936 (20 U.S.C. 2881
et seq.
and 9276(c)); 5 U.S.C. 301; Executive Order 13198, 66 FR 8497, 3 CFR 2001 Comp., p. 750; Executive Order 13279, 67 FR 77141, 3 CFR 2002 Comp., p. 258.

# Source:
65 FR 49450, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Scope and Purpose
§ 670.100
What is the scope of this part?
The regulations in this part are an outline of the requirements that apply to the Job Corps program. More detailed policies and procedures are contained in a Policy and Requirements Handbook issued by the Secretary. Throughout this part, phrases like “according to instructions (procedures) issued by the Secretary” refer to the Policy and Requirements Handbook and other Job Corps directives.
§ 670.110
What is the Job Corps program?
Job Corps is a national program that operates in partnership with States and communities, local Workforce Investment Boards, youth councils, One-Stop Centers and partners, and other youth programs to provide education and training, primarily in a residential setting, for low income young people. The objective of Job Corps is to provide young people with the skills they need to obtain and hold a job, enter the Armed Forces, or enroll in advanced training or further education.
§ 670.120
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part:
Absent Without Official Leave (AWOL)
means an adverse enrollment status to which a student is assigned based on extended, unapproved absence from his/her assigned center or off-center place of duty. Students do not earn Job Corps allowances while in AWOL status.
Applicable local board
means a local Workforce Investment Board that:
(1) Works with a Job Corps center and provides information on local demand occupations, employment opportunities, and the job skills needed to obtain the opportunities, and
(2) Serves communities in which the graduates of the Job Corps seek employment when they leave the program.
Capital improvement
means any modification, addition, restoration or other improvement:
(1) Which increases the usefulness, productivity, or serviceable life of an existing site, facility, building, structure, or major item of equipment;
(2) Which is classified for accounting purposes as a “fixed asset;” and
(3) The cost of which increases the recorded value of the existing building, site, facility, structure, or major item of equipment and is subject to depreciation.
Center
means a facility and an organizational entity, including all of its parts, providing Job Corps training and designated as a Job Corps center.
Center operator
means a Federal, State or local agency, or a contractor that runs a center under an agreement or contract with DOL.
Civilian conservation center (CCC)
means a center operated on public land under an agreement between DOL and another Federal agency, which provides, in addition to other training and
assistance, programs of work-based learning to conserve, develop, or manage public natural resources or public recreational areas or to develop community projects in the public interest.
Contract center
means a Job Corps center operated under a contract with DOL.
Contracting officer
means the Regional Director or other official authorized to enter into contracts or agreements on behalf of DOL.
Enrollee
means an individual who has voluntarily applied for, been selected for, and enrolled in the Job Corps program, and remains with the program, but has not yet become a graduate. Enrollees are also referred to as “students” in this part.
Enrollment
means the process by which individual formally becomes a student in the Job Corps program.
Graduate
means an enrollee who has:
(1) Completed the requirements of a vocational training program, or received a secondary school diploma or its equivalent as a result of participating in the Job Corps program; and
(2) Achieved job readiness and employment skills as a result of participating in the Job Corps program.
Individual with a disability
means an individual with a disability as defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).
Interagency agreement
means a formal agreement between DOL and another Federal agency administering and operating centers. The agreement establishes procedures for the funding, administration, operation, and review of those centers as well as the resolution of any disputes.
Job Corps
means the agency of the Department established by section 143 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (WIA) (20 U.S.C. 9201
et seq.
) to perform those functions of the Secretary of Labor set forth in subtitle C of WIA Title I.
Job Corps Director
means the chief official of the Job Corps or a person authorized to act for the Job Corps Director.
Low income individual
means an individual who meets the definition in WIA section 101(25).
National Office
means the national office of Job Corps.
National training contractor
means a labor union, union-affiliated organization, business organization, association or a combination of such organizations, which has a contract with the national office to provide vocational training, placement, or other services.
Operational support services
means activities or services required to support the operation of Job Corps, including:
(1) Outreach and admissions services;
(2) Contracted vocational training and off-center training;
(3) Placement services;
(4) Continued services for graduates;
(5) Certain health services; and
(6) Miscellaneous logistical and technical support.
Outreach and admissions agency
means an organization that performs outreach, and screens and enrolls youth under a contract or other agreement with Job Corps.
Placement
means student employment, entry into the Armed Forces, or enrollment in other training or education programs following separation from Job Corps.
Placement agency
means an organization acting under a contract or other agreement with Job Corps to provide placement services for graduates and, to the extent possible, for former students.
Regional appeal board
means the board designated by the Regional Director to consider student appeals of disciplinary discharges.
Regional Director
means the chief Job Corps official of a regional office or a person authorized to act for the Regional Director.
Regional Office
means a regional office of Job Corps.
Regional Solicitor
means the chief official of a regional office of the DOL Office of the Solicitor, or a person authorized to act for the Regional Solicitor.
Separation
means the action by which an individual ceases to be a student in the Job Corps program, either voluntarily or involuntarily.
Student
means an individual enrolled in the Job Corps.
Unauthorized goods
means:
(1) Firearms and ammunition;
(2) Explosives and incendiaries;
(3) Knives with blades longer than 2 inches;
(4) Homemade weapons;
(5) All other weapons and instruments used primarily to inflict personal injury;
(6) Stolen property;
(7) Drugs, including alcohol, marijuana, depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens, tranquilizers, and drug paraphernalia except for drugs and/or paraphernalia that are prescribed for medical reasons; and
(8) Any other goods prohibited by the center operator in a student handbook.
§ 670.130
What is the role of the Job Corps Director?
The Job Corps Director has been delegated the authority to carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary under Subtitle I-C of the Act. Where the term “Secretary” is used in this part 670 to refer to establishment or issuance of guidelines and standards directly relating to the operation of the Job Corps program, the Job Corps Director has that responsibility.

# Subpart B—Site Selection and Protection and Maintenance of Facilities
§ 670.200
Who decides where Job Corps centers will be located?
(a) The Secretary must approve the location and size of all Job Corps centers.
(b) The Secretary establishes procedures for making decisions concerning the establishment, relocation, expansion, or closing of contract centers.
§ 670.210
How are center facility improvements and new construction handled?
The Secretary issues procedures for requesting, approving, and initiating capital improvements and new construction on Job Corps centers.
§ 670.220
Are we responsible for the protection and maintenance of center facilities?
(a) Yes, the Secretary establishes procedures for the protection and maintenance of contract center facilities owned or leased by the Department of Labor, that are consistent with Federal Property Management Regulations at 41 CFR Chapter 101.
(b) Federal agencies operating civilian conservation centers (CCC's) on public land are responsible for protection and maintenance of CCC facilities.
(c) The Secretary issues procedures for conducting periodic facility surveys of centers to determine their condition and to identify needs such as correction of safety and health deficiencies, rehabilitation, and/or new construction.

# Subpart C—Funding and Selection of Service Providers
§ 670.300
What entities are eligible to receive funds to operate centers and provide training and operational support services?
(a) Entities eligible to receive funds under this subpart to operate centers include:
(1) Federal, State, and local agencies;
(2) Private for-profit and non-profit corporations;
(3) Indian tribes and organizations; and
(4) Area vocational education or residential vocational schools. (WIA sec. 147(a)(1)(A) and (d)).
(b) Entities eligible to receive funds to provide outreach and admissions, placement and other operational support services include:
(1) One-Stop Centers and partners;
(2) Community action agencies;
(3) Business organizations;
(4) Labor organizations;
(5) Private for-profit and non-profit corporations; and
(6) Other agencies, and individuals that have experience and contact with youth. (WIA sec. 145(a)(3)).
§ 670.310
How are entities selected to receive funding?
(a) The Secretary selects eligible entities to operate contract centers and operational support service providers on a competitive basis in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 unless section 303 (c) and (d) of that Act apply. In selecting an entity, Job Corps issues requests for proposals (RFP) for the operation of all contract centers
and for provision of operational support services according to Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) and DOL Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 29). Job Corps develops RFP's for center operators in consultation with the Governor, the center industry council (if established), and the Local Board for the workforce investment area in which the center is located.
(b) The RFP for each contract center and each operational support service contract describes uniform specifications and standards, as well as specifications and requirements that are unique to the operation of the specific center or to the specific required operational support services.
(c) The Contracting Officer selects and funds Job Corps contract center operators on the basis of an evaluation of the proposals received using criteria established by the Secretary, and set forth in the RFP. The criteria include the following:
(1) The offeror's ability to coordinate the activities carried out through the Job Corps center with activities carried out under the appropriate State and local workforce investment plans;
(2) The degree to which the offeror proposes vocational training that reflects employment opportunities in the local areas in which most of the students intend to seek employment;
(3) The degree to which the offeror is familiar with the surrounding community, including the applicable One-Stop Centers, and the State and region in which the center is located; and
(4) The offeror's past performance.
(d) The Contracting Officer selects and funds operational support service contractors on the basis of an evaluation of the proposals received using criteria established by the Secretary and set forth in the RFP.
(e) The Secretary enters into interagency agreements with Federal agencies for the funding, establishment, and operation of CCC's which include provisions to ensure that the Federal agencies comply with the regulations under this part.
§ 670.320
What are the requirements for award of contracts and payments to Federal agencies?
(a) The requirements of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended; the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977; the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1); and the DOL Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 29) apply to the award of contracts and to payments to Federal agencies.
(b) Job Corps funding of Federal agencies that operate CCC's are made by a transfer of obligational authority from DOL to the respective operating agency.

# Subpart D—Recruitment, Eligibility, Screening, Selection and Assignment, and Enrollment
§ 670.400
Who is eligible to participate in the Job Corps program?
To be eligible to participate in the Job Corps, an individual must be:
(a) At least 16 and not more than 24 years of age at the time of enrollment, except
(1) There is no upper age limit for an otherwise eligible individual with a disability; and
(2) Not more than 20% of individuals enrolled nationwide may be individuals who are aged 22 to 24 years old;
(b) A low-income individual;
(c) An individual who is facing one or more of the following barriers to education and employment:
(1) Is basic skills deficient, as defined in WIA sec. 101(4); or
(2) Is a school dropout; or
(3) Is homeless, or a runaway, or a foster child; or
(4) Is a parent; or
(5) Requires additional education, vocational training, or intensive counseling and related assistance in order to participate successfully in regular schoolwork or to secure and hold meaningful employment; and
(d) Meets the requirements of § 670.420, if applicable.
§ 670.410
Are there additional factors which are considered in selecting an eligible applicant for enrollment?
Yes, in accordance with procedures issued by the Secretary, an eligible applicant may be selected for enrollment, only if:
(a) A determination is made, based on information relating to the background, needs and interests of the applicant, that the applicant's educational and vocational needs can best be met through the Job Corps program;
(b) A determination is made that there is a reasonable expectation the applicant can participate successfully in group situations and activities, and is not likely to engage in actions that would potentially:
(1) Prevent other students from receiving the benefit of the program;
(2) Be incompatible with the maintenance of sound discipline; or
(3) Impede satisfactory relationships between the center to which the student is assigned and surrounding local communities;
(c) The applicant is made aware of the center's rules and what the consequences are for failure to observe the rules, as described in procedures issued by the Secretary;
(d) The applicant passes a background check conducted according to procedures established by the Secretary. The background check must find that the applicant is not on probation, parole, under a suspended sentence or under the supervision of any agency as a result of court action or institutionalization, unless the court or appropriate agency certifies in writing that it will approve of the applicant's release from its supervision and that the applicant's release does not violate applicable laws and regulations. No one will be denied enrollment in Job Corps solely on the basis of contact with the criminal justice system. (WIA secs. 145(b)(1)(C) and 145(b)(2));
(e) Suitable arrangements are made for the care of any dependent children for the proposed period of enrollment.
§ 670.420
Are there any special requirements for enrollment related to the Military Selective Service Act?
(a) Yes, each male applicant 18 years of age or older must present evidence that he has complied with section 3 of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 451
et seq.
) if required; and
(b) When a male student turns 18 years of age, he must submit evidence to the center that he has complied with the requirements of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 451
et seq
).
§ 670.430
What entities conduct outreach and admissions activities for the Job Corps program?
The Regional Director makes arrangements with outreach and admissions agencies to perform Job Corps recruitment, screening and admissions functions according to standards and procedures issued by the Secretary. One-Stop Centers or partners, community action organizations, private for-profit and non-profit businesses, labor organizations, or other entities that have contact with youth over substantial periods of time and are able to offer reliable information about the needs of youth, conduct outreach and admissions activities. The Regional Director awards contracts for provision of outreach and screening services on a competitive basis in accordance with the requirements in § 670.310.
§ 670.440
What are the responsibilities of outreach and admissions agencies?
(a) Outreach and admissions agencies are responsible for:
(1) Developing outreach and referral sources;
(2) Actively seeking out potential applicants;
(3) Conducting personal interviews with all applicants to identify their needs and eligibility status; and
(4) Identifying youth who are interested and likely Job Corps participants.
(b) Outreach and admissions agencies are responsible for completing all Job Corps application forms and determining whether applicants meet the eligibility and selection criteria for
participation in Job Corps as provided in §§ 670.400 and 670.410.
(c) The Secretary may decide that determinations with regard to one or more of the eligibility criteria will be made by the Regional Director.
§ 670.450
How are applicants who meet eligibility and selection criteria assigned to centers?
(a) Each applicant who meets the application and selection requirements of §§ 670.400 and 670.410 is assigned to a center based on an assignment plan developed by the Secretary. The assignment plan identifies a target for the maximum percentage of students at each center who come from the State or region nearest the center, and the regions surrounding the center. The assignment plan is based on an analysis of:
(1) The number of eligible individuals in the State and region where the center is located and the regions surrounding where the center is located;
(2) The demand for enrollment in Job Corps in the State and region where the center is located and in surrounding regions; and
(3) The size and enrollment level of the center.
(b) Eligible applicants are assigned to centers closest to their homes, unless it is determined, based on the special needs of applicants, including vocational interests and English literacy needs, the unavailability of openings in the closest center, or parent or guardian concerns, that another center is more appropriate.
(c) A student who is under the age of 18 must not be assigned to a center other than the center closest to home if a parent or guardian objects to the assignment.
§ 670.460
What restrictions are there on the assignment of eligible applicants for nonresidential enrollment in Job Corps?
(a) No more than 20 percent of students enrolled in Job Corps nationwide may be nonresidential students.
(b) In enrolling individuals who are to be nonresidential students, priority is given to those eligible individuals who are single parents with dependent children. (WIA sec 147(b).)
§ 670.470
May a person who is determined to be ineligible or an individual who is denied enrollment appeal that decision?
(a) A person who is determined to be ineligible to participate in Job Corps under § 670.400 or a person who is not selected for enrollment under § 670.410 may appeal the determination to the outreach and admissions agency or to the center within 60 days of the determination. The appeal will be resolved according to the procedures in §§ 670.990 and 670.991. If the appeal is denied by the outreach/admissions contractor or the center, the person may appeal the decision in writing to the Regional Director within 60 days the date of the denial. The Regional Director will decide within 60 days whether to reverse or approve the appealed decision. The decision by the Regional Director is the Department's final decision.
(b) If an applicant believes that he or she has been determined ineligible or not selected for enrollment based upon a factor prohibited by WIA section 188, the individual may proceed under the applicable DOL nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIA section 188. These regulations may be found at 29 CFR part 37.
(c) An applicant who is determined to be ineligible or a person who is denied enrollment must be referred to the appropriate One-Stop Center or other local service provider.
§ 670.480
At what point is an applicant considered to be enrolled in Job Corps?
(a) To become enrolled as a Job Corps student, an applicant selected for enrollment must physically arrive at the assigned Job Corps center on the appointed date. However, applicants selected for enrollment who arrive at their assigned centers by government furnished transportation are considered to be enrolled on their dates of departure by such transportation.
(b) Center operators must document the enrollment of new students according to procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 670.490
How long may a student be enrolled in Job Corps?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a student may remain enrolled in Job Corps for no more than two years.
(b)(1) An extension of a student's enrollment may be authorized in special cases according to procedures issued by the Secretary; and
(2) A student's enrollment in an advanced career training program may be extended in order to complete the program for a period not to exceed one year.

# Subpart E—Program Activities and Center Operations
§ 670.500
What services must Job Corps centers provide?
(a) Job Corps centers must provide:
(1) Academic, vocational, employability and social skills training;
(2) Work-based learning; and
(3) Recreation, counseling and other residential support services.
(b) In addition, centers must provide students with access to the core services described in WIA section 134(d)(2) and the intensive services described in WIA section 134(d)(3).
§ 670.505
What types of training must Job Corps centers provide?
(a) Job Corps centers must provide basic education, vocational and social skills training. The Secretary provides curriculum standards and guidelines.
(b) Each center must provide students with competency-based or individualized training in an occupational area that will best contribute to the students' opportunities for permanent long-term employment.
(1) Specific vocational training programs offered by individual centers must be approved by the Regional Director according to policies issued by the Secretary.
(2) Center industry councils described in § 670.800 must review appropriate labor market information, identify employment opportunities in local areas where students will look for employment, determine the skills and education necessary for those jobs, and as appropriate, recommend changes in the center's vocational training program to the Secretary.
(c) Each center must implement a system to evaluate and track the progress and achievements of each student at regular intervals.
(d) Each center must develop a training plan that must be available for review and approval by the appropriate Regional Director.
§ 670.510
Are Job Corps center operators responsible for providing all vocational training?
No, in order to facilitate students' entry into the workforce, the Secretary may contract with national business, union, or union-affiliated organizations for vocational training programs at specific centers. Contractors providing such vocational training will be selected in accordance with the requirements of § 670.310.
§ 670.515
What responsibilities do the center operators have in managing work-based learning?
(a) The center operator must emphasize and implement work-based learning programs for students through center program activities, including vocational skills training, and through arrangements with employers. Work-based learning must be under actual working conditions and must be designed to enhance the employability, responsibility, and confidence of the students. Work-based learning usually occurs in tandem with students' vocational training.
(b) The center operator must ensure that students are assigned only to workplaces that meet the safety standards described in § 670.935.
§ 670.520
Are students permitted to hold jobs other than work-based learning opportunities?
Yes, a center operator may authorize a student to participate in gainful leisure time employment, as long as the employment does not interfere with required scheduled activities.
§ 670.525
What residential support services must Job Corps center operators provide?
Job Corps center operators must provide the following services according to procedures issued by the Secretary:
(a) A quality living and learning environment that supports the overall training program and includes a safe, secure, clean and attractive physical and social environment, seven days a week, 24 hours a day;
(b) An ongoing, structured counseling program for students;
(c) Food service, which includes provision of nutritious meals for students;
(d) Medical services, through provision or coordination of a wellness program which includes access to basic medical, dental and mental health services, as described in the Policy and Requirements Handbook, for all students from the date of enrollment until separation from the Job Corps program;
(e) A recreation/avocational program;
(f) A student leadership program and an elected student government; and
(g) A student welfare association for the benefit of all students that is funded by non-appropriated funds which come from sources such as snack bars, vending machines, disciplinary fines, and donations, and is run by an elected student government, with the help of a staff advisor.
§ 670.530
Are Job Corps centers required to maintain a student accountability system?
Yes, each Job Corps center must establish and operate an effective system to account for and document the whereabouts, participation, and status of students during their Job Corps enrollment. The system must enable center staff to detect and respond to instances of unauthorized or unexplained student absence. Each center must operate its student accountability system according to requirements and procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 670.535
Are Job Corps centers required to establish behavior management systems?
(a) Yes, each Job Corps center must establish and maintain its own student incentives system to encourage and reward students' accomplishments.
(b) The Job Corps center must establish and maintain a behavior management system, according to procedures established by the Secretary. The behavior management system must include a zero tolerance policy for violence and drugs policy as described in § 670.540.
§ 670.540
What is Job Corps' zero tolerance policy?
(a) Each Job Corps center must have a zero tolerance policy for:
(1) An act of violence, as defined in procedures issued by the Secretary;
(2) Use, sale, or possession of a controlled substance, as defined at 21 U.S.C. 802;
(3) Abuse of alcohol;
(4) Possession of unauthorized goods; or
(5) Other illegal or disruptive activity.
(b) As part of this policy, all students must be tested for drugs as a condition of enrollment. (WIA sec. 145(a)(1) and 152(b)(2).)
(c) According to procedures issued by the Secretary, the policy must specify the offenses that result in the automatic separation of a student from the Job Corps. The center director is responsible for determining when there is a violation of a specified offense.
§ 670.545
How does Job Corps ensure that students receive due process in disciplinary actions?
The center operator must ensure that all students receive due process in disciplinary proceedings according to procedures developed by the Secretary. These procedures must include, at a minimum, center fact-finding and behavior review boards, a code of sanctions under which the penalty of separation from Job Corps might be imposed, and procedures for students to appeal a center's decision to discharge them involuntarily from Job Corps to a regional appeal board.
§ 670.550
What responsibilities do Job Corps centers have in assisting students with child care needs?
(a) Job Corps centers are responsible for coordinating with outreach and admissions agencies to assist students with making arrangements for child care for their dependent children.
(b) Job Corps centers may operate on center child development programs with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 670.555
What are the center's responsibilities in ensuring that students' religious rights are respected?
(a) Centers must ensure that a student has the right to worship or not worship as he or she chooses.
(b) Students who believe their religious rights have been violated may file complaints under the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 37.
(c) Requirements related to equal treatment of religious organizations in Department of Labor programs, and to protection of religious liberty of Department of Labor social service providers and beneficiaries, are found at subpart D of 29 CFR part 2.
See also
§§ 667.266 and 667.275 of 20 CFR; 29 CFR part 37.
[65 FR 49450, Aug. 11, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 41891, July 12, 2004]
§ 670.560
Is Job Corps authorized to conduct pilot and demonstration projects?
(a) Yes, the Secretary may undertake experimental, research and demonstration projects related to the Job Corps program according to WIA section 156.
(b) The Secretary establishes policies and procedures for conducting such projects.
(c) All studies and evaluations produced or developed with Federal funds become the property of the United States.

# Subpart F—Student Support
§ 670.600
Is government-paid transportation provided to Job Corps students?
Yes, Job Corps provides for the transportation of students between their homes and centers as described in policies and procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 670.610
When are students authorized to take leaves of absence from their Job Corps centers?
Job Corps students are eligible for annual leaves, emergency leaves and other types of leaves of absence from their assigned centers according to criteria and requirements issued by the Secretary. Center operators and other service providers must account for student leave according to procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 670.620
Are Job Corps students eligible to receive cash allowances and performance bonuses?
(a) Yes, according to criteria and rates established by the Secretary, Job Corps students receive cash living allowances, performance bonuses, and allotments for care of dependents, and graduates receive post-separation readjustment allowances and placement bonuses. The Secretary may provide former students with post-separation allowances.
(b) In the event of a student's death, any amount due under this section is paid according to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5582 governing issues such as designation of beneficiary, order of precedence and related matters.
§ 670.630
Are student allowances subject to Federal Payroll Taxes?
Yes, Job Corps student allowances are subject to Federal payroll tax withholding and social security taxes. Job Corps students are considered to be Federal employees for purposes of Federal payroll taxes. (WIA sec. 157(a)(2).)
§ 670.640
Are students provided with clothing?
Yes, Job Corps students are provided cash clothing allowances and/or articles of clothing, including safety clothing, when needed for their participation in Job Corps and their successful entry into the work force. Center operators and other service providers must issue clothing and clothing assistance to students according to rates, criteria, and procedures issued by the Secretary.

# Subpart G—Placement and Continued Services
§ 670.700
What are Job Corps centers' responsibilities in preparing students for placement services?
Job Corps centers must test and counsel students to assess their competencies and capabilities and determine their readiness for placement.
§ 670.710
What placement services are provided for Job Corps students?
(a) Job Corps placement services focus on placing program graduates in:
(1) Full-time jobs that are related to their vocational training and that pay wages that allow for self-sufficiency;
(2) Higher education; or
(3) Advanced training programs, including apprenticeship programs.
(b) Placement service levels for students may vary, depending on whether the student is a graduate or a former student.
(c) Procedures relating to placement service levels are issued by the Secretary.
§ 670.720
Who provides placement services?
The One-Stop system must be used to the fullest extent possible in placing graduates and former students in jobs. Job Corps placement agencies provide placement services under a contract or other agreement with the Department of Labor.
§ 670.730
What are the responsibilities of placement agencies?
(a) Placement agencies are responsible for:
(1) Contacting graduates;
(2) Assisting them in improving skills in resume preparation, interviewing techniques and job search strategies;
(3) Identifying job leads or educational and training opportunities through coordination with local Workforce Investment Boards, One-Stop operators and partners, employers, unions and industry organizations; and
(4) Placing graduates in jobs, apprenticeship, the Armed Forces, or higher education or training, or referring former students for additional services in their local communities as appropriate. Placement services may be provided for former students according to procedures issued by the Secretary.
(b) Placement agencies must record and submit all Job Corps placement information according to procedures established by the Secretary.
§ 670.740
Must continued services be provided for graduates?
Yes, according to procedures issued by the Secretary, continued services, including transition support and workplace counseling, must be provided to program graduates for 12 months after graduation.
§ 670.750
Who may provide continued services for graduates?
Placement agencies, centers or other agencies, including One-Stop partners, may provide post-program services under a contract or other agreement with the Regional Director. In selecting a provider for continued services, priority is given to One-Stop partners. (WIA sec. 148(d)).
§ 670.760
How will Job Corps coordinate with other agencies?
(a) The Secretary issues guidelines for the National Office, Regional Offices, Job Corps centers and operational support providers to use in developing and maintaining cooperative relationships with other agencies and institutions, including law enforcement, educational institutions, communities, and other employment and training programs and agencies.
(b) The Secretary develops polices and requirements to ensure linkages with the One-Stop delivery system to the greatest extent practicable, as well as with other Federal, State, and local programs, and youth programs funded under this title. These linkages enhance services to youth who face multiple barriers to employment and must include, where appropriate:
(1) Referrals of applicants and students;
(2) Participant assessment;
(3) Pre-employment and work maturity skills training;
(4) Work-based learning;
(5) Job search, occupational, and basic skills training; and
(6) Provision of continued services for graduates.

# Subpart H—Community Connections
§ 670.800
How do Job Corps centers and service providers become involved in their local communities?
(a) Job Corps representatives serve on Youth Councils operating under applicable Local Boards wherever geographically feasible.
(b) Each Job Corps center must have a Business and Community Liaison designated by the director of the center to establish relationships with local and distant employers, applicable One-Stop centers and local boards, and members of the community according to procedures established by the Secretary. (WIA sec. 153(a).)
(c) Each Job Corps center must implement an active community relations program.
(d) Each Job Corps center must establish an industry advisory council, according to procedures established by the Secretary. The industry advisory council must include:
(1) Distant and local employers;
(2) Representatives of labor organizations (where present) and employees; and
(3) Job Corps students and graduates.
(e) A majority of the council members must be local and distant business owners, chief executives or chief operating officers of nongovernmental employers or other private sector employers, who have substantial management, hiring or policy responsibility and who represent businesses with employment opportunities in the local area and the areas to which students will return.
(f) The council must work with Local Boards and must review labor market information to provide recommendations to the Secretary regarding the center's vocational training offerings, including identification of emerging occupations suitable for training. (WIA sec.154(b)(1).)
(g) Job Corps is identified as a required One-Stop partner. Wherever practicable, Job Corps centers and operational support contractors must establish cooperative relationships and partnerships with One-Stop centers and other One-Stop partners, Local Boards, and other programs for youth.

# Subpart I—Administrative and Management Provisions
§ 670.900
Are damages caused by the acts or omissions of students eligible for payment under the Federal Tort Claims Act?
Yes, students are considered Federal employees for purposes of the FTCA (28 U.S.C. 2671
et seq.
). Claims for such damage should be filed pursuant to the procedures found in 29 CFR part 15, subpart D.
[77 FR 22207, Apr. 13, 2012]
§ 670.905
Are loss and damages that occur to persons or personal property of students at Job Corps centers eligible for reimbursement?
Yes, the Job Corps may pay students for valid claims under the procedures found in 29 CFR part 15, subpart D.
[77 FR 22207, Apr. 13, 2012]
§ 670.910
If a student is injured in the performance of duty as a Job Corps Student, what benefits may they receive?
(a) Job Corps students are considered Federal employees for purposes of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) as specified in 29 U.S.C. 2897.
(b) Job Corps students may be entitled to benefits under FECA as provided by 5 U.S.C. 8143 for injuries occurring in the performance of duty.
(c) Job Corps students must meet the same eligibility tests for FECA benefits that apply to all other Federal employees. The requirements for FECA benefits may be found at 5 U.S.C. 8101,
et seq.
and part 10 of this title. The Department of Labor's Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) administers the FECA program; all FECA determinations are within the exclusive authority of the OWCP, subject to appeal to the Employees' Compensation Appeals Board.
(d) Whenever a student is injured, develops an occupationally related illness, or dies while in the performance of duty, the procedures of the OWCP, at part 10 of this title, must be followed. To assist OWCP in determining FECA eligibility, a thorough investigation of the circumstances and a medical evaluation must be completed and required forms must be timely filed by the center operator with the DOL's OWCP. Additional information regarding Job Corps FECA claims may be found in OWCP's regulations and procedures available on DOL's Web site located at
www.dol.gov.
[77 FR 22207, Apr. 13, 2012]
§ 670.915
When is a Job Corps student considered to be in the performance of duty?
(a) Performance of duty is a determination that must be made by the OWCP under FECA, and is based on the individual circumstances in each claim.
(b) In general, residential students may be considered to be in the “performance of duty” when:
(1) They are on center under the supervision and control of Job Corps officials;
(2) They are engaged in any authorized Job Corps activity;
(3) They are in authorized travel status; or
(4) They are engaged in any authorized offsite activity.
(c) Non-resident students are generally considered to be “in performance of duty” as Federal employees when they are engaged in any authorized Job Corps activity, from the time they arrive at any scheduled center activity until they leave the activity. The standard rules governing coverage of Federal employees during travel to and from work apply. These rules are described in guidance issued by the Secretary.
(d) Students are generally considered to be not in the performance of duty when:
(1) They are Absent Without Leave (AWOL);
(2) They are at home, whether on pass or on leave;
(3) They are engaged in an unauthorized offsite activity; or
(4) They are injured or ill due to their own willful misconduct, intent to cause injury or death to oneself or another or through intoxication or illegal use of drugs.
[77 FR 22207, Apr. 13, 2012]
§ 670.935
How are students protected from unsafe or unhealthy situations?
(a) The Secretary establishes procedures to ensure that students are not required or permitted to work, be trained, reside in, or receive services in buildings or surroundings or under conditions that are unsanitary or hazardous. Whenever students are employed or in training for jobs, they must be assigned only to jobs or training which observe applicable Federal, State and local health and safety standards.
(b) The Secretary develops procedures to ensure compliance with applicable DOL Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations.
§ 670.940
What are the requirements for criminal law enforcement jurisdiction on center property?
(a) All Job Corps property which would otherwise be under exclusive Federal legislative jurisdiction is considered under concurrent jurisdiction with the appropriate State and locality with respect to criminal law enforcement. Concurrent jurisdiction extends to all portions of the property, including housing and recreational facilities, in addition to the portions of the property used for education and training activities.
(b) Centers located on property under concurrent Federal-State jurisdiction must establish agreements with Federal, State and local law enforcement agencies to enforce criminal laws.
(c) The Secretary develops procedures to ensure that any searches of a student's person, personal area or belongings for unauthorized goods follow applicable right-to-privacy laws.
§ 670.945
Are Job Corps operators and service providers authorized to pay State or local taxes on gross receipts?
(a) A private for-profit or a nonprofit Job Corps service provider is not liable, directly or indirectly, to any State or subdivision for any gross receipts taxes, business privilege taxes measured by gross receipts, or any similar taxes in connection with any payments made to or by such service provider for operating a center or other Job Corps program or activity. The service provider is not liable to any State or subdivision to collect or pay any sales, excise, use, or similar tax imposed upon the sale to or use by such deliverer of any property, service, or other item in connection with the operation of a center or other Job Corps program or activity. (WIA sec. 158(d).)
(b) If a State or local authority compels a center operator or other service provider to pay such taxes, the center
operator or service provider may pay the taxes with Federal funds, but must document and report the State or local requirement according to procedures issued by the Secretary.
§ 670.950
What are the financial management responsibilities of Job Corps center operators and other service providers?
(a) Center operators and other service providers must manage Job Corps funds using financial management information systems that meet the specifications and requirements of the Secretary.
(b) These financial management systems must:
(1) Provide accurate, complete, and current disclosures of the costs of their Job Corps activities;
(2) Ensure that expenditures of funds are necessary, reasonable, allocable and allowable in accordance with applicable cost principles;
(3) Use account structures specified by the Secretary;
(4) Ensure the ability to comply with cost reporting requirements and procedures issued by the Secretary; and
(5) Maintain sufficient cost data for effective planning, monitoring, and evaluation of program activities and for determining the allowability of reported costs.
§ 670.955
Are center operators and service providers subject to Federal audits?
(a) Yes, Center operators and service providers are subject to Federal audits.
(b) The Secretary arranges for the survey, audit, or evaluation of each Job Corps center and service provider at least once every three years, by Federal auditors or independent public accountants. The Secretary may arrange for more frequent audits. (WIA sec. 159(b)(2).)
(c) Center operators and other service providers are responsible for giving full cooperation and access to books, documents, papers and records to duly appointed Federal auditors and evaluators. (WIA sec. 159(b)(1).)
§ 670.960
What are the procedures for management of student records?
The Secretary issues guidelines for a system for maintaining records for each student during enrollment and for disposition of such records after separation.
§ 670.965
What procedures apply to disclosure of information about Job Corps students and program activities?
(a) The Secretary develops procedures to respond to requests for information or records or other necessary disclosures pertaining to students.
(b) DOL disclosure of Job Corps information must be handled according to the Freedom of Information Act and according to DOL regulations at 29 CFR part 70.
(c) Job Corps contractors are not “agencies” for Freedom of Information Act purposes. Therefore, their records are not subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act or 29 CFR part 70.
(d) The regulations at 29 CFR part 71 apply to a system of records covered by the Privacy Act of 1974 maintained by DOL or to a similar system maintained by a contractor, such as a screening agency, contract center operator, or placement agency on behalf of the Job Corps.
§ 670.970
What are the reporting requirements for center operators and operational support service providers?
The Secretary establishes procedures to ensure the timely and complete reporting of necessary financial and program information to maintain accountability. Center operators and operational support service providers are responsible for the accuracy and integrity of all reports and data they provide.
§ 670.975
How is the performance of the Job Corps program assessed?
The performance of the Job Corps program as a whole, and the performance of individual program components, is assessed on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the regulations in this part and procedures and standards, including a national performance measurement system, issued by the
Secretary. Annual performance assessments are done for each center operator and other service providers, including screening and admissions and placement agencies.
§ 670.980
What are the indicators of performance for Job Corps?
(a) At a minimum, the performance assessment system established under § 670.975 will include expected levels of performance established for each of the indicators of performance contained in WIA section 159(c). These are:
(1) The number of graduates and rate of graduation, analyzed by the type of vocational training received and the training provider;
(2) The job placement rate of graduates into unsubsidized employment, analyzed by the vocational training received, whether or not the job placement is related to the training received, the vocational training provider, and whether the placement is made by a local or national service provider;
(3) The average placement wage of graduates in training-related and non-training related unsubsidized jobs;
(4) The average wage of graduates on the first day of employment and at 6 and 12 months following placement, analyzed by the type of vocational training received;
(5) The number of and retention rate of graduates in unsubsidized employment after 6 and 12 months;
(6) The number of graduates who entered unsubsidized employment for 32 hours per week or more, for 20 to 32 hours per week, and for less than 20 hours per week.
(7) The number of graduates placed in higher education or advanced training; and
(8) The number of graduates who attained job readiness and employment skills.
(b) The Secretary issues the expected levels of performance for each indicator. To the extent practicable, the levels of performance will be continuous and consistent from year to year.
§ 670.985
What happens if a center operator, screening and admissions contractor or other service provider fails to meet the expected levels of performance?
(a) The Secretary takes appropriate action to address performance issues through a specific performance plan.
(b) The plan may include the following actions:
(1) Providing technical assistance to a Job Corps center operator or support service provider, including a screening and admissions contractor;
(2) Changing the management staff of a center;
(3) Changing the vocational training offered at a center;
(4) Contracting out or recompeting the contract for a center or operational support service provider;
(5) Reducing the capacity of a Job Corps center;
(6) Relocating a Job Corps center; or
(7) Closing a Job Corps center. (WIA sec. 159 (f).)
§ 670.990
What procedures are available to resolve complaints and disputes?
(a) Each Job Corps center operator and service provider must establish and maintain a grievance procedure for filing complaints and resolving disputes from applicants, students and/or other interested parties about its programs and activities. A hearing on each complaint or dispute must be conducted within 30 days of the filing of the complaint or dispute. A decision on the complaint must be made by the center operator or service provider, as appropriate, within 60 days after the filing of the complaint, and a copy of the decision must be immediately served, by first-class mail, on the complainant and any other party to the complaint. Except for complaints under § 670.470 or complaints alleging fraud or other criminal activity, complaints may be filed within one year of the occurrence that led to the complaint.
(b) The procedure established under paragraph (a) of this section must include procedures to process complaints alleging violations of WIA section 188, consistent with DOL nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIA
section 188 at 29 CFR part 37 and § 670.995.
§ 670.991
How does Job Corps ensure that complaints or disputes are resolved in a timely fashion?
(a) If a complaint is not resolved by the center operator or service provider in the time frames described in § 670.990, the person making the complaint may request that the Regional Director determine whether reasonable cause exists to believe that the Act or regulations for this part of the Act have been violated. The request must be filed with the Regional Director within 60 days from the date that the center operator or service provider should have issued the decision.
(b) Following the receipt of a request for review under paragraph (a) of this section, the Regional Director must determine within 60 days whether there has been a violation of the Act or the WIA regulations. If the Regional Director determines that there has been a violation of the Act or Regulations, (s)he may direct the operator or service provider to remedy the violation or direct the service provider to issue a decision to resolve the dispute according to the service provider's grievance procedures. If the service provider does not comply with the Regional Director's decision within 30 days, the Regional Director may impose a sanction on the center operator or service provider for violating the Act or regulations, and/or for failing to issue a decision. Decisions imposing sanctions upon a center operator or service provider may be appealed to the DOL Office of Administrative Law Judges under 20 CFR 667.800 or 667.840.
§ 670.992
How does Job Corps ensure that centers or other service providers comply with the Act and the WIA regulations?
(a) If DOL receives a complaint or has reason to believe that a center or other service provider is failing to comply with the requirements of the Act or regulations, the Regional Director must investigate the allegation and determine within 90 days after receiving the complaint or otherwise learning of the alleged violation, whether such allegation or complaint is true.
(b) As a result of such a determination, the Regional Director may:
(1) Direct the center operator or service provider to handle a complaint through the grievance procedures established under § 670.990; or
(2) Investigate and determine whether the center operator or service provider is in compliance with the Act and regulations. If the Regional Director determines that the center or service provider is not in compliance with the Act or regulations, the Regional Director may take action to resolve the complaint under § 670.991(b), or will report the incident to the DOL Office of the Inspector General, as described in 20 CFR 667.630.
§ 670.993
How does Job Corps ensure that contract disputes will be resolved?
A dispute between DOL and a Job Corps contractor will be handled according to the Contract Disputes Act and applicable regulations.
§ 670.994
How does Job Corps resolve disputes between DOL and other Federal Agencies?
Disputes between DOL and a Federal Agency operating a center will be handled according to the interagency agreement with the agency which is operating the center.
§ 670.995
What DOL equal opportunity and nondiscrimination regulations apply to Job Corps?
Nondiscrimination requirements, procedures, complaint processing, and compliance reviews are governed by, as applicable, provisions of the following Department of Labor regulations:
(a) Regulations implementing WIA section 188 for programs receiving Federal financial assistance under WIA found at 29 CFR part 37.
(b) 29 CFR part 33 for programs conducted by the Department of Labor; and
(c) 41 CFR Chapter 60 for entities that have a Federal government contract.
Pt. 671

# PART 671—NATIONAL EMERGENCY GRANTS FOR DISLOCATED WORKERS
Sec.
671.100
What is the purpose of national emergency grants under WIA section 173?
671.105
What funds are available for national emergency grants?
671.110
What are major economic dislocations or other events which may qualify for a national emergency grant?
671.120
Who is eligible to apply for national emergency grants?
671.125
What are the requirements for submitting applications for national emergency grants?
671.130
When should applications for national emergency grants be submitted to the Department?
671.140
What are the allowable activities and what dislocated workers may be served under national emergency grants?
671.150
How do statutory and workflex waivers apply to national emergency grants?
671.160
What rapid response activities are required before a national emergency grant application is submitted?
671.170
What are the program and administrative requirements that apply to national emergency grants?

# Authority:
Sec. 506(c), Pub. L. 105-220; 20 U.S.C. 9276(c).

# Source:
65 FR 49460, Aug. 11, 2000, unless otherwise noted.
§ 671.100
What is the purpose of national emergency grants under WIA section 173?
The purpose of national emergency grants is to provide supplemental dislocated worker funds to States, Local Boards and other eligible entities in order to respond to the needs of dislocated workers and communities affected by major economic dislocations and other worker dislocation events which cannot be met with formula allotments.
§ 671.105
What funds are available for national emergency grants?
We use funds reserved under WIA section 132(a)(2)(A) to provide financial assistance to eligible applicant for grants under WIA section 173.
§ 671.110
What are major economic dislocations or other events which may qualify for a national emergency grant?
These include:
(a) Plant closures;
(b) Mass layoffs affecting 50 or more workers at a single site of employment;
(c) Closures and realignments of military installations;
(d) Multiple layoffs in a single local community that have significantly increased the total number of unemployed individuals in a community;
(e) Emergencies or natural disasters, as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2) respectively, of section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122(1) and (2)) which have been declared eligible for public assistance by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
(f) Other events, as determined by the Secretary.
§ 671.120
Who is eligible to apply for national emergency grants?
(a)
For projects within a State.
A State, a Local Board or another entity determined to be appropriate by the Governor of the State in which the project is located may apply for a national emergency grant. Also, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, Alaska Native entities, Indian-controlled organizations serving Indians, or Native Hawaiian organizations which are recipients of funds under section 166 of the Act (Indian and Native American Programs) may apply for a national emergency grant.
(b)
For inter-State projects.
Consortia of States and/or Local Boards may apply. Other private entities which can demonstrate, in the application for assistance, that they possess unique capabilities to effectively respond to the circumstances of the major economic dislocation(s) covered in the application may apply.
(c)
Other entities.
The Secretary may consider applications from other entities, to ensure that appropriate assistance is provided in response to major economic dislocations.
§ 671.125
What are the requirements for submitting applications for national emergency grants?
We publish instructions for submitting applications for National Emergency Grants in the
Federal Register.
The instructions specify application procedures, selection criteria and the approval process.
§ 671.130
When should applications for national emergency grants be submitted to the Department?
(a) Applications for national emergency grants to respond to mass layoffs and plant closures may be submitted to the Department as soon as:
(1) The State receives a notification of a mass layoff or a closure as a result of a WARN notice, a general announcement or some other means determined by the Governor to be sufficient to respond;
(2) Rapid response assistance has been initiated; and
(3) A determination has been made, in collaboration with the applicable Local Board(s) and chief elected official(s), that State and local formula dislocated worker funds are inadequate to provide the level of services needed by the workers being laid off.
(b) An eligible entity may apply for a national emergency grant at any time during the year.
(c) Applications for national emergency grants to respond to a declared emergency or natural disaster as described in § 671.110(e), cannot be considered until FEMA has declared that the affected area is eligible for disaster-related public assistance.
§ 671.140
What are the allowable activities and what dislocated workers may be served under national emergency grants?
(a) National emergency grants may provide adjustment assistance for eligible dislocated workers, described at WIA section 173(c)(2) or (d)(2).
(b) Adjustment assistance includes the core, intensive, and training services authorized at WIA sections 134(d) and 173. The scope of services to be provided in a particular project are negotiated between the Department and the grantee, taking into account the needs of the target population covered by the grant. The scope of services may be changed through grant modifications, if necessary.
(c) National emergency grants may provide for supportive services to help workers who require such assistance to participate in activities provided for in the grant. Needs-related payments, in support of other employment and training assistance, may be available for the purpose of enabling dislocated workers who are eligible for such payments to participate in programs of training services. Generally, the terms of a grant must be consistent with Local Board policies governing such financial assistance with formula funds (including the payment levels and duration of payments). However, the terms of the grant agreement may diverge from established Local Board policies, in the following instances:
(1) If unemployed dislocated workers served by the project are not able to meet the 13 or 8 weeks enrollment in training requirement at WIA section 134(e)(3)(B) because of the lack of formula or emergency grant funds in the State or local area at the time of dislocation, such individuals may be eligible for needs-related payments if they are enrolled in training by the end of the 6th week following the date of the emergency grant award;
(2) Trade-impacted workers who are not eligible for trade readjustment assistance under NAFTA-TAA may be eligible for needs-related payments under a national emergency grant if the worker is enrolled in training by the end of the 16th week following layoff; and
(3) Under other circumstances as specified in the national emergency grant application guidelines.
(d) A national emergency grant to respond to a declared emergency or natural disaster, as defined at § 671.110(e), may provide short-term disaster relief employment for:
(1) Individuals who are temporarily or permanently laid off as a consequence of the disaster;
(2) Dislocated workers; and
(3) Long-term unemployed individuals.
(e) Temporary employment assistance is authorized on disaster projects that provide food, clothing, shelter and
other humanitarian assistance for disaster victims; and on projects that perform demolition, cleaning, repair, renovation and reconstruction of damaged and destroyed structures, facilities and lands located within the disaster area. For such temporary jobs, each eligible worker is limited to no more than six months of employment for each single disaster. The amounts, duration and other limitations on wages will be negotiated for each grant.
(f) Additional requirements that apply to national emergency grants, including natural disaster grants, are contained in the application instructions.
§ 671.150
How do statutory and workflex waivers apply to national emergency grants?
(a) State and Local Board grantees may request and we may approve the application of existing general statutory or regulatory waivers and workflex waivers to a National Emergency Grant award. The application for grant funds must describe any statutory waivers which the applicant wishes to apply to the project that the State and/or Local Board, as applicable, have been granted under its waiver plan, or that the State has approved for implementation in the applicable local area under workflex waivers. We will consider such requests as part of the overall application review and decision process.
(b) If, during the operation of the project, the grantee wishes to apply a waiver not identified in the application, the grantee must request a modification which includes the provision to be waived, the operational barrier to be removed and the effect upon the outcome of the project.
§ 671.160
What rapid response activities are required before a national emergency grant application is submitted?
(a) Rapid response is a required Statewide activity under WIA section 134(a)(2)(A), to be carried out by the State or its designee in collaboration with the Local Board(s) and chief elected official(s). Under 20 CFR 665.310, rapid response encompasses, among other activities, an assessment of the general needs of the affected workers and the resources available to them.
(b) In accordance with national emergency grant application guidelines published by the Department, each applicant must demonstrate that:
(1) The rapid response activities described in 20 CFR 665.310 have been initiated and carried out, or are in the process of being carried out;
(2) State and local funds, including those made available under section 132(b)(2)(B) of the Act, have been used to initiate appropriate services to the eligible workers;
(3) There is a need for additional funds to effectively respond to the assistance needs of the workers and, in the case of declared emergencies and natural disasters, the community; and
(4) The application has been developed by or in conjunction with the Local Board(s) and chief elected official(s) of the local area(s) in which the proposed project is to operate.
§ 671.170
What are the program and administrative requirements that apply to national emergency grants?
(a) In general, the program requirements and administrative standards set forth at 20 CFR parts 663 and 667 will apply.
(b) Exceptions include:
(1) Funds provided in response to a natural disaster may be used for temporary job creation in areas declared eligible for public assistance by FEMA, subject to the limitations of WIA section 173(d), this part and the application guidelines issued by the Department;
(2) National emergency grant funds may be used to pay an appropriate level of administrative costs based on the design and complexity of the project. We will negotiate administration costs with the applicant as part of the application review and grant award and modification processes;
(3) The period of availability for expenditure of funds under a national emergency grant is specified in the grant agreement.
(4) We may establish supplemental reporting, monitoring and oversight requirements for national emergency
grants. The requirements will be identified in the grant application instructions or the grant document.
(5) We may negotiate and fund projects under terms other than those specified in this part where it can be clearly demonstrated that such adjustments will achieve a greater positive benefit for the workers and/or communities being assisted.
Pt. 672

# PART 672—PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE YOUTHBUILD PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
Sec.
672.100
What is YouthBuild?
672.105
What are the purposes of the YouthBuild program?
672.110
What definitions apply to this part?

# Subpart B—Funding and Grant Applications
672.200
How are YouthBuild grants funded and administered?
672.205
How does an eligible entity apply for grant funds to operate a YouthBuild program?
672.210
How are eligible entities selected to receive grant funds?
672.215
How are eligible entities notified of approval for grant funds?

# Subpart C—Program Requirements
672.300
Who is an eligible participant?
672.305
Are there special rules that apply to veterans?
672.310
What eligible activities may be funded under the YouthBuild program?
672.315
What timeframes apply to participation?
672.320
What timeframes must be devoted to education and workforce investment or other activities?
672.325
What timeframes apply for follow-up services?

# Subpart D—Performance Indicators
672.400
What are the performance indicators for YouthBuild grants?
672.405
What are the required levels of performance for the performance indicators?
672.410
What are the reporting requirements for YouthBuild grantees?
672.415
What are the due dates for quarterly reporting?

# Subpart E—Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
672.500
What administrative regulations apply to the YouthBuild program?
672.505
How may grantees provide services under the YouthBuild program?
672.510
What cost limits apply to the use of YouthBuild program funds?
672.515
What are the cost-sharing or matching requirements of the YouthBuild program?
672.520
What are considered to be leveraged funds?
672.525
How are the costs associated with real property treated in the YouthBuild program?
672.530
What participant costs are allowable under the YouthBuild program?
672.535
What effect do payments to YouthBuild participants have on eligibility for other Federal need-based benefits?
672.540
What program income requirements apply under the YouthBuild program?
672.545
Are YouthBuild programs subject to the Davis-Bacon Act labor standards?
672.550
What are the recordkeeping requirements for YouthBuild programs?

# Subpart F—Additional Requirements
672.600
What are the safety requirements for the YouthBuild Program?
672.605
What are the reporting requirements for youth safety?
672.610
What environmental protection laws apply to the YouthBuild Program?
672.615
What requirements apply to YouthBuild housing?

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 2918a.

# Source:
77 FR 9129, Feb. 15, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Definitions
§ 672.100
What is YouthBuild?
(a) YouthBuild is a workforce development program that provides employment, education, leadership development, and training opportunities to disadvantaged and low-income youth between the ages of 16 and 24, most of whom are secondary school drop outs and are either a member of a low-income family, a foster care youth, a youth offender, a youth with a disability, a child of an incarcerated parent, or a migrant youth.
(b) Program participants receive education services that may lead to either
a high school diploma or General Educational Development (GED). Further, they receive occupational skills training and are encouraged to pursue a post- secondary education or additional training, including registered apprenticeship programs. The program is designed to create a skilled workforce either in the construction industry, through the rehabilitation and construction of housing for homeless individuals and families and low- income families, as well as public facilities, or in other high wage, high-demand jobs. The program also benefits the larger community because it provides more new and rehabilitated affordable housing.
§ 672.105
What are the purposes of the YouthBuild program?
(a) The overarching goal of the YouthBuild program is to provide disadvantaged and low-income youth the opportunity to obtain education and employment skills in local in-demand and high-demand jobs to achieve economic self-sufficiency. Additionally, the YouthBuild program has as goals:
(1) To promote leadership skills development and community service activities. YouthBuild programs will foster the development of leadership skills and a commitment to community improvement among youth in low-income communities.
(2) To enable youth to further their education and training. YouthBuild programs will provide counseling and assistance in obtaining post-secondary education and/or employment and training placements that allow youth to further their education and training.
(3) To expand the supply of permanent affordable housing and reduce the rate of homelessness in communities with YouthBuild programs. The program seeks to increase the number of affordable housing units available and to decrease the number of homeless individuals and families in their communities.
(b) Through these educational and occupational opportunities, to enable youth participants to provide a valuable contribution to their communities. The YouthBuild program will add skilled workers to the workforce by educating and training youth who might have otherwise succumbed to the negative influences within their environments.
§ 672.110
What definitions apply to this part?
Alternative school.
The term “alternative school” means a school or program that is set up by a State, school district, or other community-based entity to serve young people who are not succeeding in a traditional public school environment. In order for an “alternative school” to qualify as of part of a “sequential service strategy” it must be recognized by the authorizing entity designated by the State, award a high school diploma or both a high school diploma and a GED and, must be affiliated with a YouthBuild program.
Community or other public facility.
The term “community or other public facility” means those facilities which are either privately owned by non-profit organizations, including faith-based and community-based organizations, and publicly used for the benefit of the community, or publicly owned and publicly used for the benefit of the community.
Core construction.
The term “core construction” means activities that are directly related to the construction or rehabilitation of residential, community, or other public facilities. These activities include, but are not limited to, job skills that can be found under the Standard Occupational Classification System (SOC) major group 47, Construction and Extraction Occupations, in codes 47-1011 through 47-4099. These activities may also include, but are not limited to, construction skills that may be required by green building and weatherization industries but are not yet standardized. A full list of the SOC's can be found at the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Web site,
http://www.bls.gov/soc.
Eligible entity.
The term “eligible entity” means a public or private nonprofit agency or organization (including a consortium of such agencies or organizations), including—
(1) A community-based organization;
(2) A faith-based organization;
(3) An entity carrying out activities under this Title, such as a local school board;
(4) A community action agency;
(5) A State or local housing development agency;
(6) An Indian tribe or other agency primarily serving Indians;
(7) A community development corporation;
(8) A State or local youth service or conservation corps; and
(9) Any other entity eligible to provide education or employment training under a Federal program (other than the program carried out under this part).
Homeless individual.
For purposes of YouthBuild, the definition of “homeless individual” at Section 103 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302) applies.
Housing development agency.
The term “housing development agency” means any agency of a Federal, State or local government, or any private nonprofit organization, that is engaged in providing housing for homeless individuals or low-income families.
Income.
As defined in 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b), “income” is: Income from all sources of each member of the household, as determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, except that any amounts not actually received by the family and any amounts which would be eligible for exclusion under sec. 1382b(a)(7) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, may not be considered as income under this paragraph.
Indian; Indian tribe.
As defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b of sec. 4 of the Indian Self- Determination and Education Assistance Act, the term “Indian” is a person who is a member of an Indian tribe; and the term “Indian tribe” is any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Individual of limited English proficiency.
As defined in 20 U.S.C. 9202(10), an “individual of limited English proficiency” is: An adult or out- of-school youth who has limited ability in speaking, reading, writing, or understanding the English language, and:
(1) Whose native language is a language other than English; or
(2) Who lives in a family or community environment where a language other than English is the dominant language.
Low-income family.
As defined in 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2), a “low-income family” is: A family whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary of Labor with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that the Secretary of Labor may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area if the Secretary finds that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. Further, as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2)(3), the term families includes families consisting of one person.
Migrant youth.
The term “migrant youth” means a youth, or a youth who is the dependent of someone who, during the previous 12 months has:
(1) Worked at least 25 days in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment;
(2) Made at least $800 from agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment, if at least 50 percent of his or her income came from such agricultural labor;
(3) Was employed at least 50 percent of his or her total employment in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment; or
(4) Was employed in agricultural labor that requires travel to a jobsite such that the farmworker is unable to return to a permanent place of residence within the same day.
Needs-based stipend.
The term “Needs-based stipends” means additional payments (beyond regular stipends for program participation) that are based on defined needs that enable youth to participate in the program. To provide needs-based stipends the grantee must have a written policy in place, which defines: Eligibility; the amounts; and the required documentation and criteria for payments. This policy must be applied consistently to all program participants.
Occupational skills training.
The term “Occupational skills training” means an organized program of study that provides specific vocational skills that lead to proficiency in performing the actual tasks and technical functions required by certain occupational fields at entry, intermediate, or advanced levels. The occupational skills training offered in YouthBuild programs must begin upon program enrollment and be tied to the award of an industry-recognized credential.
Partnership.
The term “partnership” means an agreement that involves a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or letter of commitment submitted by each organization and applicant, as defined in the YouthBuild Transfer Act, that plan on working together as partners in a YouthBuild program. Each partner must have a clearly defined role. These roles must be verified through a letter of commitment, not just a letter of support, or an MOU submitted by each partner. The letter of commitment or MOU must detail the role the partner will play in the YouthBuild Program, including the partner's specific responsibilities and resources committed, if appropriate. These letters or MOUs must clearly indicate the partnering organization's unique contribution and commitment to the YouthBuild Program.
Public housing agency.
As defined in 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b), a “public housing agency” is: Any State, county, municipality or other government entity or public body, or agency or instrumentality of these entities, that is authorized to engage or assist in the development or operation of low- income housing.
Registered apprenticeship program.
The term “registered apprenticeship program” means:
(1) Registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act”; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 20 U.S.C. 50
et seq.
); and
(2) A program with a plan containing all terms and conditions for the qualification, recruitment, selection, employment and training of apprentices, as required under 29 CFR parts 29 and 30, including such matters as the requirement for a written apprenticeship agreement.
Sequential service strategy.
The term “sequential service strategy” means the educational and occupational skills training plan developed for individuals who have dropped out of high school and want to enroll in a YouthBuild program. The plan is designed so that the individual sequentially enrolls in an alternative school, and after receiving a year or more of educational services, enrolls in the YouthBuild program.
Transitional housing.
The term “transitional housing” means housing provided for the purpose of facilitating the movement of homeless individuals to independent living within a reasonable amount of time. The term includes housing primarily designed to serve deinstitutionalized homeless individuals and other homeless individuals who are individuals with disabilities or are members of families with children.
Youth in foster care.
The term “youth in foster care” means youth currently in foster care or youth who have ever been in foster care.
Youth who is an individual with a disability.
The term youth who is an individual with a disability means a youth with any disability (as defined in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102)) or a student receiving special education and related services under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).

# Subpart B—Funding and Grant Applications
§ 672.200
How are YouthBuild grants funded and administered?
The Secretary uses funds authorized for appropriation under sec. 173A of the Workforce Investment Act (WIA) to administer YouthBuild as a national program under Title I, Subtitle D of the Act. YouthBuild grants are awarded to eligible entities, as defined in § 672.110, through a competitive selection process described in § 672.205.
§ 672.205
How does an eligible entity apply for grant funds to operate a YouthBuild program?
The Secretary announces the availability of grant funds through a Solicitation for Grant Applications (SGA). The SGA contains instructions for what is required in the grant application, describes eligibility requirements, the rating criteria that will be used in reviewing grant applications, and special reporting requirements to operate a YouthBuild project.
§ 672.210
How are eligible entities selected to receive grant funds?
In order to receive funds under the YouthBuild program, an eligible entity applying for funds (applicant) must meet selection criteria established by the Secretary which include:
(a) The qualifications or potential capabilities of an applicant;
(b) An applicant's potential to develop a successful YouthBuild program;
(c) The need for an applicant's proposed program, as determined by the degree of economic distress of the community from which participants would be recruited (measured by indicators such as poverty, youth unemployment, and the number of individuals who have dropped out of secondary school) and of the community in which the housing and public facilities proposed to be rehabilitated or constructed are located (measured by indicators such as incidence of homelessness, shortage of affordable housing, and poverty);
(d) The commitment of an applicant to provide skills training, leadership development, counseling and case management, and education to participants;
(e) The focus of a proposed program on preparing youth for postsecondary education and training opportunities or local in-demand occupations;
(f) The extent of an applicant's coordination of activities to be carried out through the proposed program with:
(1) Local boards, One-Stop Career Center operators, and One-Stop partners participating in the operation of the One-Stop delivery system involved, or the extent of the applicant's good faith efforts, as determined by the Secretary, in achieving such coordination;
(2) Public education, criminal justice, housing and community development, national service, or postsecondary education or other systems that relate to the goals of the proposed program; and
(3) Employers in the local area.
(g) The extent to which a proposed program provides for inclusion of tenants who were previously homeless individuals or families in the rental of housing provided through the program;
(h) The commitment of additional resources to the proposed program (in addition to the funds made available through the grant) by:
(1) An applicant;
(2) Recipients of other Federal, State, or local housing and community development assistance who will sponsor any part of the rehabilitation, construction, operation and maintenance, or other housing and community development activities undertaken as part of the proposed program; or
(3) Entities carrying out other Federal, State, or local activities or activities conducted by Indian tribes, including vocational education programs, adult and language instruction educational programs, and job training using funds provided under WIA,
(i) An applicant's ability to enter partnerships with:
(1) Education and training providers including:
(i) The kindergarten through twelfth grade educational system;
(ii) Adult education programs;
(iii) Community and technical colleges;
(iv) Four-year colleges and universities;
(v) Registered apprenticeship programs; and
(vi) Other training entities.
(2) Employers, including professional organizations and associations. An applicant will be evaluated on the extent to which employers participate in:
(i) Defining the program strategy and goals;
(ii) Identifying needed skills and competencies;
(iii) Designing training approaches and curricula;
(iv) Contributing financial support; and
(v) Hiring qualified YouthBuild graduates.
(3) The workforce investment system which may include:
(i) State and local workforce investment boards;
(ii) State workforce agencies; and
(iii) One-Stop Career Centers and their cooperating partners.
(4) The juvenile and adult justice systems, and the extent to which they provide:
(i) Support and guidance for YouthBuild participants with court involvement;
(ii) Assistance in the reporting of recidivism rates among YouthBuild participants; and
(iii) Referrals of eligible participants through diversion or re-entry from incarceration.
(5) Faith-based and community organizations, and the extent to which they provide a variety of grant services such as:
(i) Case management;
(ii) Mentoring;
(iii) English as a Second Language courses; and
(iv) Other comprehensive supportive services, when appropriate.
(j) The applicant's potential to serve different regions, including rural areas and States that may not have previously received grants for YouthBuild programs; and
(k) Such other factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate for purposes of evaluating an applicant's potential to carry out the proposed program in an effective and efficient manner.
(l) The weight to be given to these factors will be described in the SGA issued under § 672.205.
§ 672.215
How are eligible entities notified of approval for grant funds?
The Secretary will, to the extent practicable, notify each eligible entity applying for funds no later than 5 months from the date the application is received, whether the application is approved or disapproved. In the event additional funds become available, ETA reserves the right to use such funds to select additional grantees from applications submitted in response to an SGA.

# Subpart C—Program Requirements
§ 672.300
Who is an eligible participant?
(a)
Eligibility criteria.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an individual is eligible to participate in a YouthBuild program if the individual is:
(1) Not less than age 16 and not more than age 24 on the date of enrollment; and
(2) A school dropout or an individual who has dropped out of school and reenrolled in an alternative school, if that reenrollment is part of a sequential service strategy; and
(3) Is one or more of the following:
(i) A member of a low-income family as defined in § 672.110;
(ii) A youth in foster care;
(iii) A youth offender;
(iv) A youth who is an individual with a disability;
(v) The child of a current or formerly incarcerated parent; or
(vi) A migrant youth as defined in § 672.110.
(b)
Exceptions.
Not more than 25 percent of the participants in a program, under this section, may be individuals who do not meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, if such individuals:
(1) Are basic skills deficient as defined in section 101(4) of WIA, even if they have their high school diploma, GED credential, or other State-recognized equivalent; or
(2) Have been referred by a local secondary school for participation in a YouthBuild program leading to the attainment of a secondary school diploma.
§ 672.305
Are there special rules that apply to veterans?
Special rules for determining income for veterans are found in 20 CFR 667.255 and for the priority of service provisions for qualified persons are found in 20 CFR part 1010. Those special rules apply to covered persons who are eligible to participate in the YouthBuild program.
§ 672.310
What eligible activities may be funded under the YouthBuild program?
Grantees may provide one or more of the following education and workforce investment and other activities to YouthBuild participants—
(a) Eligible education activities include:
(1) Services and activities designed to meet the educational needs of participants, including:
(i) Basic skills instruction and remedial education;
(ii) Language instruction educational programs for individuals with limited English proficiency;
(iii) Secondary education services and activities, including tutoring, study skills training, and dropout prevention activities, designed to lead to the attainment of a secondary school diploma, GED credential, or other State- recognized equivalent (including recognized alternative standards for individuals with disabilities);
(iv) Counseling and assistance in obtaining post-secondary education and required financial aid; and
(v) Alternative secondary school services;
(2) Counseling services and related activities, such as comprehensive guidance and counseling on drug and alcohol abuse and referral to appropriate treatment;
(3) Activities designed to develop employment and leadership skills, which may include community service and peer-centered activities encouraging responsibility and other positive social behaviors, and activities related to youth policy committees that participate in decisionmaking related to the program; and
(4) Supportive services, as defined under Title I of WIA Section 101(46), and provision of need-based stipends, as defined in § 672.110.
(b) Eligible workforce investment activities include:
(1) Work experience and skills training (coordinated, to the maximum extent feasible, with registered apprenticeship programs) in housing rehabilitation and construction activities described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section;
(2) Occupational skills training;
(3) Other paid and unpaid work experiences, including internships and job shadowing; and
(4) Job search assistance.
(c) Other eligible activities include:
(1) Supervision and training for participants in the rehabilitation or construction of housing, including residential housing for homeless individuals and families or low-income families, or transitional housing for homeless individuals and families;
(2) Supervision and training for participants in the rehabilitation or construction of community or other public facilities, except that, as provided in § 672.505(b), not more than 10 percent of the funds awarded for each grant may be used for such supervision and training;
(3) Ongoing training and technical assistance for staff of grant recipients that is related to developing and carrying out the YouthBuild program;
(4) Payment of a portion of the administrative costs of the program as provided in § 672.505(a);
(5) Adult mentoring;
(6) Provision of wages, stipends, or additional benefits to participants in the program as provided in § 672.530; and
(7) Follow-up services as provided in § 672.325.
§ 672.315
What timeframes apply to participation?
An eligible individual selected for participation in the program must be offered full-time participation in the program for not less than 6 months and not more than 24 months.
§ 672.320
What timeframes must be devoted to education and workforce investment or other activities?
YouthBuild grantees must structure programs so that participants in the program are offered:
(a) Eligible education activities, as specified in § 672.310(a), during at least 50 percent of the time during which they participate in the program; and
(b) Eligible workforce investment activities, as specified in § 672.310(b), during at least 40 percent of the time during which they participate in the program. Grantees must provide the eligible workforce investment activities described in § 672.310(b)(1) as part of their program of eligible workforce investment activities.
(c) The remaining 10 percent of the time of participation can be used for the activities described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and/or for leadership development and community service activities.
§ 672.325
What timeframes apply for follow-up services?
Follow-up services must be provided to all YouthBuild participants for a period of not less than 9 months but no more than 12 months after participants exit a YouthBuild program. These are services that assist participants in obtaining or retaining employment, or applying for and transitioning to post-secondary education or training.

# Subpart D—Performance Indicators
§ 672.400
What are the performance indicators for YouthBuild grants?
(a) The performance indicators for YouthBuild grants are:
(1) Placement in employment or education;
(2) Attainment of a degree or certificate;
(3) Literacy and numeracy gains; and
(4) Such other indicators of performance as may be required by the Secretary.
(b) We will provide the details of the performance indicators in administrative guidance.
§ 672.405
What are the required levels of performance for the performance indicators?
(a) Expected levels of performance for each of the common performance indicators are national standards that are provided in separately issued guidance. Short-term or other performance indicators will be provided in separately issued guidance or as part of the SGA or grant agreement. Performance level expectations are based on available YouthBuild data and data from similar WIA Youth programs and may change between grant competitions. The expected national levels of performance will take into account the extent to which the levels promote continuous improvement in performance.
(b) The levels of performance established will, at a minimum:
(1) Be expressed in an objective, quantifiable, and measurable form; and
(2) Indicate continuous improvement in performance.
§ 672.410
What are the reporting requirements for YouthBuild grantees?
Each grantee must provide such reports as are required by the Secretary in separately issued guidance, including:
(a) The Quarterly Performance Report;
(b) The quarterly narrative progress report;
(c) The financial report; and
(d) Such other reports as may be required by the grant agreement.
§ 672.415
What are the due dates for quarterly reporting?
(a) Quarterly reports are due no later than 45 days after the end of the reporting quarter, unless otherwise specified in the reporting guidance issued under § 672.410; and
(b) A final financial report is required 90 days after the expiration of a funding period or the termination of grant support.

# Subpart E—Administrative Rules, Costs, and Limitations
§ 672.500
What administrative regulations apply to the YouthBuild program?
Each YouthBuild grantee must comply with the following:
(a) The regulations found in this part.
(b) The general administrative requirements found in 20 CFR part 667, except those that apply only to the WIA Title I-B program and those that have been modified by this section.
(c) The Department's regulations on government-wide requirements, which include:
(1) The regulations codifying the Office of Management and Budget's government-wide grants requirements: Circular A-110 (codified at 2 CFR part 215), and Circular A-102 at 29 CFR parts 95 and 97, as applicable;
(2) The Department's regulations at 29 CFR part 37, which implement the nondiscrimination provisions of WIA section 188;
(3) The Department's regulations at 29 CFR parts 93, 94, and 98 relating to restrictions on lobbying, drug free workplace, and debarment and suspension; and
(4) The audit requirements of OMB Circular A-133 stated at 29 CFR part 99, as required by 29 CFR 96.11, 95.26, and 97.26, as applicable.
§ 672.505
How may grantees provide services under the YouthBuild program?
Each recipient of a grant under the YouthBuild program may provide the services and activities described in these regulations either directly or through subgrants, contracts, or other arrangements with local educational agencies, postsecondary educational institutions, State or local housing development agencies, other public agencies, including agencies of Indian tribes, or private organizations.
§ 672.510
What cost limits apply to the use of YouthBuild program funds?
(a) Administrative costs for programs operated under YouthBuild are limited to no more than 15 percent of the grant award. The definition of administrative costs can be found in 20 CFR 667.220.
(b) The cost of supervision and training for participants involved in the rehabilitation or construction of community and other public facilities is limited to no more than 10 percent of the grant award.
§ 672.515
What are the cost-sharing or matching requirements of the YouthBuild program?
(a) The cost-sharing or matching requirements applicable to a YouthBuild grant will be addressed in the grant agreement.
(b) The value of construction materials used in the YouthBuild program is an allowable cost for the purposes of the required non-Federal share or match.
(c) The value of land acquired for the YouthBuild program is not an allowable cost-sharing or match.
(d) Federal funds may not be used as cost-sharing or match resources except as provided by Federal law.
(e) The value of buildings acquired for the YouthBuild program is an allowable match, provided that the following conditions apply:
(1) The purchase cost of buildings used solely for training purposes is allowable; and
(2) For buildings used for training and other purposes, the allowable amount is determined based on the proportionate share of the purchase price related to direct training activities.
(f) Grantees must follow the requirements of 29 CFR 95.23 or 29 CFR 97.24 in the accounting, valuation, and reporting of the required non-Federal share.
§ 672.520
What are considered to be leveraged funds?
(a) Leveraged funds may be used to support allowable YouthBuild program activities and consist of payments made for allowable costs funded by both non-YouthBuild Federal, and non-Federal, resources which include:
(1) Costs which meet the criteria for cost-sharing or match in § 672.515 and are in excess of the amount of cost-sharing or match resources required;
(2) Costs which would meet the criteria in § 672.515 except that they are
paid for with other Federal resources; and
(3) Costs which benefit the grant program and are otherwise allowable under the cost principles but are not allowable under the grant because of some statutory, regulatory, or grant provision, whether paid for with Federal or non-Federal resources.
(b) The use of leveraged funds must be reported in accordance with Departmental instructions.
§ 672.525
How are the costs associated with real property treated in the YouthBuild program?
(a) As provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the costs of the following activities associated with real property are allowable solely for the purpose of training YouthBuild participants:
(1) Rehabilitation of existing structures for use by homeless individuals and families or low-income families or for use as transitional housing.
(2) Construction of buildings for use by homeless individuals and families or low-income families or for use as transitional housing.
(3) Construction or rehabilitation of community or other public facilities, except, as provided in § 672.510(b), only 10 percent of the grant award is allowable for such construction and rehabilitation.
(b) The costs for acquisition of buildings that are used for activities described in paragraph (a) of this section are allowable with prior grant officer approval and only under the following conditions:
(1) The purchase cost of buildings used solely for training purposes is allowable; and
(2) For buildings used for training and other purposes, the allowable amount is determined based on the proportionate share of the purchase cost related to direct training.
(c) The following costs are allowable to the extent allocable to training YouthBuild participants in the construction and rehabilitation activities specified in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Trainees' tools and clothing including personal protective equipment (PPE);
(2) On-site trainee supervisors;
(3) Construction management;
(4) Relocation of buildings; and
(5) Clearance and demolition.
(d) Architectural fees, or a proportionate share thereof, are allowable when such fees can be related to items such as architectural plans or blueprints on which participants will be trained.
(e) The following costs are unallowable:
(1) The costs of acquisition of land.
(2) Brokerage fees.
§ 672.530
What participant costs are allowable under the YouthBuild program?
Allowable participant costs include:
(a) The costs of payments to participants engaged in eligible work-related YouthBuild activities.
(b) The costs of payments provided to participants engaged in non-work- related YouthBuild activities.
(c) The costs of needs-based stipends.
(d) The costs of supportive services.
(e) The costs of providing additional benefits to participants or individuals who have exited the program and are receiving follow-up services, which may include:
(1) Tuition assistance for obtaining college education credits;
(2) Scholarships to an Apprenticeship, Technical, or Secondary Education program; and
(3) Sponsored health programs.
§ 672.535
What effect do payments to YouthBuild participants have on eligibility for other Federal need-based benefits?
Under 20 CFR 667.272(c), allowances, earnings, and payments to individuals participating in programs under Title I of WIA are not considered as income for purposes of determining eligibility for and the amount of income transfer and in-kind aid furnished under any Federal or Federally-assisted program based on need other than as provided under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301).
§ 672.540
What program income requirements apply under the YouthBuild program?
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, program income requirements, as specified in the applicable Uniform Administrative Requirements at 29 CFR 95.24 and 97.25, apply to YouthBuild grants.
(b) Revenue from the sale of buildings rehabilitated or constructed under the YouthBuild program to homeless individuals and families and low-income families is not considered program income. Grantees are encouraged to use that revenue for the long-term sustainability of the YouthBuild program.
§ 672.545
Are YouthBuild programs subject to the Davis-Bacon Act labor standards?
(a) YouthBuild programs and grantees are subject to Davis-Bacon labor standards requirements under the circumstances set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. In those instances where a grantee is subject to Davis-Bacon requirements, the grantee must follow applicable requirements in the Department's regulations at 29 CFR parts 1, 3, and 5, including the requirements contained in the Davis-Bacon contract provisions set forth in 29 CFR 5.5.
(b) YouthBuild participants are subject to Davis-Bacon Act labor standards when they perform Davis-Bacon-covered laborer or mechanic work, defined at 29 CFR 5.2, on Federal or Federally-assisted projects that are subject to the Davis-Bacon Act labor standards. The Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements apply to hours worked on the site of the work.
(c) YouthBuild participants who are not registered and participating in a training program approved by the Employment and Training Administration must be paid not less than the applicable wage rate on the wage determination for the classification of work actually performed.
§ 672.550
What are the recordkeeping requirements for YouthBuild programs?
(a) Grantees must follow the recordkeeping requirements specified in the Uniform Administrative Requirements, at 29 CFR 95.53 and 29 CFR 97.42, as appropriate.
(b) Grantees must maintain such additional records related to the use of buildings constructed or rehabilitated with YouthBuild funds as specified in the grant agreement or in the Department's guidance.

# Subpart F—Additional Requirements
§ 672.600
What are the safety requirements for the YouthBuild program?
(a) YouthBuild Grantees must comply with 20 CFR 667.274, which applies Federal and State health and safety standards to the working conditions under WIA-funded projects and programs. These health and safety standards include “hazardous orders” governing child labor under 29 CFR part 570 prohibiting youth ages 16 and 17 from working in identified hazardous occupations.
(b) YouthBuild grantees are required to:
(1) Provide comprehensive safety training for youth working on YouthBuild construction projects;
(2) Have written, jobsite-specific, safety plans overseen by an on-site supervisor with authority to enforce safety procedures;
(3) Provide necessary personal protective equipment to youth working on YouthBuild projects; and
(4) Submit required injury incident reports.
§ 672.605
What are the reporting requirements for youth safety?
YouthBuild grantees must ensure that YouthBuild program sites comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA) reporting requirements in 29 CFR part 1904. A YouthBuild grantee is responsible for sending a copy of OSHA's injury incident report form, to U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration within 7 days of any reportable injury suffered by a YouthBuild participant. The injury incident report form is available from OSHA and can be downloaded at
http://www.osha.gov/recordkeeping/
RKforms.html.
Reportable injuries include those that result in death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness.
§ 672.610
What environmental protection laws apply to the YouthBuild program?
YouthBuild Program grantees are required, where applicable, to comply with all environmental protection statutes and regulations.
§ 672.615
What requirements apply to YouthBuild housing?
(a) YouthBuild grantees must ensure that all residential housing units which are constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds must be available solely for:
(1) Sale to homeless individuals and families or low-income families;
(2) Rental by homeless individuals and families or low-income families;
(3) Use as transitional or permanent housing for the purpose of assisting in the movement of homeless individuals and families to independent living; or
(4) Rehabilitation of homes for low-income homeowners.
(b) For rentals of residential units located on the property which are constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds:
(1) The property must maintain at least a 90 percent level of occupancy for low-income families. The income test will be conducted only at the time of entry for each available unit or rehabilitation of occupant-owned home. If the grantee cannot find a qualifying tenant to lease the unit, the unit may be leased to a family whose income is above the income threshold to qualify as a low-income family but below the median income for the area. Leases for tenants with higher incomes will be limited to not more than two years. The leases provided to tenants with higher incomes are not subject to the termination clause that is described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) The property owner must not terminate the tenancy or refuse to renew the lease of a tenant occupying a residential rental housing unit constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds except for serious or repeated violations of the terms and conditions of the lease, for violation of applicable Federal, State or local laws, or for good cause. Any termination or refusal to renew the lease must be preceded by not less than a 30-day written notice to the tenant specifying the grounds for the action. The property owner may waive the written notice requirement for termination in dangerous or egregious situations involving the tenant.
(c) All transitional or permanent housing for homeless individuals or families or low-income families must be safe and sanitary. The housing must meet all applicable State and local housing codes and licensing requirements in the jurisdiction in which the housing is located.
(d) For sales or rentals of residential housing units constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds, YouthBuild grantees must ensure that owners of the property record a restrictive covenant at the time that an occupancy permit is issued against such property which includes the use restrictions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section and incorporates the following definitions at § 672.110: Homeless Individual; Low- Income Housing; and Transitional Housing. The term of the restrictive covenant must be at least 10 years from the time of the issuance of the occupancy permit, unless a time period of more than 10 years has been established by the grantee. Any additional stipulations imposed by a grantee or property owner should be clearly stated in the covenant.
(e) Any conveyance document prepared in the 10-year period of the restrictive covenant must inform the buyer of the property that all residential housing units constructed or rehabilitated using YouthBuild funds are subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
PARTS 673-674 [RESERVED]
Pt. 675

# PART 675—INTRODUCTION TO THE REGULATIONS FOR THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
Sec.
675.100
What are the purposes of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
675.200
What do the regulations for workforce development systems under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act cover?
675.300
What definitions apply to these regulations?

# Authority:
Secs. 2, 3, 189, 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56368, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 675.100
What are the purposes of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
The purposes of title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) include:
(a) Increasing access to, and opportunities for individuals to receive, the employment, education, training, and support services necessary to succeed in the labor market, with a particular focus on those individuals with disabilities or other barriers to employment including out of school youth with the goal of improving their outcomes;
(b) Enhancing the strategic role for States and elected officials, and Local Workforce Development Boards (WDBs) in the public workforce system by increasing flexibility to tailor services to meet employer and worker needs at State, regional, and local levels;
(c) Streamlining service delivery across multiple programs by requiring colocation, coordination, and integration of activities and information to make the system understandable and accessible for individuals, including individuals with disabilities and those with other barriers to employment, and businesses.
(d) Supporting the alignment of the workforce investment, education, and economic development systems in support of a comprehensive, accessible, and high-quality workforce development system at the Federal, State, and local and regional levels;
(e) Improving the quality and labor market relevance of workforce investment, education, and economic development efforts by promoting the use of industry and sector partnerships, career pathways, and regional service delivery strategies in order to both provide America's workers with the skills and credentials that will enable them to secure and advance in employment with family-sustaining wages, and to provide America's employers with the skilled workers the employers need to succeed in a global economy;
(f) Promoting accountability using core indicators of performance measured across all WIOA authorized programs, sanctions, and high quality evaluations to improve the structure and delivery of services through the workforce development system to address and improve the employment and skill needs of workers, job seekers, and employers;
(g) Increasing the prosperity and economic growth of workers, employers, communities, regions, and States; and
(h) Providing workforce development activities through statewide and local workforce development systems to increase employment, retention and earnings of participants and to increase industry-recognized postsecondary credential attainment to improve the quality of the workforce, reduce welfare dependency, increase economic self-sufficiency, meet skill requirements of employers, and enhance productivity and competitiveness of the nation.
§ 675.200
What do the regulations for workforce development systems under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act cover?
(a) The regulations found in parts 675 through 688 of this chapter set forth the regulatory requirements that are applicable to programs operated with funds provided under title I of WIOA. This part describes the purpose of that Act, explains the format of these regulations, and sets forth definitions for terms that apply to each part. Parts 676, 677 and 678 of this chapter contain regulations relating to Unified and
Combined State Plans, performance accountability, and the one-stop delivery system and the roles of one-stop partners, respectively. Part 679 of this chapter contains regulations relating to statewide and local governance of the workforce development system. Part 680 of this chapter sets forth requirements applicable to WIOA title I programs serving adults and dislocated workers. Part 681 of this chapter sets forth requirements applicable to WIOA title I programs serving youth. Part 682 of this chapter contains regulations relating to statewide activities. Part 683 of this chapter sets forth the administrative requirements applicable to programs funded under WIOA title I. Parts 684 and 685 of this chapter contain the particular requirements applicable to programs serving Indians and Native Americans and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers, respectively. Parts 686 and 687 of this chapter describe the particular requirements applicable to the Job Corps and the national dislocated worker grant programs, respectively. Part 688 of this chapter contains the regulations governing the YouthBuild program. In addition, part 603 of this chapter provides the requirements regarding confidentiality and disclosure of State Unemployment Compensation program data under WIOA.
(b) Finally, parts 651 through 658 of this chapter address provisions for the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service, as amended by WIOA title III. Specifically, part 651 of this chapter contains general provisions and definitions of terms used in parts 651 through 658 of this chapter; part 652 of this chapter establishes the State Employment Service and describes its operation and services; part 653 of this chapter describes employment services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers and the role of the State Monitor Advocate; part 654 of this chapter addresses the special responsibilities of the Employment Service regarding housing for farmworkers; and part 658 of this chapter contains the administrative provisions that apply to the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service.
(c) Title 29 CFR part 38 contains the Department's nondiscrimination regulations implementing WIOA sec. 188.
§ 675.300
What definitions apply to these regulations?
In addition to the definitions set forth in WIOA and those set forth in specific parts of this chapter, the following definitions apply to the regulations in parts 675 through 688 of this chapter:
Consultation
means the process by which State and/or local stakeholders convene to discuss changes to the public workforce system and constitutes a robust conversation in which all parties are given an opportunity to share their thoughts and opinions.
Contract
means a legal instrument by which a non-Federal entity purchases property or services needed to carry out the project or program under a Federal award. The term as used in this part does not include a legal instrument, even if the non-Federal entity considers it a contract, when the substance of the transaction meets the definition of a Federal award or subaward as defined in this section.
Contractor
means an entity that receives a contract as defined in this section.
Cooperative agreement
means a legal instrument of financial assistance between a Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and a non-Federal entity that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6302-6305:
(1) Is used to enter into a relationship the principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of value from the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity to the non-Federal entity to carry out a public purpose authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. 6101(3)); and not to acquire property or services for the Federal government or pass-through entity's direct benefit or use;
(2) Is distinguished from a grant in that it provides for substantial involvement between the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and the non-Federal entity in carrying out the activity contemplated by the Federal award.
(3) The term does not include:
(i) A cooperative research and development agreement as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a; or
(ii) An agreement that provides only:
(A) Direct United States Government cash assistance to an individual;
(B) A subsidy;
(C) A loan;
(D) A loan guarantee; or
(E) Insurance.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units.
Employment and training activity
means a workforce investment activity that is carried out for an adult or dislocated worker under part 678 of this chapter.
Equal opportunity data
or
EO data
means data on race and ethnicity, age, sex, and disability required by 29 CFR part 38 of the Department of Labor regulations implementing sec. 188 of WIOA, governing nondiscrimination.
Employment and Training Administration
or
ETA
means the Employment and Training Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.
Family
means two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or decree of court, who are living in a single residence, and are included in one or more of the following categories:
(1) A married couple and dependent children;
(2) A parent or guardian and dependent children; or
(3) A married couple.
Federal award
means:
(1) The Federal financial assistance that a non-Federal entity receives directly from a Federal awarding agency or indirectly from a pass-through entity, as described in 2 CFR 200.101 (Applicability);
(2) The cost-reimbursement contract under the Federal Acquisition Regulations that a non-Federal entity receives directly from a Federal awarding agency or indirectly from a pass-through entity, as described in 2 CFR 200.101 (Applicability); and
(3) The instrument setting forth the terms and conditions. The instrument is the grant agreement, cooperative agreement, other agreement for assistance covered in paragraph (b) of 2 CFR 200.40 (Federal financial assistance), or the cost-reimbursement contract awarded under the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
(4) Federal award does not include other contracts that a Federal agency uses to buy goods or services from a contractor or a contract to operate Federal government owned, contractor operated facilities (GOCOs).
Federal financial assistance
means:
(1) For grants and cooperative agreements, assistance in the form of:
(i) Grants;
(ii) Cooperative agreements;
(iii) Non-cash contributions or donations of property (including donated surplus property);
(iv) Direct appropriations;
(v) Food commodities; and
(vi) Other financial assistance, except assistance listed in paragraph (2) of this definition.
(2) For purposes of the audit requirements at 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, Federal financial assistance includes assistance that non-Federal entities receive or administer in the form of:
(i) Loans;
(ii) Loan Guarantees;
(iii) Interest subsidies; and
(iv) Insurance.
(3) Federal financial assistance does not include amounts received as reimbursement for services rendered to individuals as described in 2 CFR 200.502, which outlines the basis for determining Federal awards expended.
Grant
or
grant agreement
means a legal instrument of financial assistance between a Federal awarding agency and a non-Federal entity that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6302, 6304:
(1) Is used to enter into a relationship the principal purpose of which is to transfer anything of value from the Federal awarding agency to carry out a public purpose authorized by a law of the United States (see 31 U.S.C. 6101(3)); and not to acquire property or services for the Federal awarding agency's direct benefit or use;
(2) Is distinguished from a cooperative agreement in that it does not provide for substantial involvement between the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and the non-Federal entity in carrying out the activity contemplated by the Federal award.
(3) Grant agreement does not include an agreement that provides only:
(i) Direct United States Government cash assistance to an individual;
(ii) A subsidy;
(iii) A loan;
(iv) A loan guarantee; or
(v) Insurance.
Grantee
means the direct recipient of grant funds from the Department of Labor under a grant or grant agreement. A grantee also may be referred to as a recipient.
Individual with a disability
means an individual with any disability as defined in sec. 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102). For purposes of WIOA sec. 188, this term is defined at 29 CFR 38.4.
Labor Federation
means an alliance of two or more organized labor unions for the purpose of mutual support and action.
Literacy
means an individual's ability to read, write, and speak in English, and to compute, and solve problems, at levels of proficiency necessary to function on the job, in the family of the individual, and in society.
Local WDB
means a Local Workforce Development Board (WDB) established under WIOA sec. 107, to set policy for the local workforce development system.
Non-Federal entity,
as defined in 2 CFR 2900.2, means a State, local government, Indian tribe, institution of higher education (IHE), for-profit entity, foreign public entity, foreign organization or nonprofit organization that carries out a Federal award as a recipient or subrecipient.
Obligations
when used in connection with a non-Federal entity's utilization of funds under a Federal award, means orders placed for property and services, contracts and subawards made, and similar transactions during a given period that require payment by the non- Federal entity during the same or a future period.
Outlying area
means:
(1) The United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and
(2) The Republic of Palau, except during a period that the Secretaries determine both that a Compact of Free Association is in effect and that the Compact contains provisions for training and education assistance prohibiting the assistance provided under WIOA.
Pass-through entity
means a non-Federal entity that provides a subaward to a subrecipient to carry out part of a Federal program.
Recipient
means a non-Federal entity that receives a Federal award directly from a Federal awarding agency to carry out an activity under a Federal program. The term recipient does not include subrecipients.
Register
means the process for collecting information, including identifying information, to determine an individual's eligibility for services under WIOA title I. Individuals may be registered in a variety ways, as described in § 680.110 of this chapter.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor, or their designee.
Secretaries
means the Secretaries of the U.S. Department Labor and the U.S. Department of Education, or their designees.
Self-certification
means an individual's signed attestation that the information they submit to demonstrate eligibility for a program under title I of WIOA is true and accurate.
State
means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The term “State” does not include outlying areas.
State WDB
means a State Workforce Development Board (WDB) established under WIOA sec. 101.
Subgrant
or
subaward
means an award provided by a pass-through entity to a subrecipient for the subrecipient to carry out part of a Federal award received by the pass-through entity. It does not include payments to a contractor or payments to an individual that is a beneficiary of a Federal program. A subaward may be provided through any form of legal agreement, including an agreement that the pass-through entity considers a contract.
Subrecipient
means a non-Federal entity that receives a subaward from a pass-through entity to carry out part of a Federal program, but does not include an individual that is a beneficiary of such program. A subrecipient also may be a recipient of other Federal awards directly from a Federal awarding agency.
Unliquidated obligations
means, for financial reports prepared on a cash
basis, obligations incurred by the non-Federal entity that have not been paid (liquidated). For reports prepared on an accrual expenditure basis, these are obligations incurred by the non-Federal entity for which an expenditure has not been recorded.
Unobligated balance
means the amount of funds under a Federal award that the non-Federal entity has not obligated. The amount is computed by subtracting the cumulative amount of the non-Federal entity's unliquidated obligations and expenditures of funds under the Federal award from the cumulative amount of the funds that the Federal awarding agency or pass- through entity authorized the non- Federal entity to obligate.
Wagner-Peyser Act
means the Act of June 6, 1933, as amended, codified at 29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
WIA regulations
mean the regulations in parts 660 through 672 of this chapter, the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations in part 652, subpart C, of this chapter, and the regulations implementing WIA sec. 188 in 29 CFR part 37.
WIOA regulations
mean the regulations in parts 675 through 687 of this chapter, the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations in part 652, subpart C, of this chapter, and the regulations implementing WIA sec. 188 in 29 CFR part 38.
Workforce investment activities
mean the array of activities permitted under title I of WIOA, which include employment and training activities for adults and dislocated workers, as described in WIOA sec. 134, and youth activities, as described in WIOA sec. 129.
Youth workforce investment activity
means a workforce investment activity that is carried out for eligible youth under part 679 of this chapter.
Pt. 676

# PART 676—UNIFIED AND COMBINED STATE PLANS UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
Sec.
676.100
What are the purposes of the Unified and Combined State Plans?
676.105
What are the general requirements for the Unified State Plan?
676.110
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I?
676.115
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act program authorized under Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title II?
676.120
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title III?
676.125
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the State Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title IV?
676.130
What is the development, submission, and approval process of the Unified State Plan?
676.135
What are the requirements for modification of the Unified State Plan?
676.140
What are the general requirements for submitting a Combined State Plan?
676.143
What is the development, submission, and approval process of the Combined State Plan?
676.145
What are the requirements for modifications of the Combined State Plan?

# Authority:
Secs. 102, 103, and 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 55597, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 676.100
What are the purposes of the Unified and Combined State Plans?
(a) The Unified and Combined State Plans provide the framework for States to outline a strategic vision of, and goals for, how their workforce development systems will achieve the purposes of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA).
(b) The Unified and Combined State Plans serve as 4-year action plans to develop, align, and integrate the State's systems and provide a platform to achieve the State's vision and strategic and operational goals. A Unified or Combined State Plan is intended to:
(1) Align, in strategic coordination, the six core programs required in the Unified State Plan pursuant to § 676.105(b), and additional Combined State Plan partner programs that may be part of the Combined State Plan pursuant to § 676.140;
(2) Direct investments in economic, education, and workforce training programs to focus on providing relevant education and training to ensure that individuals, including youth and individuals with barriers to employment, have the skills to compete in the job market and that employers have a ready supply of skilled workers;
(3) Apply strategies for job-driven training consistently across Federal programs; and
(4) Enable economic, education, and workforce partners to build a skilled workforce through innovation in, and alignment of, employment, training, and education programs.
§ 676.105
What are the general requirements for the Unified State Plan?
(a) The Unified State Plan must be submitted in accordance with § 676.130 and WIOA sec. 102(c), as explained in joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(b) The Governor of each State must submit, at a minimum, in accordance with § 676.130, a Unified State Plan to the Secretary of Labor to be eligible to receive funding for the workforce development system's six core programs:
(1) The adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under subtitle B of title I of WIOA and administered by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL);
(2) The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program authorized under title II of WIOA and administered by the U.S. Department of Education (ED);
(3) The Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act of 1933, as amended by WIOA title III and administered by DOL; and
(4) The Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by title IV of WIOA and administered by ED.
(c) The Unified State Plan must outline the State's 4-year strategy for the core programs described in paragraph (b) of this section and meet the requirements of sec. 102(b) of WIOA, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(d) The Unified State Plan must include strategic and operational planning elements to facilitate the development of an aligned, coordinated, and comprehensive workforce development system. The Unified State Plan must include:
(1) Strategic planning elements that describe the State's strategic vision and goals for preparing an educated and skilled workforce under sec. 102(b)(1) of WIOA. The strategic planning elements must be informed by and include an analysis of the State's economic conditions and employer and workforce needs, including education and skill needs.
(2) Strategies for aligning the core programs and Combined State Plan partner programs as described in § 676.140(d), as well as other resources available to the State, to achieve the strategic vision and goals in accordance with sec. 102(b)(1)(E) of WIOA.
(3) Operational planning elements in accordance with sec. 102(b)(2) of WIOA that support the strategies for aligning the core programs and other resources available to the State to achieve the State's vision and goals and a description of how the State Workforce Development Board (WDB) will implement its functions, in accordance with sec. 101(d) of WIOA. Operational planning elements must include:
(i) A description of how the State strategy will be implemented by each core program's lead State agency;
(ii) State operating systems, including data systems, and policies that will support the implementation of the State's strategy identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section;
(iii) Program-specific requirements for the core programs required by WIOA sec. 102(b)(2)(D);
(iv) Assurances required by sec. 102(b)(2)(E) of WIOA, including an assurance that the lead State agencies responsible for the administration of the core programs reviewed and commented on the appropriate operational planning of the Unified State Plan and approved the elements as serving the needs of the population served by such programs, and other assurances deemed necessary by the Secretaries of Labor and Education under sec. 102(b)(2)(E)(x) of WIOA;
(v) A description of joint planning and coordination across core programs, required one-stop partner programs, and other programs and activities in the Unified State Plan; and
(vi) Any additional operational planning requirements imposed by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education under sec. 102(b)(2)(C)(viii) of WIOA.
(e) All of the requirements in this part that apply to States also apply to outlying areas.
§ 676.110
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I?
The program-specific requirements for the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs that must be included in the Unified State Plan are described in sec. 102(b)(2)(D) of WIOA. Additional planning requirements may be explained in joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
§ 676.115
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act program authorized under Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title II?
The program-specific requirements for the AEFLA program in title II that must be included in the Unified State Plan are described in secs. 102(b)(2)(C) and 102(b)(2)(D)(ii) of WIOA.
(a) With regard to the description required in sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(ii)(I) of WIOA pertaining to content standards, the Unified State Plan must describe how the eligible agency will, by July 1, 2016, align its content standards for adult education with State-adopted challenging academic content standards under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended.
(b) With regard to the description required in sec. 102(b)(2)(C)(iv) of WIOA pertaining to the methods and factors the State will use to distribute funds under the core programs, for title II of WIOA, the Unified State Plan must include—
(1) How the eligible agency will award multi-year grants on a competitive basis to eligible providers in the State; and
(2) How the eligible agency will provide direct and equitable access to funds using the same grant or contract announcement and application procedure.
§ 676.120
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title III?
The Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act of 1933, as amended by WIOA title III, is subject to requirements in sec. 102(b) of WIOA, including any additional requirements imposed by the Secretary of Labor under secs. 102(b)(2)(C)(viii) and 102(b)(2)(D)(iv) of WIOA, as explained in joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
§ 676.125
What are the program-specific requirements in the Unified State Plan for the State Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title IV?
The program specific-requirements for the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan are set forth in sec. 101(a) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. All submission requirements for the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan are in addition to the jointly developed strategic and operational content requirements prescribed by sec. 102(b) of WIOA.
§ 676.130
What is the development, submission, and approval process of the Unified State Plan?
(a) The Unified State Plan described in § 676.105 must be submitted in accordance with WIOA sec. 102(c), as explained in joint planning guidelines issued jointly by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(b) A State must submit its Unified State Plan to the Secretary of Labor pursuant to a process identified by the Secretary.
(1) The initial Unified State Plan must be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the commencement of the second full program year of WIOA.
(2) Subsequent Unified State Plans must be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the end of the 4-year period covered by a preceding Unified State Plan.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, “program year” means July 1 through June 30 of any year.
(c) The Unified State Plan must be developed with the assistance of the State WDB, as required by § 679.130(a) of this chapter and WIOA sec. 101(d), and must be developed in coordination with administrators with optimum policy-making authority for the core programs and required one-stop partners.
(d) The State must provide an opportunity for public comment on and input into the development of the Unified State Plan prior to its submission.
(1) The opportunity for public comment must include an opportunity for comment by representatives of Local WDBs and chief elected officials, businesses, representatives of labor organizations, community-based organizations, adult education providers, institutions of higher education, other stakeholders with an interest in the services provided by the six core programs, and the general public, including individuals with disabilities.
(2) Consistent with the “Sunshine Provision” of WIOA in sec. 101(g), the State WDB must make information regarding the Unified State Plan available to the public through electronic means and regularly occurring open meetings in accordance with State law. The Unified State Plan must describe the State's process and timeline for ensuring a meaningful opportunity for public comment.
(e) Upon receipt of the Unified State Plan from the State, the Secretary of Labor will ensure that the entire Unified State Plan is submitted to the Secretary of Education pursuant to a process developed by the Secretaries.
(f) The Unified State Plan is subject to the approval of both the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education.
(g) Before the Secretaries of Labor and Education approve the Unified State Plan, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified State Plan described in WIOA sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(iii) must be approved by the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration.
(h) The Secretaries of Labor and Education will review and approve the Unified State Plan within 90 days of receipt by the Secretary of Labor, unless the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education determines in writing within that period that:
(1) The plan is inconsistent with a core program's requirements;
(2) The Unified State Plan is inconsistent with any requirement of sec. 102 of WIOA; or
(3) The plan is incomplete or otherwise insufficient to determine whether it is consistent with a core program's requirements or other requirements of WIOA.
(i) If neither the Secretary of Labor nor the Secretary of Education makes the written determination described in paragraph (h) of this section within 90 days of the receipt by the Secretaries, the Unified State Plan will be considered approved.
§ 676.135
What are the requirements for modification of the Unified State Plan?
(a) In addition to the required modification review set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, a Governor may submit a modification of its Unified State Plan at any time during the 4-year period of the plan.
(b) Modifications are required, at a minimum:
(1) At the end of the first 2-year period of any 4-year State Plan, wherein the State WDB must review the Unified State Plan, and the Governor must submit modifications to the plan to reflect changes in labor market and economic conditions or other factors affecting the implementation of the Unified State Plan;
(2) When changes in Federal or State law or policy substantially affect the strategies, goals, and priorities upon which the Unified State Plan is based;
(3) When there are changes in the statewide vision, strategies, policies, State negotiated levels of performance
as described in § 677.170(b) of this chapter, the methodology used to determine local allocation of funds, reorganizations that change the working relationship with system employees, changes in organizational responsibilities, changes to the membership structure of the State WDB or alternative entity, and similar substantial changes to the State's workforce development system.
(c) Modifications to the Unified State Plan are subject to the same public review and comment requirements in § 676.130(d) that apply to the development of the original Unified State Plan.
(d) Unified State Plan modifications must be approved by the Secretaries of Labor and Education, based on the approval standards applicable to the original Unified State Plan under § 676.130. This approval must come after the approval of the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration for modification of any portion of the plan described in sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(iii) of WIOA.
§ 676.140
What are the general requirements for submitting a Combined State Plan?
(a) A State may choose to develop and submit a 4-year Combined State Plan in lieu of the Unified State Plan described in §§ 676.105 through 676.125.
(b) A State that submits a Combined State Plan covering an activity or program described in paragraph (d) of this section that is, in accordance with WIOA sec. 103(c), approved or deemed complete under the law relating to the program will not be required to submit any other plan or application in order to receive Federal funds to carry out the core programs or the program or activities described under paragraph (d) of this section that are covered by the Combined State Plan.
(c) If a State develops a Combined State Plan, it must be submitted in accordance with the process described in § 676.143.
(d) If a State chooses to submit a Combined State Plan, the plan must include the six core programs and one or more of the Combined State Plan partner programs and activities described in sec. 103(a)(2) of WIOA. The Combined State Plan partner programs and activities that may be included in the Combined State Plan are:
(1) Career and technical education programs authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
);
(2) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families or TANF, authorized under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
);
(3) Employment and training programs authorized under sec. 6(d)(4) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4));
(4) Work programs authorized under sec. 6(o) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2015(o));
(5) Trade adjustment assistance activities under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271
et seq.
);
(6) Services for veterans authorized under chapter 41 of title 38 United States Code;
(7) Programs authorized under State unemployment compensation laws (in accordance with applicable Federal law);
(8) Senior Community Service Employment Programs under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056
et seq.
);
(9) Employment and training activities carried out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD);
(10) Employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.
); and
(11) Reintegration of offenders programs authorized under sec. 212 of the Second Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17532).
(e) A Combined State Plan must contain:
(1) For the core programs, the information required by sec. 102(b) of WIOA and §§ 676.105 through 676.125, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries;
(2) For the Combined State Plan partner programs and activities, except as described in paragraph (h) of this section, the information required by the law authorizing and governing that
program to be submitted to the appropriate Secretary, any other applicable legal requirements, and any common planning requirements described in sec. 102(b) of WIOA, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries;
(3) A description of the methods used for joint planning and coordination among the core programs, and with the required one-stop partner programs and other programs and activities included in the State Plan; and
(4) An assurance that all of the entities responsible for planning or administering the programs described in the Combined State Plan have had a meaningful opportunity to review and comment on all portions of the plan.
(f) Each Combined State Plan partner program included in the Combined State Plan remains subject to the applicable program-specific requirements of the Federal law and regulations, and any other applicable legal or program requirements, governing the implementation and operation of that program.
(g) For purposes of §§ 676.140 through 676.145 the term “appropriate Secretary” means the head of the Federal agency who exercises either plan or application approval authority for the program or activity under the Federal law authorizing the program or activity or, if there are no planning or application requirements, who exercises administrative authority over the program or activity under that Federal law.
(h) States that include employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) Act (42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.
) under a Combined State Plan would submit all other required elements of a complete CSBG State Plan directly to the Federal agency that administers the program, according to the requirements of Federal law and regulations.
(i) States that submit employment and training activities carried out by HUD under a Combined State Plan would submit any other required planning documents for HUD programs directly to HUD, according to the requirements of Federal law and regulations.
§ 676.143
What is the development, submission, and approval process of the Combined State Plan?
(a) For purposes of § 676.140(a), if a State chooses to develop a Combined State Plan it must submit the Combined State Plan in accordance with the requirements described below and sec. 103 of WIOA, as explained in the joint planning guidelines issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(b) The Combined State Plan must be developed with the assistance of the State WDB, as required by § 679.130(a) of this chapter and WIOA sec. 101(d), and must be developed in coordination with administrators with optimum policy-making authority for the core programs and required one-stop partners.
(c) The State must provide an opportunity for public comment on and input into the development of the Combined State Plan prior to its submission.
(1) The opportunity for public comment for the portions of the Combined State Plan that cover the core programs must include an opportunity for comment by representatives of Local WDBs and chief elected officials, businesses, representatives of labor organizations, community-based organizations, adult education providers, institutions of higher education, other stakeholders with an interest in the services provided by the six core programs, and the general public, including individuals with disabilities.
(2) Consistent with the “Sunshine Provision” of WIOA in sec. 101(g), the State WDB must make information regarding the Combined State Plan available to the public through electronic means and regularly occurring open meetings in accordance with State law. The Combined State Plan must describe the State's process and timeline for ensuring a meaningful opportunity for public comment on the portions of the plan covering core programs.
(3) The portions of the plan that cover the Combined State Plan partner programs are subject to any public comment requirements applicable to those programs.
(d) The State must submit to the Secretaries of Labor and Education and
to the Secretary of the agency with responsibility for approving the program's plan or deeming it complete under the law governing the program, as part of its Combined State Plan, any plan, application, form, or any other similar document that is required as a condition for the approval of Federal funding under the applicable program or activity. Such submission must occur in accordance with a process identified by the relevant Secretaries in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) The Combined State Plan will be approved or disapproved in accordance with the requirements of sec. 103(c) of WIOA.
(1) The portion of the Combined State Plan covering programs administered by the Departments of Labor and Education must be reviewed, and approved or disapproved, by the appropriate Secretary within 90 days beginning on the day the Combined State Plan is received by the appropriate Secretary from the State, consistent with paragraph (f) of this section. Before the Secretaries of Labor and Education approve the Combined State Plan, the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Combined State Plan described in WIOA sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(iii) must be approved by the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration.
(2) If an appropriate Secretary other than the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education has authority to approve or deem complete a portion of the Combined State Plan for a program or activity described in § 676.140(d), that portion of the Combined State Plan must be reviewed, and approved, disapproved, or deemed complete, by the appropriate Secretary within 120 days beginning on the day the Combined State Plan is received by the appropriate Secretary from the State consistent with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) The appropriate Secretaries will review and approve or deem complete the Combined State Plan within 90 or 120 days, as appropriate, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, unless the Secretaries of Labor and Education or appropriate Secretary have determined in writing within that period that:
(1) The Combined State Plan is inconsistent with the requirements of the six core programs or the Federal laws authorizing or applicable to the program or activity involved, including the criteria for approval of a plan or application, or deeming the plan complete, if any, under such law;
(2) The portion of the Combined State Plan describing the six core programs or the program or activity described in paragraph (a) of this section involved does not satisfy the criteria as provided in sec. 102 or 103 of WIOA, as applicable; or
(3) The Combined State Plan is incomplete, or otherwise insufficient to determine whether it is consistent with a core program's requirements, other requirements of WIOA, or the Federal laws authorizing, or applicable to, the program or activity described in § 676.140(d), including the criteria for approval of a plan or application, if any, under such law.
(g) If the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Education, or the appropriate Secretary does not make the written determination described in paragraph (f) of this section within the relevant period of time after submission of the Combined State Plan, that portion of the Combined State Plan over which the Secretary has jurisdiction will be considered approved.
(h) The Secretaries of Labor and Education's written determination of approval or disapproval regarding the portion of the plan for the six core programs may be separate from the written determination of approval, disapproval, or completeness of the program-specific requirements of Combined State Plan partner programs and activities described in § 676.140(d) and included in the Combined State Plan.
(i)
Special rule.
In paragraphs (f)(1) and (3) of this section, the term “criteria for approval of a plan or application,” with respect to a State or a core program or a program under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
), includes a requirement for agreement between the State and the appropriate Secretaries regarding State performance measures or State performance accountability measures, as the
case may be, including levels of performance.
§ 676.145
What are the requirements for modifications of the Combined State Plan?
(a) For the core program portions of the Combined State Plan, modifications are required, at a minimum:
(1) By the end of the first 2-year period of any 4-year State Plan. The State WDB must review the Combined State Plan, and the Governor must submit modifications to the Combined State Plan to reflect changes in labor market and economic conditions or other factors affecting the implementation of the Combined State Plan;
(2) When changes in Federal or State law or policy substantially affect the strategies, goals, and priorities upon which the Combined State Plan is based;
(3) When there are changes in the statewide vision, strategies, policies, State negotiated levels of performance as described in § 677.170(b) of this chapter, the methodology used to determine local allocation of funds, reorganizations that change the working relationship with system employees, changes in organizational responsibilities, changes to the membership structure of the State WDB or alternative entity, and similar substantial changes to the State's workforce development system.
(b) In addition to the required modification review described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a State may submit a modification of its Combined State Plan at any time during the 4-year period of the plan.
(c) For any Combined State Plan partner programs and activities described in § 676.140(d) that are included in a State's Combined State Plan, the State—
(1) May decide if the modification requirements under WIOA sec. 102(c)(3) that apply to the core programs will apply to the Combined State Plan partner programs, as long as consistent with any other modification requirements for the programs, or may comply with the requirements applicable to only the particular program or activity; and
(2) Must submit, in accordance with the procedure described in § 676.143, any modification, amendment, or revision required by the Federal law authorizing, or applicable to, the Combined State Plan partner program or activity.
(i) If the underlying programmatic requirements change (
e.g.,
the authorizing statute is reauthorized) for Federal laws authorizing such programs, a State must either modify its Combined State Plan or submit a separate plan to the appropriate Federal agency in accordance with the new Federal law authorizing the Combined State Plan partner program or activity and other legal requirements applicable to such program or activity.
(ii) If the modification, amendment, or revision affects the administration of only that particular Combined State Plan partner program and has no impact on the Combined State Plan as a whole or the integration and administration of the core and other Combined State Plan partner programs at the State level, modifications must be submitted for approval to only the appropriate Secretary, based on the approval standards applicable to the original Combined State Plan under § 676.143, if the State elects, or in accordance with the procedures and requirements applicable to the particular Combined State Plan partner program.
(3) A State also may amend its Combined State Plan to add a Combined State Plan partner program or activity described in § 676.140(d).
(d) Modifications of the Combined State Plan are subject to the same public review and comment requirements that apply to the development of the original Combined State Plan as described in § 676.143(c) except that, if the modification, amendment, or revision affects the administration of a particular Combined State Plan partner program and has no impact on the Combined State Plan as a whole or the integration and administration of the core and other Combined State Plan partner programs at the State level, a State may comply instead with the procedures and requirements applicable to the particular Combined State Plan partner program.
(e) Modifications for the core program portions of the Combined State Plan must be approved by the Secretaries of Labor and Education, based on the approval standards applicable to the original Combined State Plan under § 676.143. This approval must come after the approval of the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration for modification of any portion of the Combined State Plan described in sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(iii) of WIOA.
Pt. 677

# PART 677—PERFORMANCE ACCOUNTABILITY UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
Sec.
677.150
What definitions apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act performance accountability provisions?

# Subpart A—State Indicators of Performance for Core Programs
677.155
What are the primary indicators of performance under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
677.160
What information is required for State performance reports?
677.165
May a State establish additional indicators of performance?
677.170
How are State levels of performance for primary indicators established?
677.175
What responsibility do States have to use quarterly wage record information for performance accountability?

# Subpart B—Sanctions for State Performance and the Provision of Technical Assistance
677.180
When is a State subject to a financial sanction under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
677.185
When are sanctions applied for a State's failure to submit an annual performance report?
677.190
When are sanctions applied for failure to achieve adjusted levels of performance?
677.195
What should States expect when a sanction is applied to the Governor's Reserve Allotment?
677.200
What other administrative actions will be applied to States' performance requirements?

# Subpart C—Local Performance Accountability for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Title I Programs
677.205
What performance indicators apply to local areas and what information must be included in local area performance reports?
677.210
How are local performance levels established?

# Subpart D—Incentives and Sanctions for Local Performance for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Title I Programs
677.215
Under what circumstances are local areas eligible for State Incentive Grants?
677.220
Under what circumstances may a corrective action or sanction be applied to local areas for poor performance?
677.225
Under what circumstances may local areas appeal a reorganization plan?

# Subpart E—Eligible Training Provider Performance for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Title I Programs
677.230
What information is required for the eligible training provider performance reports?

# Subpart F—Performance Reporting Administrative Requirements
677.235
What are the reporting requirements for individual records for core Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) title I programs; the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service program, as amended by WIOA title III; and the Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV?
677.240
What are the requirements for data validation of State annual performance reports?

# Authority:
Secs. 116, 189, and 503 of Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56002, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 677.150
What definitions apply to Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act performance accountability provisions?
(a)
Participant.
A reportable individual who has received services other than the services described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, after satisfying all applicable programmatic requirements for the provision of services, such as eligibility determination.
(1) For the Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) program, a participant is a reportable individual who has an approved and signed Individualized Plan for Employment (IPE) and has begun to receive services.
(2) For the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) title I youth program, a participant is a reportable individual who has satisfied all applicable program requirements for the provision of services, including eligibility determination, an objective assessment, and development of an individual service strategy, and received 1 of the 14 WIOA youth program elements identified in sec. 129(c)(2) of WIOA.
(3) The following individuals are not participants:
(i) Individuals in an Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program who have not completed at least 12 contact hours;
(ii) Individuals who only use the self-service system.
(A) Subject to paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, self-service occurs when individuals independently access any workforce development system program's information and activities in either a physical location, such as a one-stop center resource room or partner agency, or remotely via the use of electronic technologies.
(B) Self-service does not uniformly apply to all virtually accessed services. For example, virtually accessed services that provide a level of support beyond independent job or information seeking on the part of an individual would not qualify as self-service.
(iii) Individuals who receive information-only services or activities, which provide readily available information that does not require an assessment by a staff member of the individual's skills, education, or career objectives.
(4) Programs must include participants in their performance calculations.
(b)
Reportable individual.
An individual who has taken action that demonstrates an intent to use program services and who meets specific reporting criteria of the program, including:
(1) Individuals who provide identifying information;
(2) Individuals who only use the self-service system; or
(3) Individuals who only receive information-only services or activities.
(c)
Exit.
As defined for the purpose of performance calculations, exit is the point after which a participant who has received services through any program meets the following criteria:
(1) For the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I, the AEFLA program authorized under WIOA title II, and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, exit date is the last date of service.
(i) The last day of service cannot be determined until at least 90 days have elapsed since the participant last received services; services do not include self-service, information-only services or activities, or follow-up services. This also requires that there are no plans to provide the participant with future services.
(ii) [Reserved].
(2)(i) For the VR program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV (VR program):
(A) The participant's record of service is closed in accordance with 34 CFR 361.56 because the participant has achieved an employment outcome; or
(B) The participant's service record is closed because the individual has not achieved an employment outcome or the individual has been determined ineligible after receiving services in accordance with 34 CFR 361.43.
(ii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a participant will not be considered as meeting the definition of exit from the VR program if the participant's service record is closed because the participant has achieved a supported employment outcome in an integrated setting but not in competitive integrated employment.
(3)(i) A State may implement a common exit policy for all or some of the core programs in WIOA title I and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, and any additional required partner program(s) listed in sec. 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA that
is under the authority of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL).
(ii) If a State chooses to implement a common exit policy, the policy must require that a participant is exited only when all of the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are met for the WIOA title I core programs and the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III, as well as any additional required partner programs listed in sec. 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA under the authority of DOL to which the common exit policy applies in which the participant is enrolled.
(d)
State.
For purposes of this part, other than in regard to sanctions or the statistical adjustment model, all references to “State” include the outlying areas of American Samoa, Guam, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and, as applicable, the Republic of Palau.

# Subpart A—State Indicators of Performance for Core Programs
§ 677.155
What are the primary indicators of performance under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) All States submitting either a Unified or Combined State Plan under §§ 676.130 and 676.143 of this chapter, must propose expected levels of performance for each of the primary indicators of performance for the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I; the AEFLA program authorized under WIOA title II; the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III; and the VR program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV.
(1)
Primary indicators of performance.
The six primary indicators of performance for the adult and dislocated worker programs, the AEFLA program, and the VR program are:
(i) The percentage of participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(ii) The percentage of participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(iii) Median earnings of participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(iv)(A) The percentage of those participants enrolled in an education or training program (excluding those in on-the-job training [OJT] and customized training) who attained a recognized postsecondary credential or a secondary school diploma, or its recognized equivalent, during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program.
(B) A participant who has attained a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent is included in the percentage of participants who have attained a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent only if the participant also is employed or is enrolled in an education or training program leading to a recognized postsecondary credential within 1 year after exit from the program;
(v) The percentage of participants who, during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains, defined as documented academic, technical, occupational, or other forms of progress, towards such a credential or employment. Depending upon the type of education or training program, documented progress is defined as one of the following:
(A) Documented achievement of at least one educational functioning level of a participant who is receiving instruction below the postsecondary education level;
(B) Documented attainment of a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent;
(C) Secondary or postsecondary transcript or report card for a sufficient number of credit hours that shows a participant is meeting the State unit's academic standards;
(D) Satisfactory or better progress report, towards established milestones, such as completion of OJT or completion of 1 year of an apprenticeship program or similar milestones, from an
employer or training provider who is providing training; or
(E) Successful passage of an exam that is required for a particular occupation or progress in attaining technical or occupational skills as evidenced by trade-related benchmarks such as knowledge-based exams.
(vi) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit. For the six core programs, this indicator is a statewide indicator reported by one core program on behalf of all six core programs in the State, as described in guidance.
(2)
Participants.
For purposes of the primary indicators of performance in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, “participant” will have the meaning given to it in § 677.150(a), except that—
(i) For purposes of determining program performance levels under indicators set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) and (vi) of this section, a “participant” does not include a participant who received services under sec. 225 of WIOA and exits such program while still in a correctional institution as defined in sec. 225(e)(1) of WIOA; and
(ii) The Secretaries of Labor and Education may, as needed and consistent with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA), make further determinations as to the participants to be included in calculating program performance levels for purposes of any of the performance indicators set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) The primary indicators in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) and (vi) of this section apply to the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III.
(c) For the youth program authorized under WIOA title I, the primary indicators are:
(1) Percentage of participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(2) Percentage of participants in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(3) Median earnings of participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(4) The percentage of those participants enrolled in an education or training program (excluding those in OJT and customized training) who obtained a recognized postsecondary credential or a secondary school diploma, or its recognized equivalent, during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program, except that a participant who has attained a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent is included as having attained a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent only if the participant is also employed or is enrolled in an education or training program leading to a recognized postsecondary credential within 1 year from program exit;
(5) The percentage of participants who during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains, defined as documented academic, technical, occupational or other forms of progress towards such a credential or employment. Depending upon the type of education or training program, documented progress is defined as one of the following:
(i) Documented achievement of at least one educational functioning level of a participant who is receiving instruction below the postsecondary education level;
(ii) Documented attainment of a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent;
(iii) Secondary or postsecondary transcript or report card for a sufficient number of credit hours that shows a participant is achieving the State unit's academic standards;
(iv) Satisfactory or better progress report, towards established milestones, such as completion of OJT or completion of 1 year of an apprenticeship program or similar milestones, from an employer or training provider who is providing training; or
(v) Successful passage of an exam that is required for a particular occupation or progress in attaining technical or occupational skills as evidenced by trade-related benchmarks such as knowledge-based exams.
(6) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit. For the six core programs, this indicator is a statewide indicator reported by one core program on behalf of all six core programs in the State, as described in guidance.
[81 FR 56002, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 13847, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 677.160
What information is required for State performance reports?
(a) The State performance report required by sec. 116(d)(2) of WIOA must be submitted annually using a template the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate, and must provide, at a minimum, information on the actual performance levels achieved consistent with § 677.175 with respect to:
(1) The total number of participants served, and the total number of participants who exited each of the core programs identified in sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(ii) of WIOA, including disaggregated counts of those who participated in and exited a core program, by:
(i) Individuals with barriers to employment as defined in WIOA sec. 3(24); and
(ii) Co-enrollment in any of the programs in WIOA sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(ii).
(2) Information on the performance levels achieved for the primary indicators of performance for all of the core programs identified in § 677.155 including disaggregated levels for:
(i) Individuals with barriers to employment as defined in WIOA sec. 3(24);
(ii) Age;
(iii) Sex; and
(iv) Race and ethnicity.
(3) The total number of participants who received career services and the total number of participants who exited from career services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, and the total number of participants who received training services and the total number of participants who exited from training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;
(4) Information on the performance levels achieved for the primary indicators of performance consistent with § 677.155 for career services and training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;
(5) The percentage of participants in a program who attained unsubsidized employment related to the training received (often referred to as training-related employment) through WIOA title I, subtitle B programs;
(6) The amount of funds spent on career services and the amount of funds spent on training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;
(7) The average cost per participant for those participants who received career services and training services, respectively, during the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years, as applicable to the program;
(8) The percentage of a State's annual allotment under WIOA sec. 132(b) that the State spent on administrative costs; and
(9) Information that facilitates comparisons of programs with programs in other States.
(10) For WIOA title I programs, a State performance narrative, which, for States in which a local area is implementing a pay-for-performance contracting strategy, at a minimum provides:
(i) A description of pay-for-performance contract strategies being used for programs;
(ii) The performance of service providers entering into contracts for such strategies, measured against the levels of performance specified in the contracts for such strategies; and
(iii) An evaluation of the design of the programs and performance strategies and, when available, the satisfaction of employers and participants who received services under such strategies.
(b) The disaggregation of data for the State performance report must be done
in compliance with WIOA sec. 116(d)(6)(C).
(c) The State performance reports must include a mechanism of electronic access to the State's local area and eligible training provider (ETP) performance reports.
(d) States must comply with these requirements from sec. 116 of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Departments of Labor and Education, which may include information on reportable individuals as determined by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
§ 677.165
May a State establish additional indicators of performance?
States may identify additional indicators of performance for the six core programs. If a State does so, these indicators must be included in the Unified or Combined State Plan.
§ 677.170
How are State levels of performance for primary indicators established?
(a) A State must submit in the State Plan expected levels of performance on the primary indicators of performance for each core program as required by sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(iii) of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.
(1) The initial State Plan submitted under WIOA must contain expected levels of performance for the first 2 years of the State Plan.
(2) States must submit expected levels of performance for the third and fourth year of the State Plan before the third program year consistent with §§ 676.135 and 676.145 of this chapter.
(b) States must reach agreement on levels of performance with the Secretaries of Labor and Education for each indicator for each core program. These are the negotiated levels of performance. The negotiated levels must be based on the following factors:
(1) How the negotiated levels of performance compare with State levels of performance established for other States;
(2) The application of an objective statistical model established by the Secretaries of Labor and Education, subject to paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) How the negotiated levels promote continuous improvement in performance based on the primary indicators and ensure optimal return on investment of Federal funds; and
(4) The extent to which the negotiated levels assist the State in meeting the performance goals established by the Secretaries of Labor and Education for the core programs in accordance with the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, as amended.
(c) An objective statistical adjustment model will be developed and disseminated by the Secretaries of Labor and Education. The model will be based on:
(1) Differences among States in actual economic conditions, including but not limited to unemployment rates and job losses or gains in particular industries; and
(2) The characteristics of participants, including but not limited to:
(i) Indicators of poor work history;
(ii) Lack of work experience;
(iii) Lack of educational or occupational skills attainment;
(iv) Dislocation from high-wage and high-benefit employment;
(v) Low levels of literacy;
(vi) Low levels of English proficiency;
(vii) Disability status;
(viii) Homelessness;
(ix) Ex-offender status; and
(x) Welfare dependency.
(d) The objective statistical adjustment model developed under paragraph (c) of this section will be:
(1) Applied to the core programs' primary indicators upon availability of data which are necessary to populate the model and apply the model to the local core programs;
(2) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, used before the beginning of a program year in order to reach agreement on State negotiated levels for the upcoming program year; and
(3) Subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, used to revise negotiated levels at the end of a program year based on actual economic conditions and characteristics of participants served, consistent with sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(vii) of WIOA.
(e) The negotiated levels revised at the end of the program year, based on the statistical adjustment model, are the adjusted levels of performance.
(f) States must comply with these requirements from sec. 116 of WIOA as explained in joint guidance issued by the Departments of Labor and Education.
§ 677.175
What responsibility do States have to use quarterly wage record information for performance accountability?
(a)(1) States must, consistent with State laws, use quarterly wage record information in measuring a State's performance on the primary indicators of performance outlined in § 677.155 and a local area's performance on the primary indicators of performance identified in § 677.205.
(2) The use of social security numbers from participants and such other information as is necessary to measure the progress of those participants through quarterly wage record information is authorized.
(3) To the extent that quarterly wage records are not available for a participant, States may use other information as is necessary to measure the progress of those participants through methods other than quarterly wage record information.
(b) “Quarterly wage record information” means intrastate and interstate wages paid to an individual, the social security number (or numbers, if more than one) of the individual, and the name, address, State, and the Federal employer identification number of the employer paying the wages to the individual.
(c) The Governor may designate a State agency (or appropriate State entity) to assist in carrying out the performance reporting requirements for WIOA core programs and ETPs. The Governor or such agency (or appropriate State entity) is responsible for:
(1) Facilitating data matches;
(2) Data quality reliability; and
(3) Protection against disaggregation that would violate applicable privacy standards.

# Subpart B—Sanctions for State Performance and the Provision of Technical Assistance
§ 677.180
When is a State subject to a financial sanction under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
A State will be subject to financial sanction under WIOA sec. 116(f) if it fails to:
(a) Submit the State annual performance report required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(2); or
(b) Meet adjusted levels of performance for the primary indicators of performance in accordance with sec. 116(f) of WIOA.
§ 677.185
When are sanctions applied for a State's failure to submit an annual performance report?
(a) Sanctions will be applied when a State fails to submit the State annual performance report required under sec. 116(d)(2) of WIOA. A State fails to report if the State either:
(1) Does not submit a State annual performance report by the date for timely submission set in performance reporting guidance; or
(2) Submits a State annual performance report by the date for timely submission, but the report is incomplete.
(b) Sanctions will not be applied if the reporting failure is due to exceptional circumstances outside of the State's control. Exceptional circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Natural disasters;
(2) Unexpected personnel transitions; and
(3) Unexpected technology related issues.
(c) In the event that a State may not be able to submit a complete and accurate performance report by the deadline for timely reporting:
(1) The State must notify the Secretary of Labor or Secretary of Education as soon as possible, but no later than 30 days prior to the established deadline for submission, of a potential impact on the State's ability to submit its State annual performance report in order to not be considered failing to report.
(2) In circumstances where unexpected events occur less than 30 days before the established deadline for submission of the State annual performance reports, the Secretaries of Labor and Education will review requests for extending the reporting deadline in accordance with the Departments of Labor and Education's procedures that will be established in guidance.
§ 677.190
When are sanctions applied for failure to achieve adjusted levels of performance?
(a) States' negotiated levels of performance will be adjusted through the application of the statistical adjustment model established under § 677.170 to account for actual economic conditions experienced during a program year and characteristics of participants, annually at the close of each program year.
(b) Any State that fails to meet adjusted levels of performance for the primary indicators of performance outlined in § 677.155 for any year will receive technical assistance, including assistance in the development of a performance improvement plan provided by the Secretary of Labor or Secretary of Education.
(c) Whether a State has failed to meet adjusted levels of performance will be determined using the following criteria:
(1) The overall State program score, which is expressed as the percent achieved, compares the actual results achieved by a core program on the primary indicators of performance, except for the effectiveness in serving employers indicator described in § 677.155(a)(1)(vi), to the adjusted levels of performance for that core program. The average of the percentages achieved of the adjusted level of performance for each of the primary indicators, except for the effectiveness in serving employers indicator described in § 677.155(a)(1)(vi), by a core program will constitute the overall State program score.
(2) However, until all indicators for the core program have at least 2 years of complete data, the overall State program score will be based on a comparison of the actual results achieved to the adjusted level of performance for each of the primary indicators that have at least 2 years of complete data for that program.
(3) The overall State indicator score, which is expressed as the percent achieved, compares the actual results achieved on a primary indicator of performance by all core programs in a State to the adjusted levels of performance for that primary indicator.
(i) The average of the percentages achieved of the adjusted level of performance by all of the core programs on that indicator will constitute the overall State indicator score, except for the effectiveness in serving employers indicator described in § 677.155(a)(1)(vi).
(ii) The overall State indicator score for effectiveness in serving employers, as reported by one core program on behalf of all six core programs in the State, as described in guidance, is a statewide indicator that reflects the performance for all core programs. It is calculated as the statewide percentage achieved of the statewide adjusted level of performance.
(4) However, until all indicators for the State have at least 2 years of complete data, the overall State indicator score will be based on a comparison of the actual results achieved to the adjusted level of performance for each of the primary indicators that have at least 2 years of complete data in a State.
(5) The individual indicator score, which is expressed as the percent achieved, compares the actual results achieved by each core program on each of the individual primary indicators to the adjusted levels of performance for each of the program's primary indicators of performance, except for the effectiveness in serving employers indicator described in § 677.155(a)(1)(vi).
(d) A performance failure occurs when:
(1) Any overall State program score or overall State indicator score falls below 90 percent for the program year; or
(2) Any of the States' individual indicator scores fall below 50 percent for the program year.
(e) Sanctions based on performance failure will be applied to States if, for
2 consecutive years, the State fails to meet:
(1) 90 percent of the overall State program score for the same core program;
(2) 90 percent of the overall State indicator score for the same primary indicator; or
(3) 50 percent of the same indicator score for the same program.
[81 FR 56002, Aug. 19, 2016 as amended at 89 FR 13848, Feb. 23, 2024]
§ 677.195
What should States expect when a sanction is applied to the Governor's Reserve Allotment?
(a) The Secretaries of Labor and Education will reduce the Governor's Reserve Allotment by five percent of the maximum available amount for the immediately succeeding program year if:
(1) The State fails to submit the State annual performance reports as required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(2), as defined in § 677.185;
(2) The State fails to meet State adjusted levels of performance for the same primary performance indicator(s) under either § 677.190(d)(1) for the second consecutive year as defined in § 677.190; or
(3) The State's score on the same indicator for the same program falls below 50 percent under § 677.190(d)(2) for the second consecutive year as defined in § 677.190.
(b) If the State fails under paragraphs (a)(1) and either (a)(2) or (3) of this section in the same program year, the Secretaries of Labor and Education will reduce the Governor's Reserve Allotment by 10 percent of the maximum available amount for the immediately succeeding program year.
(c) If a State's Governor's Reserve Allotment is reduced:
(1) The reduced amount will not be returned to the State in the event that the State later improves performance or submits its annual performance report; and
(2) The Governor's Reserve will continue to be set at the reduced level in each subsequent year until the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education, depending on which program is impacted, determines that the State met the State adjusted levels of performance for the applicable primary performance indicators and has submitted all of the required performance reports.
(d) A State may request review of a sanction the Secretary of Labor imposes in accordance with the provisions of § 683.800 of this chapter.
§ 677.200
What other administrative actions will be applied to States' performance requirements?
(a) In addition to sanctions for failure to report or failure to meet adjusted levels of performance, States will be subject to administrative actions in the case of poor performance.
(b) States' performance achievement on the individual primary indicators will be assessed in addition to the overall State program score and overall State indicator score. Based on this assessment, as clarified and explained in guidance, for performance on any individual primary indicator, the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education will require the State to establish a performance risk plan to address continuous improvement on the individual primary indicator.

# Subpart C—Local Performance Accountability for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Title I Programs
§ 677.205
What performance indicators apply to local areas and what information must be included in local area performance reports?
(a) Each local area in a State under WIOA title I is subject to the same primary indicators of performance for the core programs for WIOA title I under § 677.155(a)(1) and (c) that apply to the State.
(b) In addition to the indicators described in paragraph (a) of this section, under § 677.165, the Governor may apply additional indicators of performance to local areas in the State.
(c) States must annually make local area performance reports available to the public using a template that the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate in guidance, including by electronic means. The State must provide electronic access to the public local area performance report in its annual State performance report.
(d) The local area performance report must include:
(1) The actual results achieved under § 677.155 and the information required under § 677.160(a);
(2) The percentage of a local area's allotment under WIOA secs. 128(b) and 133(b) that the local area spent on administrative costs; and
(3) Other information that facilitates comparisons of programs with programs in other local areas (or planning regions if the local area is part of a planning region).
(e) The disaggregation of data for the local area performance report must be done in compliance with WIOA sec. 116(d)(6)(C).
(f) States must comply with any requirements from sec. 116(d)(3) of WIOA as explained in guidance, including the use of the performance reporting template, issued by DOL.
§ 677.210
How are local performance levels established?
(a) The objective statistical adjustment model required under sec. 116(b)(3)(A)(viii) of WIOA and described in § 677.170(c) must be:
(1) Applied to the core programs' primary indicators upon availability of data which are necessary to populate the model and apply the model to the local core programs;
(2) Used in order to reach agreement on local negotiated levels of performance for the upcoming program year; and
(3) Used to establish adjusted levels of performance at the end of a program year based on actual conditions, consistent with WIOA sec. 116(c)(3).
(b) Until all indicators for the core program in a local area have at least 2 years of complete data, the comparison of the actual results achieved to the adjusted levels of performance for each of the primary indicators only will be applied where there are at least 2 years of complete data for that program.
(c) The Governor, Local Workforce Development Board (WDB), and chief elected official must reach agreement on local negotiated levels of performance based on a negotiations process before the start of a program year with the use of the objective statistical model described in paragraph (a) of this section. The negotiations will include a discussion of circumstances not accounted for in the model and will take into account the extent to which the levels promote continuous improvement. The objective statistical model will be applied at the end of the program year based on actual economic conditions and characteristics of the participants served.
(d) The negotiations process described in paragraph (c) of this section must be developed by the Governor and disseminated to all Local WDBs and chief elected officials.
(e) The Local WDBs may apply performance measures to service providers that differ from the performance indicators that apply to the local area. These performance measures must be established after considering:
(1) The established local negotiated levels;
(2) The services provided by each provider; and
(3) The populations the service providers are intended to serve.

# Subpart D—Incentives and Sanctions for Local Performance for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Title I Programs
§ 677.215
Under what circumstances are local areas eligible for State Incentive Grants?
(a) The Governor is not required to award local incentive funds, but is authorized to provide incentive grants to local areas for performance on the primary indicators of performance consistent with WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(xi).
(b) The Governor may use non-Federal funds to create incentives for the Local WDBs to implement pay-for-performance contract strategies for the delivery of training services described in WIOA sec. 134(c)(3) or activities described in WIOA sec. 129(c)(2) in the local areas served by the Local WDBs. Pay-for-performance contract strategies must be implemented in accordance with part 683, subpart E of this chapter and § 677.160.
§ 677.220
Under what circumstances may a corrective action or sanction be applied to local areas for poor performance?
(a) If a local area fails to meet the adjusted levels of performance agreed to under § 677.210 for the primary indicators of performance in the adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under WIOA title I in any program year, technical assistance must be provided by the Governor or, upon the Governor's request, by the Secretary of Labor.
(1) A State must establish the threshold for failure to meet adjusted levels of performance for a local area before coming to agreement on the negotiated levels of performance for the local area.
(i) A State must establish the adjusted level of performance for a local area, using the statistical adjustment model described in § 677.170(c).
(ii) At least 2 years of complete data on any indicator for any local core program are required in order to establish adjusted levels of performance for a local area.
(2) The technical assistance may include:
(i) Assistance in the development of a performance improvement plan;
(ii) The development of a modified local or regional plan; or
(iii) Other actions designed to assist the local area in improving performance.
(b) If a local area fails to meet the adjusted levels of performance agreed to under § 677.210 for the same primary indicators of performance for the same core program authorized under WIOA title I for a third consecutive program year, the Governor must take corrective actions. The corrective actions must include the development of a reorganization plan under which the Governor:
(1) Requires the appointment and certification of a new Local WDB, consistent with the criteria established under § 679.350 of this chapter;
(2) Prohibits the use of eligible providers and one-stop partners that have been identified as achieving poor levels of performance; or
(3) Takes such other significant actions as the Governor determines are appropriate.
§ 677.225
Under what circumstances may local areas appeal a reorganization plan?
(a) The Local WDB and chief elected official for a local area that is subject to a reorganization plan under WIOA sec. 116(g)(2)(A) may appeal to the Governor to rescind or revise the reorganization plan not later than 30 days after receiving notice of the reorganization plan. The Governor must make a final decision within 30 days after receipt of the appeal.
(b) The Local WDB and chief elected official may appeal the final decision of the Governor to the Secretary of Labor not later than 30 days after receiving the decision from the Governor. Any appeal of the Governor's final decision must be:
(1) Appealed jointly by the Local WDB and chief elected official to the Secretary of Labor under § 683.650 of this chapter; and
(2) Must be submitted by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20210, Attention: ASET. A copy of the appeal must be simultaneously provided to the Governor.
(c) Upon receipt of the joint appeal from the Local WDB and chief elected official, the Secretary of Labor must make a final decision within 30 days. In making this determination the Secretary of Labor may consider any comments submitted by the Governor in response to the appeals.
(d) The decision by the Governor on the appeal becomes effective at the time it is issued and remains effective unless the Secretary of Labor rescinds or revises the reorganization plan under WIOA sec. 116(g)(2)(C).

# Subpart E—Eligible Training Provider Performance for Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Title I Programs
§ 677.230
What information is required for the eligible training provider performance reports?
(a) States are required to make available and publish annually using a template the Departments of Labor and Education will disseminate including through electronic means, the ETP performance reports for ETPs who provide services under sec. 122 of WIOA that are described in §§ 680.400 through 680.530 of this chapter. These reports at a minimum must include, consistent with § 677.175 and with respect to each program of study that is eligible to receive funds under WIOA:
(1) The total number of participants as defined by § 677.150(a) who received training services under the adult and dislocated worker programs authorized under WIOA title I for the most recent year and the 3 preceding program years, including:
(i) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by barriers to employment;
(ii) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, and age;
(iii) The number of participants under the adult and dislocated worker programs disaggregated by the type of training entity for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years;
(2) The total number of participants who exit a program of study or its equivalent, including disaggregate counts by the type of training entity during the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years;
(3) The average cost-per-participant for participants who received training services for the most recent program year and the 3 preceding program years disaggregated by type of training entity;
(4) The total number of individuals exiting from the program of study (or the equivalent) with respect to all individuals engaging in the program of study (or the equivalent); and
(5) The levels of performance achieved for the primary indicators of performance identified in § 677.155(a)(1)(i) through (iv) with respect to all individuals engaging in a program of study (or the equivalent).
(b) Apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act are not required to submit ETP performance information. If a registered apprenticeship program voluntarily submits performance information to a State, the State must include this information in the report.
(c) The State must provide a mechanism of electronic access to the public ETP performance report in its annual State performance report.
(d) States must comply with any requirements from sec. 116(d)(4) of WIOA as explained in guidance issued by DOL.
(e) The Governor may designate one or more State agencies such as a State Education Agency or other State Educational Authority to assist in overseeing ETP performance and facilitating the production and dissemination of ETP performance reports. These agencies may be the same agencies that are designated as responsible for administering the ETP list as provided under § 680.500 of this chapter. The Governor or such agencies, or authorities, is responsible for:
(1) Facilitating data matches between ETP records and unemployment insurance (UI) wage data in order to produce the report;
(2) The creation and dissemination of the reports as described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section;
(3) Coordinating the dissemination of the performance reports with the ETP list and the information required to accompany the list, as provided in § 680.500 of this chapter.

# Subpart F—Performance Reporting Administrative Requirements
§ 677.235
What are the reporting requirements for individual records for core Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) title I programs; the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service program, as amended by WIOA title III; and the Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV?
(a) On a quarterly basis, each State must submit to the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education, as appropriate, individual records that include demographic information, information on services received, and information on resulting outcomes, as appropriate, for each reportable individual in either of the following programs administered by the Secretary of Labor or Secretary of Education: A WIOA title I core program; the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III; or the VR program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV.
(b) For individual records submitted to the Secretary of Labor, those records may be required to be integrated across all programs administered by the Secretary of Labor in one single file.
(c) States must comply with the requirements of sec. 116(d)(2) of WIOA as explained in guidance issued by the Departments of Labor and Education.
§ 677.240
What are the requirements for data validation of State annual performance reports?
(a) States must establish procedures, consistent with guidelines issued by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education, to ensure that they submit complete annual performance reports that contain information that is valid and reliable, as required by WIOA sec. 116(d)(5).
(b) If a State fails to meet standards in paragraph (a) of this section as determined by the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary of Education, the appropriate Secretary will provide technical assistance and may require the State to develop and implement corrective actions, which may require the State to provide training for its subrecipients.
(c) The Secretaries of Labor and Education will provide training and technical assistance to States in order to implement this section. States must comply with the requirements of sec. 116(d)(5) of WIOA as explained in guidance.
Pt. 678

# PART 678—DESCRIPTION OF THE ONE-STOP DELIVERY SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—General Description of the One-Stop Delivery System
Sec.
678.300
What is the one-stop delivery system?
678.305
What is a comprehensive one-stop center and what must be provided there?
678.310
What is an affiliated site and what must be provided there?
678.315
Can a stand-alone Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service office be designated as an affiliated one-stop site?
678.320
Are there any requirements for networks of eligible one-stop partners or specialized centers?

# Subpart B—One-Stop Partners and the Responsibilities of Partners
678.400
Who are the required one-stop partners?
678.405
Is Temporary Assistance for Needy Families a required one-stop partner?
678.410
What other entities may serve as one-stop partners?
678.415
What entity serves as the one-stop partner for a particular program in the local area?
678.420
What are the roles and responsibilities of the required one-stop partners?
678.425
What are the applicable career services that must be provided through the one-stop delivery system by required one-stop partners?
678.430
What are career services?
678.435
What are the business services provided through the one-stop delivery system, and how are they provided?
678.440
When may a fee be charged for the business services in this subpart?

# Subpart C—Memorandum of Understanding for the One-Stop Delivery System
678.500
What is the Memorandum of Understanding for the one-stop delivery system and what must be included in the Memorandum of Understanding?
678.505
Is there a single Memorandum of Understanding for the local area, or must there be different Memoranda of Understanding between the Local Workforce Development Board and each partner?
678.510
How must the Memorandum of Understanding be negotiated?

# Subpart D—One-Stop Operators
678.600
Who may operate one-stop centers?
678.605
How is the one-stop operator selected?
678.610
When is the sole-source selection of one-stop operators appropriate, and how is it conducted?
678.615
May an entity currently serving as one-stop operator compete to be a one-stop operator under the procurement requirements of this subpart?
678.620
What is the one-stop operator's role?
678.625
Can a one-stop operator also be a service provider?
678.630
Can State merit staff still work in a one-stop center where the operator is not a governmental entity?
678.635
What is the compliance date of the provisions of this subpart?

# Subpart E—One-Stop Operating Costs
678.700
What are the one-stop infrastructure costs?
678.705
What guidance must the Governor issue regarding one-stop infrastructure funding?
678.710
How are infrastructure costs funded?
678.715
How are one-stop infrastructure costs funded in the local funding mechanism?
678.720
What funds are used to pay for infrastructure costs in the local one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.725
What happens if consensus on infrastructure funding is not reached at the local level between the Local Workforce Development Board, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners?
678.730
What is the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.731
What are the steps to determine the amount to be paid under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.735
How are infrastructure cost budgets for the one-stop centers in a local area determined in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.736
How does the Governor establish a cost allocation methodology used to determine the one-stop partner programs' proportionate shares of infrastructure costs under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.737
How are one-stop partner programs' proportionate shares of infrastructure costs determined under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.738
How are statewide caps on the contributions for one-stop infrastructure funding determined in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.740
What funds are used to pay for infrastructure costs in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.745
What factors does the State Workforce Development Board use to develop the formula described in Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, which is used by the Governor to determine the appropriate one-stop infrastructure budget for each local area operating under the State infrastructure funding mechanism, if no reasonably implementable locally negotiated budget exists?
678.750
When and how can a one-stop partner appeal a one-stop infrastructure amount designated by the State under the State infrastructure funding mechanism?
678.755
What are the required elements regarding infrastructure funding that must be included in the one-stop Memorandum of Understanding?
678.760
How do one-stop partners jointly fund other shared costs under the Memorandum of Understanding?

# Subpart F—One-Stop Certification
678.800
How are one-stop centers and one-stop delivery systems certified for effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement?

# Subpart G—Common Identifier
678.900
What is the common identifier to be used by each one-stop delivery system?

# Authority:
Secs. 503, 107, 121, 134, 189, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56008, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Description of the One-Stop Delivery System
§ 678.300
What is the one-stop delivery system?
(a) The one-stop delivery system brings together workforce development, educational, and other human
resource services in a seamless customer-focused service delivery network that enhances access to the programs' services and improves long-term employment outcomes for individuals receiving assistance. One-stop partners administer separately funded programs as a set of integrated streamlined services to customers.
(b) Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) assigns responsibilities at the local, State, and Federal level to ensure the creation and maintenance of a one-stop delivery system that enhances the range and quality of education and workforce development services that employers and individual customers can access.
(c) The system must include at least one comprehensive physical center in each local area as described in § 678.305.
(d) The system may also have additional arrangements to supplement the comprehensive center. These arrangements include:
(1) An affiliated site or a network of affiliated sites, where one or more partners make programs, services, and activities available, as described in § 678.310;
(2) A network of eligible one-stop partners, as described in §§ 678.400 through 678.410, through which each partner provides one or more of the programs, services, and activities that are linked, physically or technologically, to an affiliated site or access point that assures customers are provided information on the availability of career services, as well as other program services and activities, regardless of where they initially enter the public workforce system in the local area; and
(3) Specialized centers that address specific needs, including those of dislocated workers, youth, or key industry sectors, or clusters.
(e) Required one-stop partner programs must provide access to programs, services, and activities through electronic means if applicable and practicable. This is in addition to providing access to services through the mandatory comprehensive physical one-stop center and any affiliated sites or specialized centers. The provision of programs and services by electronic methods such as Web sites, telephones, or other means must improve the efficiency, coordination, and quality of one-stop partner services. Electronic delivery must not replace access to such services at a comprehensive one-stop center or be a substitute to making services available at an affiliated site if the partner is participating in an affiliated site. Electronic delivery systems must be in compliance with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIOA sec. 188 and its implementing regulations at 29 CFR part 38.
(f) The design of the local area's one-stop delivery system must be described in the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) executed with the one-stop partners, described in § 678.500.
§ 678.305
What is a comprehensive one-stop center and what must be provided there?
(a) A comprehensive one-stop center is a physical location where job seeker and employer customers can access the programs, services, and activities of all required one-stop partners. A comprehensive one-stop center must have at least one title I staff person physically present.
(b) The comprehensive one-stop center must provide:
(1) Career services, described in § 678.430;
(2) Access to training services described in § 680.200 of this chapter;
(3) Access to any employment and training activities carried out under sec. 134(d) of WIOA;
(4) Access to programs and activities carried out by one-stop partners listed in §§ 678.400 through 678.410, including the Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act, as amended by WIOA title III (Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service program); and
(5) Workforce and labor market information.
(c) Customers must have access to these programs, services, and activities during regular business days at a comprehensive one-stop center. The Local Workforce Development Board (WDB) may establish other service hours at other times to accommodate the schedules of individuals who work on regular business days. The State WDB will
evaluate the hours of access to service as part of the evaluation of effectiveness in the one-stop certification process described in § 678.800(b).
(d) “Access” to each partner program and its services means:
(1) Having a program staff member physically present at the one-stop center;
(2) Having a staff member from a different partner program physically present at the one-stop center appropriately trained to provide information to customers about the programs, services, and activities available through partner programs; or
(3) Making available a direct linkage through technology to program staff who can provide meaningful information or services.
(i) A “direct linkage” means providing direct connection at the one-stop center, within a reasonable time, by phone or through a real-time Web-based communication to a program staff member who can provide program information or services to the customer.
(ii) A “direct linkage” cannot exclusively be providing a phone number or computer Web site or providing information, pamphlets, or materials.
(e) All comprehensive one-stop centers must be physically and programmatically accessible to individuals with disabilities, as described in 29 CFR part 38, the implementing regulations of WIOA sec. 188.
§ 678.310
What is an affiliated site and what must be provided there?
(a) An affiliated site, or affiliate one-stop center, is a site that makes available to job seeker and employer customers one or more of the one-stop partners' programs, services, and activities. An affiliated site does not need to provide access to every required one-stop partner program. The frequency of program staff's physical presence in the affiliated site will be determined at the local level. Affiliated sites are access points in addition to the comprehensive one-stop center(s) in each local area. If used by local areas as a part of the service delivery strategy, affiliate sites must be implemented in a manner that supplements and enhances customer access to services.
(b) As described in § 678.315, Wagner-Peyser Act employment services cannot be a stand-alone affiliated site.
(c) States, in conjunction with the Local WDBs, must examine lease agreements and property holdings throughout the one-stop delivery system in order to use property in an efficient and effective way. Where necessary and appropriate, States and Local WDBs must take expeditious steps to align lease expiration dates with efforts to consolidate one-stop operations into service points where Wagner-Peyser Act employment services are colocated as soon as reasonably possible. These steps must be included in the State Plan.
(d) All affiliated sites must be physically and programmatically accessible to individuals with disabilities, as described in 29 CFR part 38, the implementing regulations of WIOA sec. 188.
§ 678.315
Can a stand-alone Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service office be designated as an affiliated one-stop site?
(a) Separate stand-alone Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service offices are not permitted under WIOA, as also described in § 652.202 of this chapter.
(b) If Wagner-Peyser Act employment services are provided at an affiliated site, there must be at least one or more other partners in the affiliated site with a physical presence of combined staff more than 50 percent of the time the center is open. Additionally, the other partner must not be the partner administering local veterans' employment representatives, disabled veterans' outreach program specialists, or unemployment compensation programs. If Wagner-Peyser Act employment services and any of these 3 programs are provided at an affiliated site, an additional partner or partners must have a presence of combined staff in the center more than 50 percent of the time the center is open.
§ 678.320
Are there any requirements for networks of eligible one-stop partners or specialized centers?
Any network of one-stop partners or specialized centers, as described in § 678.300(d)(3), must be connected to the
comprehensive one-stop center and any appropriate affiliate one-stop centers, for example, by having processes in place to make referrals to these centers and the partner programs located in them. Wagner-Peyser Act employment services cannot stand alone in a specialized center. Just as described in § 678.315 for an affiliated site, a specialized center must include other programs besides Wagner-Peyser Act employment services, local veterans' employment representatives, disabled veterans' outreach program specialists, and unemployment compensation.

# Subpart B—One-Stop Partners and the Responsibilities of Partners
§ 678.400
Who are the required one-stop partners?
(a) Section 121(b)(1)(B) of WIOA identifies the entities that are required partners in the local one-stop delivery systems.
(b) The required partners are the entities responsible for administering the following programs and activities in the local area:
(1) Programs authorized under title I of WIOA, including:
(i) Adults;
(ii) Dislocated workers;
(iii) Youth;
(iv) Job Corps;
(v) YouthBuild;
(vi) Native American programs; and
(vii) Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs;
(2) The Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service program authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
), as amended by WIOA title III;
(3) The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program authorized under title II of WIOA;
(4) The Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) program authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
), as amended by WIOA title IV;
(5) The Senior Community Service Employment Program authorized under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056
et seq.
);
(6) Career and technical education programs at the postsecondary level authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
);
(7) Trade Adjustment Assistance activities authorized under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271
et seq.
);
(8) Jobs for Veterans State Grants programs authorized under chapter 41 of title 38, U.S.C.;
(9) Employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant (42 U.S.C. 9901
et seq.
);
(10) Employment and training activities carried out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
(11) Programs authorized under State unemployment compensation laws (in accordance with applicable Federal law);
(12) Programs authorized under sec. 212 of the Second Chance Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17532); and
(13) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) authorized under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), unless exempted by the Governor under § 678.405(b).
§ 678.405
Is Temporary Assistance for Needy Families a required one-stop partner?
(a) Yes, TANF, authorized under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), is a required partner.
(b) The Governor may determine that TANF will not be a required partner in the State, or within some specific local areas in the State. In this instance, the Governor must notify the Secretaries of the U.S. Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services in writing of this determination.
(c) In States, or local areas within a State, where the Governor has determined that TANF is not required to be a partner, local TANF programs may still work in collaboration or partnership with the local one-stop centers to deliver employment and training services to the TANF population unless inconsistent with the Governor's direction.
§ 678.410
What other entities may serve as one-stop partners?
(a) Other entities that carry out a workforce development program, including Federal, State, or local programs and programs in the private sector, may serve as additional partners in the one-stop delivery system if the Local WDB and chief elected official(s) approve the entity's participation.
(b) Additional partners may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Employment and training programs administered by the Social Security Administration, including the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program established under sec. 1148 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-19);
(2) Employment and training programs carried out by the Small Business Administration;
(3) Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) employment and training programs, authorized under secs. 6(d)(4) and 6(o) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4));
(4) Client Assistance Program authorized under sec. 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 732);
(5) Programs authorized under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501
et seq.
); and
(6) Other appropriate Federal, State or local programs, including, but not limited to, employment, education, and training programs provided by public libraries or in the private sector.
§ 678.415
What entity serves as the one-stop partner for a particular program in the local area?
(a) The entity that carries out the program and activities listed in § 678.400 or § 678.410, and therefore serves as the one-stop partner, is the grant recipient, administrative entity, or organization responsible for administering the funds of the specified program in the local area. The term “entity” does not include the service providers that contract with, or are subrecipients of, the local administrative entity. For programs that do not include local administrative entities, the responsible State agency must be the partner. Specific entities for particular programs are identified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. If a program or activity listed in § 678.400 is not carried out in a local area, the requirements relating to a required one-stop partner are not applicable to such program or activity in that local one-stop delivery system.
(b) For title II of WIOA, the entity or agency that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the sole entity or agency in the State or outlying area responsible for administering or supervising policy for adult education and literacy activities in the State or outlying area. The State eligible entity or agency may delegate its responsibilities under paragraph (a) of this section to one or more eligible providers or consortium of eligible providers.
(c) For the VR program, authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by WIOA title IV, the entity that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the designated State agencies or designated State units specified under sec. 101(a)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act that is primarily concerned with vocational rehabilitation, or vocational and other rehabilitation, of individuals with disabilities.
(d) Under WIOA title I, the national programs, including Job Corps, the Native American program, YouthBuild, and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker programs are required one-stop partners. The entity for the Native American program, YouthBuild, and Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker programs is the grantee of those respective programs. The entity for Job Corps is the Job Corps center.
(e) For the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, the entity that carries out the program for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section is the eligible recipient or recipients at the postsecondary level, or a consortium of eligible recipients at the postsecondary level in the local area. The eligible recipient at the postsecondary level may also request assistance from the State eligible agency in completing its responsibilities under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 678.420
What are the roles and responsibilities of the required one-stop partners?
Each required partner must:
(a) Provide access to its programs or activities through the one-stop delivery system, in addition to any other appropriate locations;
(b) Use a portion of funds made available to the partner's program, to the extent consistent with the Federal law authorizing the partner's program and with Federal cost principles in 2 CFR parts 200 and 2900 (requiring, among other things, that costs are allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable), to:
(1) Provide applicable career services; and
(2) Work collaboratively with the State and Local WDBs to establish and maintain the one-stop delivery system. This includes jointly funding the one-stop infrastructure through partner contributions that are based upon:
(i) A reasonable cost allocation methodology by which infrastructure costs are charged to each partner based on proportionate use and relative benefit received;
(ii) Federal cost principles; and
(iii) Any local administrative cost requirements in the Federal law authorizing the partner's program. (This is further described in § 678.700.)
(c) Enter into an MOU with the Local WDB relating to the operation of the one-stop delivery system that meets the requirements of § 678.500(b);
(d) Participate in the operation of the one-stop delivery system consistent with the terms of the MOU, requirements of authorizing laws, the Federal cost principles, and all other applicable legal requirements; and
(e) Provide representation on the State and Local WDBs as required and participate in Board committees as needed.
§ 678.425
What are the applicable career services that must be provided through the one-stop delivery system by required one-stop partners?
(a) The applicable career services to be delivered by required one-stop partners are those services listed in § 678.430 that are authorized to be provided under each partner's program.
(b) One-stop centers provide services to individual customers based on individual needs, including the seamless delivery of multiple services to individual customers. There is no required sequence of services.
§ 678.430
What are career services?
Career services, as identified in sec. 134(c)(2) of WIOA, consist of three types:
(a) Basic career services must be made available and, at a minimum, must include the following services, as consistent with allowable program activities and Federal cost principles:
(1) Determinations of whether the individual is eligible to receive assistance from the adult, dislocated worker, or youth programs;
(2) Outreach, intake (including worker profiling), and orientation to information and other services available through the one-stop delivery system. For the TANF program, States must provide individuals with the opportunity to initiate an application for TANF assistance and non-assistance benefits and services, which could be implemented through the provision of paper application forms or links to the application Web site;
(3) Initial assessment of skill levels including literacy, numeracy, and English language proficiency, as well as aptitudes, abilities (including skills gaps), and supportive services needs;
(4) Labor exchange services, including—
(i) Job search and placement assistance, and, when needed by an individual, career counseling, including—
(A) Provision of information on in-demand industry sectors and occupations (as defined in sec. 3(23) of WIOA); and
(B) Provision of information on nontraditional employment; and
(ii) Appropriate recruitment and other business services on behalf of employers, including information and referrals to specialized business services other than those traditionally offered through the one-stop delivery system;
(5) Provision of referrals to and coordination of activities with other programs and services, including programs and services within the one-stop delivery system and, when appropriate, other workforce development programs;
(6) Provision of workforce and labor market employment statistics information, including the provision of accurate information relating to local, regional, and national labor market areas, including—
(i) Job vacancy listings in labor market areas;
(ii) Information on job skills necessary to obtain the vacant jobs listed; and
(iii) Information relating to local occupations in demand and the earnings, skill requirements, and opportunities for advancement for those jobs;
(7) Provision of performance information and program cost information on eligible providers of education, training, and workforce services by program and type of providers;
(8) Provision of information, in usable and understandable formats and languages, about how the local area is performing on local performance accountability measures, as well as any additional performance information relating to the area's one-stop delivery system;
(9) Provision of information, in usable and understandable formats and languages, relating to the availability of supportive services or assistance, and appropriate referrals to those services and assistance, including: Child care; child support; medical or child health assistance available through the State's Medicaid program and Children's Health Insurance Program; benefits under SNAP; assistance through the earned income tax credit; and assistance under a State program for TANF, and other supportive services and transportation provided through that program;
(10) Provision of information and meaningful assistance to individuals seeking assistance in filing a claim for unemployment compensation.
(i) “Meaningful assistance” means:
(A) Providing assistance on-site using staff who are well-trained in unemployment compensation claims filing and the rights and responsibilities of claimants; or
(B) Providing assistance by phone or via other technology, as long as the assistance is provided by trained and available staff and within a reasonable time.
(ii) The costs associated in providing this assistance may be paid for by the State's unemployment insurance program, or the WIOA adult or dislocated worker programs, or some combination thereof.
(11) Assistance in establishing eligibility for programs of financial aid assistance for training and education programs not provided under WIOA.
(b) Individualized career services must be made available if determined to be appropriate in order for an individual to obtain or retain employment. These services include the following services, as consistent with program requirements and Federal cost principles:
(1) Comprehensive and specialized assessments of the skill levels and service needs of adults and dislocated workers, which may include—
(i) Diagnostic testing and use of other assessment tools; and
(ii) In-depth interviewing and evaluation to identify employment barriers and appropriate employment goals;
(2) Development of an individual employment plan, to identify the employment goals, appropriate achievement objectives, and appropriate combination of services for the participant to achieve his or her employment goals, including the list of, and information about, the eligible training providers (as described in § 680.180 of this chapter);
(3) Group counseling;
(4) Individual counseling;
(5) Career planning;
(6) Short-term pre-vocational services including development of learning skills, communication skills, interviewing skills, punctuality, personal maintenance skills, and professional conduct services to prepare individuals for unsubsidized employment or training;
(7) Internships and work experiences that are linked to careers (as described in § 680.170 of this chapter);
(8) Workforce preparation activities;
(9) Financial literacy services as described in sec. 129(b)(2)(D) of WIOA and § 681.500 of this chapter;
(10) Out-of-area job search assistance and relocation assistance; and
(11) English language acquisition and integrated education and training programs.
(c) Follow-up services must be provided, as appropriate, including: Counseling regarding the workplace, for participants in adult or dislocated worker workforce investment activities who are placed in unsubsidized employment, for up to 12 months after the first day of employment.
(d) In addition to the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, TANF agencies must identify employment services and related support being provided by the TANF program (within the local area) that qualify as career services and ensure access to them via the local one-stop delivery system.
§ 678.435
What are the business services provided through the one-stop delivery system, and how are they provided?
(a) Certain career services must be made available to local employers, specifically labor exchange activities and labor market information described in § 678.430(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(6). Local areas must establish and develop relationships and networks with large and small employers and their intermediaries. Local areas also must develop, convene, or implement industry or sector partnerships.
(b) Customized business services may be provided to employers, employer associations, or other such organizations. These services are tailored for specific employers and may include:
(1) Customized screening and referral of qualified participants in training services to employers;
(2) Customized services to employers, employer associations, or other such organizations, on employment-related issues;
(3) Customized recruitment events and related services for employers including targeted job fairs;
(4) Human resource consultation services, including but not limited to assistance with:
(i) Writing/reviewing job descriptions and employee handbooks;
(ii) Developing performance evaluation and personnel policies;
(iii) Creating orientation sessions for new workers;
(iv) Honing job interview techniques for efficiency and compliance;
(v) Analyzing employee turnover;
(vi) Creating job accommodations and using assistive technologies; or
(vii) Explaining labor and employment laws to help employers comply with discrimination, wage/hour, and safety/health regulations;
(5) Customized labor market information for specific employers, sectors, industries or clusters; and
(6) Other similar customized services.
(c) Local areas may also provide other business services and strategies that meet the workforce investment needs of area employers, in accordance with partner programs' statutory requirements and consistent with Federal cost principles. These business services may be provided through effective business intermediaries working in conjunction with the Local WDB, or through the use of economic development, philanthropic, and other public and private resources in a manner determined appropriate by the Local WDB and in cooperation with the State. Allowable activities, consistent with each partner's authorized activities, include, but are not limited to:
(1) Developing and implementing industry sector strategies (including strategies involving industry partnerships, regional skills alliances, industry skill panels, and sectoral skills partnerships);
(2) Customized assistance or referral for assistance in the development of a registered apprenticeship program;
(3) Developing and delivering innovative workforce investment services and strategies for area employers, which may include career pathways, skills upgrading, skill standard development and certification for recognized postsecondary credential or other employer use, and other effective initiatives for meeting the workforce investment needs of area employers and workers;
(4) Assistance to area employers in managing reductions in force in coordination with rapid response activities and with strategies for the aversion of layoffs, which may include strategies
such as early identification of firms at risk of layoffs, use of feasibility studies to assess the needs of and options for at-risk firms, and the delivery of employment and training activities to address risk factors;
(5) The marketing of business services to appropriate area employers, including small and mid-sized employers; and
(6) Assisting employers with accessing local, State, and Federal tax credits.
(d) All business services and strategies must be reflected in the local plan, described in § 679.560(b)(3) of this chapter.
§ 678.440
When may a fee be charged for the business services in this subpart?
(a) There is no requirement that a fee-for-service be charged to employers.
(b) No fee may be charged for services provided in § 678.435(a).
(c) A fee may be charged for services provided under § 678.435(b) and (c). Services provided under § 678.435(c) may be provided through effective business intermediaries working in conjunction with the Local WDB and may also be provided on a fee-for-service basis or through the leveraging of economic development, philanthropic, and other public and private resources in a manner determined appropriate by the Local WDB. The Local WDB may examine the services provided compared with the assets and resources available within the local one-stop delivery system and through its partners to determine an appropriate cost structure for services, if any.
(d) Any fees earned are recognized as program income and must be expended by the partner in accordance with the partner program's authorizing statute, implementing regulations, and Federal cost principles identified in Uniform Guidance.

# Subpart C—Memorandum of Understanding for the One-Stop Delivery System
§ 678.500
What is the Memorandum of Understanding for the one-stop delivery system and what must be included in the Memorandum of Understanding?
(a) The MOU is the product of local discussion and negotiation, and is an agreement developed and executed between the Local WDB and the one-stop partners, with the agreement of the chief elected official and the one-stop partners, relating to the operation of the one-stop delivery system in the local area. Two or more local areas in a region may develop a single joint MOU, if they are in a region that has submitted a regional plan under sec. 106 of WIOA.
(b) The MOU must include:
(1) A description of services to be provided through the one-stop delivery system, including the manner in which the services will be coordinated and delivered through the system;
(2) Agreement on funding the costs of the services and the operating costs of the system, including:
(i) Funding of infrastructure costs of one-stop centers in accordance with §§ 678.700 through 678.755; and
(ii) Funding of the shared services and operating costs of the one-stop delivery system described in § 678.760;
(3) Methods for referring individuals between the one-stop operators and partners for appropriate services and activities;
(4) Methods to ensure that the needs of workers, youth, and individuals with barriers to employment, including individuals with disabilities, are addressed in providing access to services, including access to technology and materials that are available through the one-stop delivery system;
(5) The duration of the MOU and procedures for amending it; and
(6) Assurances that each MOU will be reviewed, and if substantial changes have occurred, renewed, not less than once every 3-year period to ensure appropriate funding and delivery of services.
(c) The MOU may contain any other provisions agreed to by the parties that
are consistent with WIOA title I, the authorizing statutes and regulations of one-stop partner programs, and the WIOA regulations.
(d) When fully executed, the MOU must contain the signatures of the Local WDB, one-stop partners, the chief elected official(s), and the time period in which the agreement is effective. The MOU must be updated not less than every 3 years to reflect any changes in the signatory official of the Board, one-stop partners, and chief elected officials, or one-stop infrastructure funding.
(e) If a one-stop partner appeal to the State regarding infrastructure costs, using the process described in § 678.750, results in a change to the one-stop partner's infrastructure cost contributions, the MOU must be updated to reflect the final one-stop partner infrastructure cost contributions.
§ 678.505
Is there a single Memorandum of Understanding for the local area, or must there be different Memoranda of Understanding between the Local Workforce Development Board and each partner?
(a) A single “umbrella” MOU may be developed that addresses the issues relating to the local one-stop delivery system for the Local WDB, chief elected official and all partners. Alternatively, the Local WDB (with agreement of chief elected official) may enter into separate agreements between each partner or groups of partners.
(b) Under either approach, the requirements described in § 678.500 apply. Since funds are generally appropriated annually, the Local WDB may negotiate financial agreements with each partner annually to update funding of services and operating costs of the system under the MOU.
§ 678.510
How must the Memorandum of Understanding be negotiated?
(a) WIOA emphasizes full and effective partnerships between Local WDBs, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners. Local WDBs and partners must enter into good-faith negotiations. Local WDBs, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners may also request assistance from a State agency responsible for administering the partner program, the Governor, State WDB, or other appropriate parties on other aspects of the MOU.
(b) Local WDBs and one-stop partners must establish, in the MOU, how they will fund the infrastructure costs and other shared costs of the one-stop centers. If agreement regarding infrastructure costs is not reached when other sections of the MOU are ready, an interim infrastructure funding agreement may be included instead, as described in § 678.715(c). Once agreement on infrastructure funding is reached, the Local WDB and one-stop partners must amend the MOU to include the infrastructure funding of the one-stop centers. Infrastructure funding is described in detail in subpart E of this part.
(c) The Local WDB must report to the State WDB, Governor, and relevant State agency when MOU negotiations with one-stop partners have reached an impasse.
(1) The Local WDB and partners must document the negotiations and efforts that have taken place in the MOU. The State WDB, one-stop partner programs, and the Governor may consult with the appropriate Federal agencies to address impasse situations related to issues other than infrastructure funding after attempting to address the impasse. Impasses related to infrastructure cost funding must be resolved using the State infrastructure cost funding mechanism described in § 678.730.
(2) The Local WDB must report failure to execute an MOU with a required partner to the Governor, State WDB, and the State agency responsible for administering the partner's program. Additionally, if the State cannot assist the Local WDB in resolving the impasse, the Governor or the State WDB must report the failure to the Secretary of Labor and to the head of any other Federal agency with responsibility for oversight of a partner's program.

# Subpart D—One-Stop Operators
§ 678.600
Who may operate one-stop centers?
(a) One-stop operators may be a single entity (public, private, or nonprofit) or a consortium of entities. If the consortium of entities is one of one-stop partners, it must include a minimum of three of the one-stop partners described in § 678.400.
(b) The one-stop operator may operate one or more one-stop centers. There may be more than one one-stop operator in a local area.
(c) The types of entities that may be a one-stop operator include:
(1) An institution of higher education;
(2) An Employment Service State agency established under the Wagner-Peyser Act;
(3) A community-based organization, nonprofit organization, or workforce intermediary;
(4) A private for-profit entity;
(5) A government agency;
(6) A Local WDB, with the approval of the chief elected official and the Governor; or
(7) Another interested organization or entity, which is capable of carrying out the duties of the one-stop operator. Examples may include a local chamber of commerce or other business organization, or a labor organization.
(d) Elementary schools and secondary schools are not eligible as one-stop operators, except that a nontraditional public secondary school such as a night school, adult school, or an area career and technical education school may be selected.
(e) The State and Local WDBs must ensure that, in carrying out WIOA programs and activities, one-stop operators:
(1) Disclose any potential conflicts of interest arising from the relationships of the operators with particular training service providers or other service providers (further discussed in § 679.430 of this chapter);
(2) Do not establish practices that create disincentives to providing services to individuals with barriers to employment who may require longer-term career and training services; and
(3) Comply with Federal regulations and procurement policies relating to the calculation and use of profits, including those at § 683.295 of this chapter, the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and other applicable regulations and policies.
§ 678.605
How is the one-stop operator selected?
(a) Consistent with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Local WDB must select the one-stop operator through a competitive process, as required by sec. 121(d)(2)(A) of WIOA, at least once every 4 years. A State may require, or a Local WDB may choose to implement, a competitive selection process more than once every 4 years.
(b) In instances in which a State is conducting the competitive process described in paragraph (a) of this section, the State must follow the same policies and procedures it uses for procurement with non-Federal funds.
(c) All other non-Federal entities, including subrecipients of a State (such as local areas), must use a competitive process based on local procurement policies and procedures and the principles of competitive procurement in the Uniform Guidance set out at 2 CFR 200.318 through 200.326. All references to “noncompetitive proposals” in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR 200.320(f) will be read as “sole source procurement” for the purposes of implementing this section.
(d) Entities must prepare written documentation explaining the determination concerning the nature of the competitive process to be followed in selecting a one-stop operator.
§ 678.610
When is the sole-source selection of one-stop operators appropriate, and how is it conducted?
(a) States may select a one-stop operator through sole source selection when allowed under the same policies and procedures used for competitive procurement with non-Federal funds, while other non-Federal entities including subrecipients of a State (such as local areas) may select a one-stop operator through sole selection when consistent with local procurement policies and procedures and the Uniform Guidance set out at 2 CFR 200.320.
(b) In the event that sole source procurement is determined necessary and reasonable, in accordance with § 678.605(c), written documentation must be prepared and maintained concerning the entire process of making such a selection.
(c) Such sole source procurement must include appropriate conflict of interest policies and procedures. These policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in § 679.430 of this chapter for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflict of interest.
(d) A Local WDB may be selected as a one-stop operator through sole source procurement only with agreement of the chief elected official in the local area and the Governor. The Local WDB must establish sufficient conflict of interest policies and procedures and these policies and procedures must be approved by the Governor.
§ 678.615
May an entity currently serving as one-stop operator compete to be a one-stop operator under the procurement requirements of this subpart?
(a) Local WDBs may compete for and be selected as one-stop operators, as long as appropriate firewalls and conflict of interest policies and procedures are in place. These policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in § 679.430 of this chapter for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflict of interest.
(b) State and local agencies may compete for and be selected as one-stop operators by the Local WDB, as long as appropriate firewalls and conflict of interest policies and procedures are in place. These policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in § 679.430 of this chapter for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflict of interest.
(c) In the case of single-area States where the State WDB serves as the Local WDB, the State agency is eligible to compete for and be selected as operator as long as appropriate firewalls and conflict of interest policies are in place and followed for the competition. These policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in § 679.430 of this chapter for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflicts of interest.
§ 678.620
What is the one-stop operator's role?
(a) At a minimum, the one-stop operator must coordinate the service delivery of required one-stop partners and service providers. Local WDBs may establish additional roles of one-stop operator, including, but not limited to: Coordinating service providers across the one-stop delivery system, being the primary provider of services within the center, providing some of the services within the center, or coordinating service delivery in a multi-center area, which may include affiliated sites. The competition for a one-stop operator must clearly articulate the role of the one-stop operator.
(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a one-stop operator may not perform the following functions: Convene system stakeholders to assist in the development of the local plan; prepare and submit local plans (as required under sec. 107 of WIOA); be responsible for oversight of itself; manage or significantly participate in the competitive selection process for one-stop operators; select or terminate one-stop operators, career services, and youth providers; negotiate local performance accountability measures; or develop and submit budget for activities of the Local WDB in the local area.
(2) An entity serving as a one-stop operator, that also serves a different role within the one-stop delivery system, may perform some or all of these functions when it is acting in its other role, if it has established sufficient firewalls and conflict of interest policies and procedures. The policies and procedures must conform to the specifications in § 679.430 of this chapter for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflict of interest.
§ 678.625
Can a one-stop operator also be a service provider?
Yes, but there must be appropriate firewalls in place in regards to the competition, and subsequent oversight,
monitoring, and evaluation of performance of the service provider. The operator cannot develop, manage, or conduct the competition of a service provider in which it intends to compete. In cases where an operator is also a service provider, there must be firewalls and internal controls within the operator-service provider entity, as well as specific policies and procedures at the Local WDB level regarding oversight, monitoring, and evaluation of performance of the service provider. The firewalls must conform to the specifications in § 679.430 of this chapter for demonstrating internal controls and preventing conflicts of interest.
§ 678.630
Can State merit staff still work in a one-stop center where the operator is not a governmental entity?
Yes. State merit staff can continue to perform functions and activities in the one-stop center. The Local WDB and one-stop operator must establish a system for management of merit staff in accordance with State policies and procedures. Continued use of State merit staff for the provision of Wagner-Peyser Act services or services from other programs with merit staffing requirements must be included in the competition for and final contract with the one-stop operator when Wagner-Peyser Act services or services from other programs with merit staffing requirements are being provided.
§ 678.635
What is the compliance date of the provisions of this subpart?
(a) No later than July 1, 2017, one-stop operators selected under the competitive process described in this subpart must be in place and operating the one-stop center.
(b) By November 17, 2016, every Local WDB must demonstrate it is taking steps to prepare for competition of its one-stop operator. This demonstration may include, but is not limited to, market research, requests for information, and conducting a cost and price analysis.

# Subpart E—One-Stop Operating Costs
§ 678.700
What are the one-stop infrastructure costs?
(a) Infrastructure costs of one-stop centers are nonpersonnel costs that are necessary for the general operation of the one-stop center, including:
(1) Rental of the facilities;
(2) Utilities and maintenance;
(3) Equipment (including assessment-related products and assistive technology for individuals with disabilities); and
(4) Technology to facilitate access to the one-stop center, including technology used for the center's planning and outreach activities.
(b) Local WDBs may consider common identifier costs as costs of one-stop infrastructure.
(c) Each entity that carries out a program or activities in a local one-stop center, described in §§ 678.400 through 678.410, must use a portion of the funds available for the program and activities to maintain the one-stop delivery system, including payment of the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers. These payments must be in accordance with this subpart; Federal cost principles, which require that all costs must be allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable to the program; and all other applicable legal requirements.
§ 678.705
What guidance must the Governor issue regarding one-stop infrastructure funding?
(a) The Governor, after consultation with chief elected officials, the State WDB, and Local WDBs, and consistent with guidance and policies provided by the State WDB, must develop and issue guidance for use by local areas, specifically:
(1) Guidelines for State-administered one-stop partner programs for determining such programs' contributions to a one-stop delivery system, based on such programs' proportionate use of such system, and relative benefit received, consistent with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for
Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200, including determining funding for the costs of infrastructure; and
(2) Guidance to assist Local WDBs, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners in local areas in determining equitable and stable methods of funding the costs of infrastructure at one-stop centers based on proportionate use and relative benefit received, and consistent with Federal cost principles contained in the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200.
(b) The guidance must include:
(1) The appropriate roles of the one-stop partner programs in identifying one-stop infrastructure costs;
(2) Approaches to facilitate equitable and efficient cost allocation that results in a reasonable cost allocation methodology where infrastructure costs are charged to each partner based on its proportionate use of the one-stop centers and relative benefit received, consistent with Federal cost principles at 2 CFR part 200; and
(3) The timelines regarding notification to the Governor for not reaching local agreement and triggering the State funding mechanism described in § 678.730, and timelines for a one-stop partner to submit an appeal in the State funding mechanism.
§ 678.710
How are infrastructure costs funded?
Infrastructure costs are funded either through the local funding mechanism described in § 678.715 or through the State funding mechanism described in § 678.730.
§ 678.715
How are one-stop infrastructure costs funded in the local funding mechanism?
(a) In the local funding mechanism, the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners agree to amounts and methods of calculating amounts each partner will contribute for one-stop infrastructure funding, include the infrastructure funding terms in the MOU, and sign the MOU. The local funding mechanism must meet all of the following requirements:
(1) The infrastructure costs are funded through cash and fairly evaluated non-cash and third-party in-kind partner contributions and include any funding from philanthropic organizations or other private entities, or through other alternative financing options, to provide a stable and equitable funding stream for ongoing one-stop delivery system operations;
(2) Contributions must be negotiated between one-stop partners, chief elected officials, and the Local WDB and the amount to be contributed must be included in the MOU;
(3) The one-stop partner program's proportionate share of funding must be calculated in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200 based upon a reasonable cost allocation methodology whereby infrastructure costs are charged to each partner in proportion to its use of the one-stop center, relative to benefits received. Such costs must also be allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable;
(4) Partner shares must be periodically reviewed and reconciled against actual costs incurred, and adjusted to ensure that actual costs charged to any one-stop partners are proportionate to the use of the one-stop center and relative to the benefit received by the one-stop partners and their respective programs or activities.
(b) In developing the section of the MOU on one-stop infrastructure funding described in § 678.755, the Local WDB and chief elected officials will:
(1) Ensure that the one-stop partners adhere to the guidance identified in § 678.705 on one-stop delivery system infrastructure costs.
(2) Work with one-stop partners to achieve consensus and informally mediate any possible conflicts or disagreements among one-stop partners.
(3) Provide technical assistance to new one-stop partners and local grant recipients to ensure that those entities are informed and knowledgeable of the elements contained in the MOU and the one-stop infrastructure costs arrangement.
(c) The MOU may include an interim infrastructure funding agreement, including as much detail as the Local WDB has negotiated with one-stop partners, if all other parts of the MOU have been negotiated, in order to allow
the partner programs to operate in the one-stop centers. The interim infrastructure funding agreement must be finalized within 6 months of when the MOU is signed. If the interim infrastructure funding agreement is not finalized within that timeframe, the Local WDB must notify the Governor, as described in § 678.725.
§ 678.720
What funds are used to pay for infrastructure costs in the local one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) In the local funding mechanism, one-stop partner programs may determine what funds they will use to pay for infrastructure costs. The use of these funds must be in accordance with the requirements in this subpart, and with the relevant partner's authorizing statutes and regulations, including, for example, prohibitions against supplanting non-Federal resources, statutory limitations on administrative costs, and all other applicable legal requirements. In the case of partners administering programs authorized by title I of WIOA, these infrastructure costs may be considered program costs. In the case of partners administering adult education and literacy programs authorized by title II of WIOA, these funds must include Federal funds made available for the local administration of adult education and literacy programs authorized by title II of WIOA. These funds may also include non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind or third-party contributions. In the case of partners administering the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, funds used to pay for infrastructure costs may include funds available for local administrative expenses, non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind or third-party contributions, and may include other funds made available by the State.
(b) There are no specific caps on the amount or percent of overall funding a one-stop partner may contribute to fund infrastructure costs under the local funding mechanism, except that contributions for administrative costs may not exceed the amount available for administrative costs under the authorizing statute of the partner program. However, amounts contributed for infrastructure costs must be allowable and based on proportionate use of the one-stop centers and relative benefit received by the partner program, taking into account the total cost of the one-stop infrastructure as well as alternate financing options, and must be consistent with 2 CFR part 200, including the Federal cost principles.
(c) Cash, non-cash, and third-party in-kind contributions may be provided by one-stop partners to cover their proportionate share of infrastructure costs.
(1) Cash contributions are cash funds provided to the Local WDB or its designee by one-stop partners, either directly or by an interagency transfer.
(2) Non-cash contributions are comprised of—
(i) Expenditures incurred by one-stop partners on behalf of the one-stop center; and
(ii) Non-cash contributions or goods or services contributed by a partner program and used by the one-stop center.
(3) Non-cash contributions, especially those set forth in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, must be valued consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 to ensure they are fairly evaluated and meet the partners' proportionate share.
(4) Third-party in-kind contributions are:
(i) Contributions of space, equipment, technology, non-personnel services, or other like items to support the infrastructure costs associated with one-stop operations, by a non-one-stop partner to support the one-stop center in general, not a specific partner; or
(ii) Contributions by a non-one-stop partner of space, equipment, technology, non-personnel services, or other like items to support the infrastructure costs associated with one-stop operations, to a one-stop partner to support its proportionate share of one-stop infrastructure costs.
(iii) In-kind contributions described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section must be valued consistent with 2 CFR 200.306 and reconciled on a regular basis to ensure they are fairly evaluated and meet the proportionate share of the partner.
(5) All partner contributions, regardless of the type, must be reconciled on
a regular basis (
i.e.,
monthly or quarterly), comparing actual expenses incurred to relative benefits received, to ensure each partner program is contributing its proportionate share in accordance with the terms of the MOU.
§ 678.725
What happens if consensus on infrastructure funding is not reached at the local level between the Local Workforce Development Board, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners?
With regard to negotiations for infrastructure funding for Program Year (PY) 2017 and for each subsequent program year thereafter, if the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners do not reach consensus on methods of sufficiently funding local infrastructure through the local funding mechanism in accordance with the Governor's guidance issued under § 678.705 and consistent with the regulations in §§ 678.715 and 678.720, and include that consensus agreement in the signed MOU, then the Local WDB must notify the Governor by the deadline established by the Governor under § 678.705(b)(3). Once notified, the Governor must administer funding through the State funding mechanism, as described in §§ 678.730 through 678.738, for the program year impacted by the local area's failure to reach consensus.
§ 678.730
What is the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) Consistent with sec. 121(h)(1)(A)(i)(II) of WIOA, if the Local WDB, chief elected official, and one-stop partners in a local area do not reach consensus agreement on methods of sufficiently funding the costs of infrastructure of one-stop centers for a program year, the State funding mechanism is applicable to the local area for that program year.
(b) In the State funding mechanism, the Governor, subject to the limitations in paragraph (c) of this section, determines one-stop partner contributions after consultation with the chief elected officials, Local WDBs, and the State WDB. This determination involves:
(1) The application of a budget for one-stop infrastructure costs as described in § 678.735, based on either agreement reached in the local area negotiations or the State WDB formula outlined in § 678.745;
(2) The determination of each local one-stop partner program's proportionate use of the one-stop delivery system and relative benefit received, consistent with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200, including the Federal cost principles, the partner programs' authorizing laws and regulations, and other applicable legal requirements described in § 678.736; and
(3) The calculation of required statewide program caps on contributions to infrastructure costs from one-stop partner programs in areas operating under the State funding mechanism as described in § 678.738.
(c) In certain situations, the Governor does not determine the infrastructure cost contributions for some one-stop partner programs under the State funding mechanism.
(1) The Governor will not determine the contribution amounts for infrastructure funds for Native American program grantees described in part 684 of this chapter. The appropriate portion of funds to be provided by Native American program grantees to pay for one-stop infrastructure must be determined as part of the development of the MOU described in § 678.500 and specified in that MOU.
(2) In States in which the policy-making authority is placed in an entity or official that is independent of the authority of the Governor with respect to the funds provided for adult education and literacy activities authorized under title II of WIOA, postsecondary career and technical education activities authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, or VR services authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (other than sec. 112 or part C), as amended by WIOA title IV, the determination of the amount each of the applicable partners must contribute to assist in paying the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers must be made by the official or chief officer of the entity with such authority, in consultation with the Governor.
(d) Any duty, ability, choice, responsibility, or other action otherwise related to the determination of infrastructure costs contributions that is
assigned to the Governor in §§ 678.730 through 678.745 also applies to this decision-making process performed by the official or chief officer described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
§ 678.731
What are the steps to determine the amount to be paid under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) To initiate the State funding mechanism, a Local WDB that has not reached consensus on methods of sufficiently funding local infrastructure through the local funding mechanism as provided in § 678.725 must notify the Governor by the deadline established by the Governor under § 678.705(b)(3).
(b) Once a Local WDB has informed the Governor that no consensus has been reached:
(1) The Local WDB must provide the Governor with local negotiation materials in accordance with § 678.735(a).
(2) The Governor must determine the one-stop center budget by either:
(i) Accepting a budget previously agreed upon by partner programs in the local negotiations, in accordance with § 678.735(b)(1); or
(ii) Creating a budget for the one-stop center using the State WDB formula (described in § 678.745) in accordance with § 678.735(b)(3).
(3) The Governor then must establish a cost allocation methodology to determine the one-stop partner programs' proportionate shares of infrastructure costs, in accordance with § 678.736.
(4)(i) Using the methodology established under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, and taking into consideration the factors concerning individual partner programs listed in § 678.737(b)(2), the Governor must determine each partner's proportionate share of the infrastructure costs, in accordance with § 678.737(b)(1), and
(ii) In accordance with § 678.730(c), in some instances, the Governor does not determine a partner program's proportionate share of infrastructure funding costs, in which case it must be determined by the entities named in § 678.730(c)(1) and (2).
(5) The Governor must then calculate the statewide caps on the amounts that partner programs may be required to contribute toward infrastructure funding, according to the steps found at § 678.738(a)(1) through (4).
(6) The Governor must ensure that the aggregate total of the infrastructure contributions according to proportionate share required of all local partner programs in local areas under the State funding mechanism do not exceed the cap for that particular program, in accordance with § 678.738(b)(1). If the total does not exceed the cap, the Governor must direct each one-stop partner program to pay the amount determined under § 678.737(a) toward the infrastructure funding costs of the one-stop center. If the total does exceed the cap, then to determine the amount to direct each one-stop program to pay, the Governor may:
(i) Ascertain, in accordance with § 678.738(b)(2)(i), whether the local partner or partners whose proportionate shares are calculated above the individual program caps are willing to voluntarily contribute above the capped amount to equal that program's proportionate share; or
(ii) Choose from the options provided in § 678.738(b)(2)(ii), including having the local area re-enter negotiations to reassess each one-stop partner's proportionate share and make adjustments or identify alternate sources of funding to make up the difference between the capped amount and the proportionate share of infrastructure funding of the one-stop partner.
(7) If none of the solutions given in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section prove to be viable, the Governor must reassess the proportionate shares of each one-stop partner so that the aggregate amount attributable to the local partners for each program is less than that program's cap amount. Upon such reassessment, the Governor must direct each one-stop partner program to pay the reassessed amount toward the infrastructure funding costs of the one-stop center.
§ 678.735
How are infrastructure cost budgets for the one-stop centers in a local area determined in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) Local WDBs must provide to the Governor appropriate and relevant materials and documents used in the negotiations under the local funding
mechanism, including but not limited to: The local WIOA plan, the cost allocation method or methods proposed by the partners to be used in determining proportionate share, the proposed amounts or budget to fund infrastructure, the amount of total partner funds included, the type of funds or non-cash contributions, proposed one-stop center budgets, and any agreed upon or proposed MOUs.
(b)(1) If a local area has reached agreement as to the infrastructure budget for the one-stop centers in the local area, it must provide this budget to the Governor as required by paragraph (a) of this section. If, as a result of the agreed upon infrastructure budget, only the individual programmatic contributions to infrastructure funding based upon proportionate use of the one-stop centers and relative benefit received are at issue, the Governor may accept the budget, from which the Governor must calculate each partner's contribution consistent with the cost allocation methodologies contained in the Uniform Guidance found in 2 CFR part 200, as described in § 678.736.
(2) The Governor may also take into consideration the extent to which the partners in the local area have agreed in determining the proportionate shares, including any agreements reached at the local level by one or more partners, as well as any other element or product of the negotiating process provided to the Governor as required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) If a local area has not reached agreement as to the infrastructure budget for the one-stop centers in the local area, or if the Governor determines that the agreed upon budget does not adequately meet the needs of the local area or does not reasonably work within the confines of the local area's resources in accordance with the Governor's one-stop budget guidance (which is required to be issued by WIOA sec. 121(h)(1)(B) and under § 678.705), then, in accordance with § 678.745, the Governor must use the formula developed by the State WDB based on at least the factors required under § 678.745, and any associated weights to determine the local area budget.
§ 678.736
How does the Governor establish a cost allocation methodology used to determine the one-stop partner programs' proportionate shares of infrastructure costs under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
Once the appropriate budget is determined for a local area through either method described in § 678.735 (by acceptance of a budget agreed upon in local negotiation or by the Governor applying the formula detailed in § 678.745), the Governor must determine the appropriate cost allocation methodology to be applied to the one-stop partners in such local area, consistent with the Federal cost principles permitted under 2 CFR part 200, to fund the infrastructure budget.
§ 678.737
How are one-stop partner programs' proportionate shares of infrastructure costs determined under the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) The Governor must direct the one-stop partners in each local area that have not reached agreement under the local funding mechanism to pay what the Governor determines is each partner program's proportionate share of infrastructure funds for that area, subject to the application of the caps described in § 678.738.
(b)(1) The Governor must use the cost allocation methodology—as determined under § 678.736—to determine each partner's proportionate share of the infrastructure costs under the State funding mechanism, subject to considering the factors described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) In determining each partner program's proportionate share of infrastructure costs, the Governor must take into account the costs of administration of the one-stop delivery system for purposes not related to one-stop centers for each partner (such as costs associated with maintaining the Local WDB or information technology systems), as well as the statutory requirements for each partner program, the partner program's ability to fulfill such requirements, and all other applicable legal requirements. The Governor may also take into consideration the extent to which the partners in the local area have agreed in determining
the proportionate shares, including any agreements reached at the local level by one or more partners, as well as any other materials or documents of the negotiating process, which must be provided to the Governor by the Local WDB and described in § 678.735(a).
§ 678.738
How are statewide caps on the contributions for one-stop infrastructure funding determined in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) The Governor must calculate the statewide cap on the contributions for one-stop infrastructure funding required to be provided by each one-stop partner program for those local areas that have not reached agreement. The cap is the amount determined under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, which the Governor derives by:
(1) First, determining the amount resulting from applying the percentage for the corresponding one-stop partner program provided in paragraph (d) of this section to the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out the one-stop partner program in the State for the applicable fiscal year;
(2) Second, selecting a factor (or factors) that reasonably indicates the use of one-stop centers in the State, applying such factor(s) to all local areas in the State, and determining the percentage of such factor(s) applicable to the local areas that reached agreement under the local funding mechanism in the State;
(3) Third, determining the amount resulting from applying the percentage determined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to the amount determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the one-stop partner program; and
(4) Fourth, determining the amount that results from subtracting the amount determined under paragraph (a)(3) of this section from the amount determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The outcome of this final calculation results in the partner program's cap.
(b)(1) The Governor must ensure that the funds required to be contributed by each partner program in the local areas in the State under the State funding mechanism, in aggregate, do not exceed the statewide cap for each program as determined under paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the contributions initially determined under § 678.737 would exceed the applicable cap determined under paragraph (a) of this section, the Governor may:
(i) Ascertain if the one-stop partner whose contribution would otherwise exceed the cap determined under paragraph (a) of this section will voluntarily contribute above the capped amount, so that the total contributions equal that partner's proportionate share. The one-stop partner's contribution must still be consistent with the program's authorizing laws and regulations, the Federal cost principles in 2 CFR part 200, and other applicable legal requirements; or
(ii) Direct or allow the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners to: Re-enter negotiations, as necessary; reduce the infrastructure costs to reflect the amount of funds that are available for such costs without exceeding the cap levels; reassess the proportionate share of each one-stop partner; or identify alternative sources of financing for one-stop infrastructure funding, consistent with the requirement that each one-stop partner pay an amount that is consistent with the proportionate use of the one-stop center and relative benefit received by the partner, the program's authorizing laws and regulations, the Federal cost principles in 2 CFR part 200, and other applicable legal requirements.
(3) If applicable under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners, after renegotiation, may come to agreement, sign an MOU, and proceed under the local funding mechanism. Such actions do not require the redetermination of the applicable caps under paragraph (a) of this section.
(4) If, after renegotiation, agreement among partners still cannot be reached or alternate financing cannot be identified, the Governor may adjust the specified allocation, in accordance with the amounts available and the limitations
described in paragraph (d) of this section. In determining these adjustments, the Governor may take into account information relating to the renegotiation as well as the information described in § 678.735(a).
(c)
Limitations.
Subject to paragraph (a) of this section and in accordance with WIOA sec. 121(h)(2)(D), the following limitations apply to the Governor's calculations of the amount that one-stop partners in local areas that have not reached agreement under the local funding mechanism may be required under § 678.736 to contribute to one-stop infrastructure funding:
(1)
WIOA formula programs and Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service.
The portion of funds required to be contributed under the WIOA youth, adult, or dislocated worker programs, or under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
) must not exceed three percent of the amount of the program in the State for a program year.
(2)
Other one-stop partners.
For required one-stop partners other than those specified in paragraphs (c)(1), (3), (5), and (6) of this section, the portion of funds required to be contributed must not exceed 1.5 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out that program in the State for a fiscal year. For purposes of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, the cap on contributions is determined based on the funds made available by the State for postsecondary level programs and activities under sec. 132 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act and the amount of funds used by the State under sec. 112(a)(3) of the Perkins Act during the prior year to administer postsecondary level programs and activities, as applicable.
(3)
Vocational rehabilitation.
(i) Within a State, for the entity or entities administering the programs described in WIOA sec. 121(b)(1)(B)(iv) and § 678.400, the allotment is based on the one State Federal fiscal year allotment, even in instances where that allotment is shared between two State agencies, and the cumulative portion of funds required to be contributed must not exceed—
(A) 0.75 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2016 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2017;
(B) 1.0 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2017 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2018;
(C) 1.25 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2018 for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2019;
(D) 1.5 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for Fiscal Year 2019 and following years for purposes of applicability of the State funding mechanism for PY 2020 and subsequent years.
(ii) The limitations set forth in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section for any given fiscal year must be based on the final VR allotment to the State in the applicable Federal fiscal year.
(4)
Federal direct spending programs.
For local areas that have not reached a one-stop infrastructure funding agreement by consensus, an entity administering a program funded with direct Federal spending, as defined in sec. 250(c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as in effect on February 15, 2014 (2 U.S.C. 900(c)(8)), must not be required to provide more for infrastructure costs than the amount that the Governor determined (as described in § 678.737).
(5)
TANF programs.
For purposes of TANF, the cap on contributions is determined based on the total Federal TANF funds expended by the State for work, education, and training activities during the prior Federal fiscal year (as reported to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on the quarterly TANF Financial Report form), plus any additional amount of Federal TANF funds that the State TANF agency reasonably determines was expended for administrative costs in connection with these activities but that was separately reported to HHS as an administrative cost. The State's contribution to the one-stop infrastructure must not exceed 1.5 percent of these combined expenditures.
(6)
Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) programs.
For purposes of
CSBG, the cap on contributions will be based on the total amount of CSBG funds determined by the State to have been expended by local CSBG-eligible entities for the provision of employment and training activities during the prior Federal fiscal year for which information is available (as reported to HHS on the CSBG Annual Report) and any additional amount that the State CSBG agency reasonably determines was expended for administrative purposes in connection with these activities and was separately reported to HHS as an administrative cost. The State's contribution must not exceed 1.5 percent of these combined expenditures.
(d) For programs for which it is not otherwise feasible to determine the amount of Federal funding used by the program until the end of that program's operational year—because, for example, the funding available for education, employment, and training activities is included within funding for the program that may also be used for other unrelated activities—the determination of the Federal funds provided to carry out the program for a fiscal year under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be determined by:
(1) The percentage of Federal funds available to the one-stop partner program that were used by the one-stop partner program for education, employment, and training activities in the previous fiscal year for which data are available; and
(2) Applying the percentage determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the total amount of Federal funds available to the one-stop partner program for the fiscal year for which the determination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies.
§ 678.740
What funds are used to pay for infrastructure costs in the State one-stop infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) In the State funding mechanism, infrastructure costs for WIOA title I programs, including Native American Programs described in part 684 of this chapter, may be paid using program funds, administrative funds, or both. Infrastructure costs for the Senior Community Service Employment Program under title V of the Older Americans Act (42 U.S.C. 3056
et seq.
) may also be paid using program funds, administrative funds, or both.
(b) In the State funding mechanism, infrastructure costs for other required one-stop partner programs (listed in §§ 678.400 through 678.410) are limited to the program's administrative funds, as appropriate.
(c) In the State funding mechanism, infrastructure costs for the adult education program authorized by title II of WIOA must be paid from the funds that are available for local administration and may be paid from funds made available by the State or non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind, or third-party contributions.
(d) In the State funding mechanism, infrastructure costs for the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 must be paid from funds available for local administration of postsecondary level programs and activities to eligible recipients or consortia of eligible recipients and may be paid from funds made available by the State or non-Federal resources that are cash, in-kind, or third-party contributions.
§ 678.745
What factors does the State Workforce Development Board use to develop the formula described in Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, which is used by the Governor to determine the appropriate one-stop infrastructure budget for each local area operating under the State infrastructure funding mechanism, if no reasonably implementable locally negotiated budget exists?
The State WDB must develop a formula, as described in WIOA sec. 121(h)(3)(B), to be used by the Governor under § 678.735(b)(3) in determining the appropriate budget for the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers in the local areas that do not reach agreement under the local funding mechanism and are, therefore, subject to the State funding mechanism. The formula identifies the factors and corresponding weights for each factor that the Governor must use, which must include: The number of one-stop centers in a local area; the population served by such centers; the services provided
by such centers; and any factors relating to the operations of such centers in the local area that the State WDB determines are appropriate. As indicated in § 678.735(b)(1), if the local area has agreed on such a budget, the Governor may accept that budget in lieu of applying the formula factors.
§ 678.750
When and how can a one-stop partner appeal a one-stop infrastructure amount designated by the State under the State infrastructure funding mechanism?
(a) The Governor must establish a process, described under sec. 121(h)(2)(E) of WIOA, for a one-stop partner administering a program described in §§ 678.400 through 678.410 to appeal the Governor's determination regarding the one-stop partner's portion of funds to be provided for one-stop infrastructure costs. This appeal process must be described in the Unified State Plan.
(b) The appeal may be made on the ground that the Governor's determination is inconsistent with proportionate share requirements in § 678.735(a), the cost contribution limitations in § 678.735(b), the cost contribution caps in § 678.738, consistent with the process described in the State Plan.
(c) The process must ensure prompt resolution of the appeal in order to ensure the funds are distributed in a timely manner, consistent with the requirements of § 683.630 of this chapter.
(d) The one-stop partner must submit an appeal in accordance with State's deadlines for appeals specified in the guidance issued under § 678.705(b)(3), or if the State has not set a deadline, within 21 days from the Governor's determination.
§ 678.755
What are the required elements regarding infrastructure funding that must be included in the one-stop Memorandum of Understanding?
The MOU, fully described in § 678.500, must contain the following information whether the local areas use either the local one-stop or the State funding method:
(a) The period of time in which this infrastructure funding agreement is effective. This may be a different time period than the duration of the MOU.
(b) Identification of an infrastructure and shared services budget that will be periodically reconciled against actual costs incurred and adjusted accordingly to ensure that it reflects a cost allocation methodology that demonstrates how infrastructure costs are charged to each partner in proportion to its use of the one-stop center and relative benefit received, and that complies with 2 CFR part 200 (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
(c) Identification of all one-stop partners, chief elected officials, and Local WDB participating in the infrastructure funding arrangement.
(d) Steps the Local WDB, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners used to reach consensus or an assurance that the local area followed the guidance for the State funding process.
(e) Description of the process to be used among partners to resolve issues during the MOU duration period when consensus cannot be reached.
(f) Description of the periodic modification and review process to ensure equitable benefit among one-stop partners.
§ 678.760
How do one-stop partners jointly fund other shared costs under the Memorandum of Understanding?
(a) In addition to jointly funding infrastructure costs, one-stop partners listed in §§ 678.400 through 678.410 must use a portion of funds made available under their programs' authorizing Federal law (or fairly evaluated in-kind contributions) to pay the additional costs relating to the operation of the one-stop delivery system. These other costs must include applicable career services and may include other costs, including shared services.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, shared services' costs may include the costs of shared services that are authorized for and may be commonly provided through the one-stop partner programs to any individual, such as initial intake, assessment of needs, appraisal of basic skills, identification of appropriate services to meet such needs, referrals to other one-stop partners, and business services. Shared operating costs may also
include shared costs of the Local WDB's functions.
(c) Contributions to the additional costs related to operation of the one-stop delivery system may be cash, non-cash, or third-party in-kind contributions, consistent with how these are described in § 678.720(c).
(d) The shared costs described in paragraph (a) of this section must be allocated according to the proportion of benefit received by each of the partners, consistent with the Federal law authorizing the partner's program, and consistent with all other applicable legal requirements, including Federal cost principles in 2 CFR part 200 (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling) requiring that costs are allowable, reasonable, necessary, and allocable.
(e) Any shared costs agreed upon by the one-stop partners must be included in the MOU.

# Subpart F—One-Stop Certification
§ 678.800
How are one-stop centers and one-stop delivery systems certified for effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement?
(a) The State WDB, in consultation with chief elected officials and Local WDBs, must establish objective criteria and procedures for Local WDBs to use when certifying one-stop centers.
(1) The State WDB, in consultation with chief elected officials and Local WDBs, must review and update the criteria every 2 years as part of the review and modification of State Plans pursuant to § 676.135 of this chapter.
(2) The criteria must be consistent with the Governor's and State WDB's guidelines, guidance, and policies on infrastructure funding decisions, described in § 678.705. The criteria must evaluate the one-stop centers and one-stop delivery system for effectiveness, including customer satisfaction, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement.
(3) When the Local WDB is the one-stop operator as described in § 679.410 of this chapter, the State WDB must certify the one-stop center.
(b) Evaluations of effectiveness must include how well the one-stop center integrates available services for participants and businesses, meets the workforce development needs of participants and the employment needs of local employers, operates in a cost-efficient manner, coordinates services among the one-stop partner programs, and provides access to partner program services to the maximum extent practicable, including providing services outside of regular business hours where there is a workforce need, as identified by the Local WDB. These evaluations must take into account feedback from one-stop customers. They must also include evaluations of how well the one-stop center ensures equal opportunity for individuals with disabilities to participate in or benefit from one-stop center services. These evaluations must include criteria evaluating how well the centers and delivery systems take actions to comply with the disability-related regulations implementing WIOA sec. 188, set forth at 29 CFR part 38. Such actions include, but are not limited to:
(1) Providing reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities;
(2) Making reasonable modifications to policies, practices, and procedures where necessary to avoid discrimination against persons with disabilities;
(3) Administering programs in the most integrated setting appropriate;
(4) Communicating with persons with disabilities as effectively as with others;
(5) Providing appropriate auxiliary aids and services, including assistive technology devices and services, where necessary to afford individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, the program or activity; and
(6) Providing for the physical accessibility of the one-stop center to individuals with disabilities.
(c) Evaluations of continuous improvement must include how well the one-stop center supports the achievement of the negotiated local levels of performance for the indicators of performance for the local area described in sec. 116(b)(2) of WIOA and part 677 of this chapter. Other continuous improvement factors may include a regular process for identifying and responding to technical assistance needs,
a regular system of continuing professional staff development, and having systems in place to capture and respond to specific customer feedback.
(d) Local WDBs must assess at least once every 3 years the effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility, and continuous improvement of one-stop centers and the one-stop delivery systems using the criteria and procedures developed by the State WDB. The Local WDB may establish additional criteria, or set higher standards for service coordination, than those set by the State criteria. Local WDBs must review and update the criteria every 2 years as part of the Local Plan update process described in § 676.580 of this chapter. Local WDBs must certify one-stop centers in order to be eligible to use infrastructure funds in the State funding mechanism described in § 678.730.
(e) All one-stop centers must comply with applicable physical and programmatic accessibility requirements, as set forth in 29 CFR part 38, the implementing regulations of WIOA sec. 188.

# Subpart G—Common Identifier
§ 678.900
What is the common identifier to be used by each one-stop delivery system?
(a) The common one-stop delivery system identifier is “American Job Center.”
(b) As of November 17, 2016, each one-stop delivery system must include the “American Job Center” identifier or “a proud partner of the American Job Center network” on all primary electronic resources used by thONTENTS
e one-stop delivery system, and on any newly printed, purchased, or created materials.
(c) As of July 1, 2017, each one-stop delivery system must include the “American Job Center” identifier or “a proud partner of the American Job Center network” on all products, programs, activities, services, electronic resources, facilities, and related property and new materials used in the one-stop delivery system.
(d) One-stop partners, States, or local areas may use additional identifiers on their products, programs, activities, services, facilities, and related property and materials.
Pt. 679

# PART 679—STATEWIDE AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE OF THE WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—State Workforce Development Board
Sec.
679.100
What is the purpose of the State Workforce Development Board?
679.110
What is the State Workforce Development Board?
679.120
What is meant by the terms “optimum policy-making authority” and “demonstrated experience and expertise”?
679.130
What are the functions of the State Workforce Development Board?
679.140
How does the State Workforce Development Board meet its requirement to conduct business in an open manner under “sunshine provision” of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
679.150
Under what circumstances may the Governor select an alternative entity in place of the State Workforce Development Board?
679.160
Under what circumstances may the State Workforce Development Board hire staff?

# Subpart B—Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Local Governance (Workforce Development Areas)
679.200
What is the purpose of requiring States to identify regions?
679.210
What are the requirements for identifying a region?
679.220
What is the purpose of the local area?
679.230
What are the general procedural requirements for designation of local areas?
679.240
What are the substantive requirements for designation of local areas that were not designated as local areas under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998?
679.250
What are the requirements for initial and subsequent designation of workforce development areas that had been designated as local areas under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998?
679.260
What do the terms “performed successfully” and “sustained fiscal integrity” mean for purposes of designating local areas?
679.270
What are the special designation provisions for single-area States?
679.280
How does the State fulfill the requirement to provide assistance to local areas within a planning region that wish to redesignate into a single local area?
679.290
What right does an entity have to appeal the Governor's decision rejecting a request for designation as a workforce development area?

# Subpart C—Local Workforce Development Boards
679.300
What is the vision and purpose of the Local Workforce Development Board?
679.310
What is the Local Workforce Development Board?
679.320
Who are the required members of the Local Workforce Development Board?
679.330
Who must chair a Local Workforce Development Board?
679.340
What is meant by the terms “optimum policy-making authority” and “demonstrated experience and expertise”?
679.350
What criteria will be used to establish the membership of the Local Workforce Development Board?
679.360
What is a standing committee, and what is its relationship to the Local Workforce Development Board?
679.370
What are the functions of the Local Workforce Development Board?
679.380
How does the Local Workforce Development Board satisfy the consumer choice requirements for career services and training services?
679.390
How does the Local Workforce Development Board meet its requirement to conduct business in an open manner under the “sunshine provision” of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
679.400
Who are the staff to the Local Workforce Development Board and what is their role?
679.410
Under what conditions may a Local Workforce Development Board directly be a provider of career services, or training services, or act as a one-stop operator?
679.420
What are the functions of the local fiscal agent?
679.430
How do entities performing multiple functions in a local area demonstrate internal controls and prevent conflict of interest?

# Subpart D—Regional and Local Plan
679.500
What is the purpose of the regional and local plan?
679.510
What are the requirements for regional planning?
679.520
What are the requirements for approval of a regional plan?
679.530
When must the regional plan be modified?
679.540
How are local planning requirements reflected in a regional plan?
679.550
What are the requirements for the development of the local plan?
679.560
What are the contents of the local plan?
679.570
What are the requirements for approval of a local plan?
679.580
When must the local plan be modified?

# Subpart E—Waivers/WorkFlex (Workforce Flexibility Plan)
679.600
What is the purpose of the general statutory and regulatory waiver authority in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
679.610
What provisions of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act may be waived, and what provisions may not be waived?
679.620
Under what conditions may a Governor request, and the Secretary approve, a general waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
679.630
Under what conditions may the Governor submit a workforce flexibility plan?
679.640
What limitations apply to the State's workforce flexibility plan authority under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

# Authority:
Secs. 101, 106, 107, 108, 189, 503, Public Law 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56371, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—State Workforce Development Board
§ 679.100
What is the purpose of the State Workforce Development Board?
The purpose of the State Workforce Development Board (WDB) is to convene State, regional, and local workforce system and partners, to—
(a) Enhance the capacity and performance of the workforce development system;
(b) Align and improve the outcomes and effectiveness of Federally-funded and other workforce programs and investments; and
(c) Through these efforts, promote economic growth.
(d) Engage public workforce system representatives, including businesses, education providers, economic development, labor representatives, and other
stakeholders to help the workforce development system achieve the purpose of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA); and
(e) Assist to achieve the State's strategic and operational vision and goals as outlined in the State Plan.
§ 679.110
What is the State Workforce Development Board?
(a) The State WDB is a board established by the Governor in accordance with the requirements of WIOA sec. 101 and this section.
(b) The membership of the State WDB must meet the requirements of WIOA sec. 101(b) and must represent diverse geographic areas of the State, including urban, rural, and suburban areas. The WDB membership must include:
(1) The Governor;
(2) A member of each chamber of the State legislature, appointed by the appropriate presiding officers of such chamber, as appropriate under State law; and
(3) Members appointed by the Governor, which must include:
(i) A majority of representatives of businesses or organizations in the State who:
(A) Are the owner or chief executive officer for the business or organization, or is an executive with the business or organization with optimum policy-making or hiring authority, and also may be members of a Local WDB as described in WIOA sec. 107(b)(2)(A)(i);
(B) Represent businesses, or organizations that represent businesses described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, that, at a minimum, provide employment and training opportunities that include high-quality, work-relevant training and development in in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the State; and
(C) Are appointed from a list of potential members nominated by State business organizations and business trade associations; and
(D) At a minimum, one member representing small businesses as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration.
(ii) Not less than 20 percent who are representatives of the workforce within the State, which:
(A) Must include two or more representatives of labor organizations nominated by State labor federations;
(B) Must include one representative who must be a member of a labor organization or training director from a joint labor-management registered apprenticeship program, or, if no such joint program exists in the State, a member of a labor organization or training director who is a representative of an registered apprenticeship program;
(C) May include one or more representatives of community-based organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the employment, training, or education needs of individuals with barriers to employment, including organizations that serve veterans or provide or support competitive, integrated employment for individuals with disabilities; and
(D) May include one or more representatives of organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the employment, training, or education needs of eligible youth, including representatives of organizations that serve out-of-school youth.
(iii) The balance of the members:
(A) Must include representatives of the Government including:
(
1
) The lead State officials with primary responsibility for the following core programs—
(
i
) The adult, dislocated worker, and youth programs authorized under title I of WIOA and the Wagner-Peyser Act;
(
ii
) The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act (AEFLA) program authorized under title II of WIOA; and
(
iii
) The State Vocational Rehabilitation (VR) program authorized under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by title IV of WIOA.
(
iv
) Where the lead official represents more than one core program, that official must ensure adequate representation of the needs of all core programs under his or her jurisdiction.
(
2
) Two or more chief elected officials (collectively representing both cities and counties, where appropriate).
(B) May include other appropriate representatives and officials designated
by the Governor, such as, but not limited to, State agency officials responsible for one-stop partner programs, economic development or juvenile justice programs in the State, individuals who represent an Indian tribe or tribal organization as defined in WIOA sec. 166(b), and State agency officials responsible for education programs in the State, including chief executive officers of community colleges and other institutions of higher education.
(c) The Governor must select a chairperson for the State WDB from the business representatives on the WDB described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section).
(d) The Governor must establish by-laws that at a minimum address:
(1) The nomination process used by the Governor to select the State WDB chair and members;
(2) The term limitations and how the term appointments will be staggered to ensure only a portion of membership expire in a given year;
(3) The process to notify the Governor of a WDB member vacancy to ensure a prompt nominee;
(4) The proxy and alternative designee process that will be used when a WDB member is unable to attend a meeting and assigns a designee as per the following requirements:
(i) If the alternative designee is a business representative, he or she must have optimum policy-making hiring authority.
(ii) Other alternative designees must have demonstrated experience and expertise and optimum policy-making authority.
(5) The use of technology, such as phone and Web-based meetings, that must be used to promote WDB member participation;
(6) The process to ensure members actively participate in convening the workforce development system's stakeholders, brokering relationships with a diverse range of employers, and leveraging support for workforce development activities; and
(7) Other conditions governing appointment or membership on the State WDB as deemed appropriate by the Governor.
(e) Members who represent organizations, agencies or other entities described in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) through (iii) of this section must be individuals who have optimum policy-making authority in the organization or for the core program that they represent.
(f)(1) A State WDB member may not represent more than one of the categories described in:
(i) Paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section (business representatives);
(ii) Paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section (workforce representatives); or
(iii) Paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section (government representatives).
(2) A State WDB member may not serve as a representative of more than one subcategory under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(3) A State WDB member may not serve as a representative of more than one subcategory under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, except that where a single government agency is responsible for multiple required programs, the head of the agency may represent each of the required programs.
(g) All required WDB members must have voting privileges. The Governor also may convey voting privileges to non-required members.
§ 679.120
What is meant by the terms “optimum policy-making authority” and “demonstrated experience and expertise”?
For purposes of § 679.110:
(a) A representative with “optimum policy-making authority” is an individual who can reasonably be expected to speak affirmatively on behalf of the entity he or she represents and to commit that entity to a chosen course of action.
(b) A representative with “demonstrated experience and expertise” means an individual with documented leadership in developing or implementing workforce development, human resources, training and development, or a core program function. Demonstrated experience and expertise may include individuals with experience in education or training of job seekers with barriers to employment as described in § 679.110(b)(3)(ii)(C) and (D).
§ 679.130
What are the functions of the State Workforce Development Board?
Under WIOA sec. 101(d), the State WDB must assist the Governor in the:
(a) Development, implementation, and modification of the 4-year State Plan;
(b) Review of statewide policies, programs, and recommendations on actions that must be taken by the State to align workforce development programs to support a comprehensive and streamlined workforce development system. Such review of policies, programs, and recommendations must include a review and provision of comments on the State Plans, if any, for programs and activities of one-stop partners that are not core programs;
(c) Development and continuous improvement of the workforce development system, including—
(1) Identification of barriers and means for removing barriers to better coordinate, align, and avoid duplication among programs and activities;
(2) Development of strategies to support career pathways for the purpose of providing individuals, including low-skilled adults, youth, and individuals with barriers to employment, including individuals with disabilities, with workforce investment activities, education, and supportive services to enter or retain employment;
(3) Development of strategies to provide effective outreach to and improved access for individuals and employers who could benefit from workforce development system;
(4) Development and expansion of strategies to meet the needs of employers, workers, and job seekers particularly through industry or sector partnerships related to in-demand industry sectors and occupations;
(5) Identification of regions, including planning regions for the purposes of WIOA sec. 106(a), and the designation of local areas under WIOA sec. 106, after consultation with Local WDBs and chief elected officials;
(6) Development and continuous improvement of the one-stop delivery system in local areas, including providing assistance to Local WDBs, one-stop operators, one-stop partners, and providers. Such assistance includes assistance with planning and delivering services, including training and supportive services, to support effective delivery of services to workers, job seekers, and employers; and
(7) Development of strategies to support staff training and awareness across the workforce development system and its programs;
(d) Development and updating of comprehensive State performance and accountability measures to assess core program effectiveness under WIOA sec. 116(b);
(e) Identification and dissemination of information on best practices, including best practices for—
(1) The effective operation of one-stop centers, relating to the use of business outreach, partnerships, and service delivery strategies, including strategies for serving individuals with barriers to employment;
(2) The development of effective Local WDBs, which may include information on factors that contribute to enabling Local WDBs to exceed negotiated local levels of performance, sustain fiscal integrity, and achieve other measures of effectiveness; and
(3) Effective training programs that respond to real-time labor market analysis, that effectively use direct assessment and prior learning assessment to measure an individual's prior knowledge, skills, competencies, and experiences for adaptability, to support efficient placement into employment or career pathways;
(f) Development and review of statewide policies affecting the coordinated provision of services through the State's one-stop delivery system described in WIOA sec. 121(e), including the development of—
(1) Objective criteria and procedures for use by Local WDBs in assessing the effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility and continuous improvement of one-stop centers. Where a Local WDB serves as the one-stop operator, the State WDB must use such criteria to assess and certify the one-stop center;
(2) Guidance for the allocation of one-stop center infrastructure funds under WIOA sec. 121(h); and
(3) Policies relating to the appropriate roles and contributions of entities carrying out one-stop partner programs within the one-stop delivery system, including approaches to facilitating equitable and efficient cost allocation in the system;
(g) Development of strategies for technological improvements to facilitate access to, and improve the quality of services and activities provided through the one-stop delivery system, including such improvements to—
(1) Enhance digital literacy skills (as defined in sec. 202 of the Museum and Library Service Act, 20 U.S.C. 9101);
(2) Accelerate acquisition of skills and recognized postsecondary credentials by participants;
(3) Strengthen professional development of providers and workforce professionals; and
(4) Ensure technology is accessible to individuals with disabilities and individuals residing in remote areas;
(h) Development of strategies for aligning technology and data systems across one-stop partner programs to enhance service delivery and improve efficiencies in reporting on performance accountability measures, including design implementation of common intake, data collection, case management information, and performance accountability measurement and reporting processes and the incorporation of local input into such design and implementation to improve coordination of services across one-stop partner programs;
(i) Development of allocation formulas for the distribution of funds for employment and training activities for adults and youth workforce investment activities, to local areas as permitted under WIOA secs. 128(b)(3) and 133(b)(3);
(j) Preparation of the annual reports described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of WIOA sec. 116(d);
(k) Development of the statewide workforce and labor market information system described in sec. 15(e) of the Wagner-Peyser Act; and
(l) Development of other policies as may promote statewide objectives for and enhance the performance of the workforce development system in the State.
§ 679.140
How does the State Workforce Development Board meet its requirement to conduct business in an open manner under the “sunshine provision” of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) The State WDB must conduct business in an open manner as required by WIOA sec. 101(g).
(b) The State WDB must make available to the public, on a regular basis through electronic means and open meetings, information about the activities and functions of the State WDB, including:
(1) The State Plan, or modification to the State Plan, prior to submission of the State Plan or modification of the State Plan;
(2) Information regarding membership;
(3) Minutes of formal meetings of the State WDB upon request;
(4) State WDB by-laws as described at § 679.110(d).
§ 679.150
Under what circumstances may the Governor select an alternative entity in place of the State Workforce Development Board?
(a) The State may use any State entity that meets the requirements of WIOA sec. 101(e) to perform the functions of the State WDB. This may include:
(1) A State council;
(2) A State WDB within the meaning of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of WIOA; or
(3) A combination of regional WDBs or similar entity.
(b) If the State uses an alternative entity, the State Plan must demonstrate that the alternative entity meets all three of the requirements of WIOA sec. 101(e)(1):
(1) Was in existence on the day before the date of enactment of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (WIA);
(2) Is substantially similar to the State WDB described in WIOA secs. 101(a)-(c) and § 679.110; and
(3) Includes representatives of business and labor organizations in the State.
(c) If the alternative entity does not provide representatives for each of the categories required under WIOA sec. 101(b), the State Plan must explain the
manner in which the State will ensure an ongoing role for any unrepresented membership group in the workforce development system. The State WDB must maintain an ongoing and meaningful role for an unrepresented membership group, including entities carrying out the core programs, by such methods as:
(1) Regularly scheduled consultations with entities within the unrepresented membership groups;
(2) Providing an opportunity for input into the State Plan or other policy development by unrepresented membership groups; and
(3) Establishing an advisory committee of unrepresented membership groups.
(d) In parts 675 through 687 of this chapter, all references to the State WDB also apply to an alternative entity used by a State.
§ 679.160
Under what circumstances may the State Workforce Development Board hire staff?
(a) The State WDB may hire a director and other staff to assist in carrying out the functions described in WIOA sec. 101(d) and § 679.130 using funds described in WIOA sec. 129(b)(3) or sec. 134(a)(3)(B)(i).
(b) The State WDB must establish and apply a set of objective qualifications for the position of director that ensures the individual selected has the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities to meet identified benchmarks and to assist in effectively carrying out the functions of the State WDB.
(c) The director and staff must be subject to the limitations on the payment of salary and bonuses described in WIOA sec. 194(15).

# Subpart B—Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Local Governance (Workforce Development Areas)
§ 679.200
What is the purpose of requiring States to identify regions?
The purpose of identifying regions is to align workforce development activities and resources with larger regional economic development areas and available resources to provide coordinated and efficient services to both job seekers and employers.
§ 679.210
What are the requirements for identifying a region?
(a) The Governor must assign local areas to a region prior to submission of the State Unified or Combined Plan, in order for the State to receive WIOA title I, subtitle B adult, dislocated worker, and youth allotments.
(b) The Governor must develop a policy and process for identifying regions. Such policy must include:
(1) Consultation with the Local WDBs and chief elected officials (CEOs) in the local area(s) as required in WIOA sec. 102(b)(2)(D)(i)(II) and WIOA sec. 106(a)(1); and
(2) Consideration of the extent to which the local areas in a proposed region:
(i) Share a single labor market;
(ii) Share a common economic development area; and
(iii) Possess the Federal and non-Federal resources, including appropriate education and training institutions, to administer activities under WIOA subtitle B.
(c) In addition to the required criteria described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, other factors the Governor also may consider include:
(1) Population centers;
(2) Commuting patterns;
(3) Land ownership;
(4) Industrial composition;
(5) Location quotients;
(6) Labor force conditions;
(7) Geographic boundaries; and
(8) Additional factors as determined by the Secretary.
(d) Regions must consist of:
(1) One local area;
(2) Two or more contiguous local areas in a single State; or
(3) Two or more contiguous local areas in two or more States.
(e) Planning regions are those regions described in paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section. Planning regions are subject to the regional planning requirements in § 679.510.
§ 679.220
What is the purpose of the local area?
(a) The purpose of a local area is to serve as a jurisdiction for the administration of workforce development activities and execution of adult, dislocated worker, and youth funds allocated by the State. Such areas may be aligned with a region identified in WIOA sec. 106(a)(1) or may be components of a planning region, each with its own Local WDB. Also, significantly, local areas are the areas within which Local WDBs oversee their functions, including strategic planning, operational alignment and service delivery design, and a jurisdiction where partners align resources at a sub-State level to design and implement overall service delivery strategies.
(b) The Governor must designate local areas (local areas) in order for the State to receive adult, dislocated worker, and youth funding under title I, subtitle B of WIOA.
§ 679.230
What are the general procedural requirements for designation of local areas?
As part of the process of designating or redesignating a local area, the Governor must develop a policy for designation of local areas that must include:
(a) Consultation with the State WDB;
(b) Consultation with the chief elected officials and affected Local WDBs; and
(c) Consideration of comments received through a public comment process which must:
(1) Offer adequate time for public comment prior to designation of the local area; and
(2) Provide an opportunity for comment by representatives of Local WDBs, chief elected officials, businesses, institutions of higher education, labor organizations, other primary stakeholders, and the general public regarding the designation of the local area.
§ 679.240
What are the substantive requirements for designation of local areas that were not designated as local areas under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998?
(a) Except as provided in § 679.250, the Governor may designate or redesignate a local area in accordance with policies and procedures developed by the Governor, which must include at a minimum consideration of the extent to which the proposed area:
(1) Is consistent with local labor market areas;
(2) Has a common economic development area; and
(3) Has the Federal and non-Federal resources, including appropriate education and training institutions, to administer activities under WIOA subtitle B.
(b) The Governor may approve a request at any time for designation as a workforce development area from any unit of general local government, including a combination of such units, if the State WDB determines that the area meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section and recommends designation.
(c) Regardless of whether a local area has been designated under this section or § 679.250, the Governor may redesignate a local area if the redesignation has been requested by a local area and the Governor approves the request.
§ 679.250
What are the requirements for initial and subsequent designation of workforce development areas that had been designated as local areas under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998?
(a) If the chief elected official and Local WDB in a local area submits a request for initial designation, the Governor must approve the request if, for the 2 program years preceding the date of enactment of WIOA, the following criteria are met:
(1) The local area was designated as a local area for purposes of WIA;
(2) The local area performed successfully; and
(3) The local area sustained fiscal integrity.
(b) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, after the period of initial designation, if the chief elected official and Local WDB in a local area submits
a request for subsequent designation, the Governor must approve the request if the following criteria are met for the 2 most recent program years of initial designation:
(1) The local area performed successfully;
(2) The local area sustained fiscal integrity; and
(3) In the case of a local area in a planning region, the local area met the regional planning requirements described in WIOA sec. 106(c)(1).
(c) No determination of subsequent eligibility may be made before the conclusion of Program Year (PY) 2017.
(d) The Governor:
(1) May review a local area designated under paragraph (b) of this section at any time to evaluate whether that the area continues to meet the requirements for subsequent designation under that paragraph; and
(2) Must review a local area designated under paragraph (b) of this section before submitting its State Plan during each 4-year State planning cycle to evaluate whether the area continues to meet the requirements for subsequent designation under that paragraph.
(e) For purposes of subsequent designation under paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, the local area and chief elected official must be considered to have requested continued designation unless the local area and chief elected official notify the Governor that they no longer seek designation.
(f) Local areas designated under § 679.240 or States designated as single-area States under § 679.270 are not subject to the requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section related to the subsequent designation of a local area.
(g) The Governor may approve, under paragraph (c) of this section, a request for designation as a local area from areas served by rural concentrated employment programs as described in WIOA sec. 107(c)(1)(C).
§ 679.260
What do the terms “performed successfully” and “sustained fiscal integrity” mean for purposes of designating local areas?
(a) For the purpose of initial local area designation, the term “performed successfully” means that the local area met or exceeded the levels of performance the Governor negotiated with the Local WDB and chief elected official under WIA sec. 136(c) for the last 2 full program years before the enactment of WIOA, and that the local area has not failed any individual measure for the last 2 consecutive program years before the enactment of WIOA.
(b) For the purpose of determining subsequent local area designation, the term “performed successfully” means that the local area met or exceeded the levels of performance the Governor negotiated with the Local WDB and chief elected official for core indicators of performance as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section as appropriate, and that the local area has not failed any individual measure for the last 2 consecutive program years in accordance with a State-established definition, provided in the State Plan, of met or exceeded performance.
(1) For subsequent designation determinations made at the conclusion of PY 2017, a finding of whether a local area performed successfully must be limited to having met or exceeded the negotiated levels for the Employment Rate 2nd Quarter after Exit and the Median Earnings indicators of performance, as described at § 677.155(a)(1)(i) and (iii) of this chapter respectively, for PY 2016 and PY 2017.
(2) For subsequent designation determinations made at the conclusion of PY 2018, or at any point thereafter, a finding of whether a local area performed successfully must be based on all six of the WIOA indicators of performance as described at § 677.155(a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this chapter for the 2 most recently completed program years.
(c) For the purpose of determining initial and subsequent local area designation under § 679.250(a) and (b), the term “sustained fiscal integrity” means that the Secretary has not made a formal determination that either the grant recipient or the administrative entity of the area misexpended funds due to willful disregard of the requirements of the provision involved, gross negligence, or failure to comply with accepted standards of administration for the 2-year period preceding the determination.
§ 679.270
What are the special designation provisions for single-area States?
(a) The Governor of any State that was a single-State local area under the WIA as in effect on July 1, 2013 may designate the State as a single-State local area under WIOA.
(b) The Governor of a State local area under paragraph (a) of this section who seeks to designate the State as a single-State local area under WIOA must:
(1) Identify the State as a single-area State in the Unified or Combined State Plan; and
(2) Include the local plan for approval as part of the Unified or Combined State Plan.
(c) The State WDB for a single-area State must act as the Local WDB and carry out the functions of the Local WDB in accordance with WIOA sec. 107 and § 679.370, except that the State is not required to meet and report on a set of local performance accountability measures.
(d) Single-area States must conduct the functions of the Local WDB as outlined in paragraph (c) of this section to achieve the incorporation of local interests but may do so in a manner that reduces unnecessary burden and duplication of processes.
(e) States must carry out the duties of State and Local WDBs in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary of Labor.
§ 679.280
How does the State fulfill the requirement to provide assistance to local areas within a planning region that wish to redesignate into a single local area?
(a) When the chief elected officials and Local WDBs of each local area within a planning region make a request to the Governor to redesignate into a single local area, the State WDB must authorize statewide adult, dislocated worker, and youth program funds to facilitate such redesignation.
(b) When statewide funds are not available, the State may provide funds for redesignation in the next available program year.
(c) Redesignation activities that may be carried out by the local areas include:
(1) Convening sessions and conferences;
(2) Renegotiation of contracts and agreements; and
(3) Other activities directly associated with the redesignation as deemed appropriate by the State WDB.
§ 679.290
What right does an entity have to appeal the Governor's decision rejecting a request for designation as a workforce development area?
(a) A unit of local government (or combination of units) or a local area which has requested but has been denied its request for designation as a workforce development area under § 679.250 may appeal the decision to the State WDB, in accordance with appeal procedures established in the State Plan and § 683.630(a) of this chapter.
(b) If a decision on the appeal is not rendered in a timely manner or if the appeal to the State WDB does not result in designation, the entity may request review by the Secretary of Labor, under the procedures set forth at § 683.640 of this chapter.

# Subpart C—Local Workforce Development Boards
§ 679.300
What is the vision and purpose of the Local Workforce Development Board?
(a) The vision for the Local WDB is to serve as a strategic leader and convener of local workforce development system stakeholders. The Local WDB partners with employers and the workforce development system to develop policies and investments that support public workforce system strategies that support regional economies, the development of effective approaches including local and regional sector partnerships and career pathways, and high quality, customer centered service delivery and service delivery approaches;
(b) The purpose of the Local WDB is to—
(1) Provide strategic and operational oversight in collaboration with the required and additional partners and workforce stakeholders to help develop a comprehensive and high-quality workforce development system in the local area and larger planning region;
(2) Assist in the achievement of the State's strategic and operational vision and goals as outlined in the Unified State Plan or Combined State Plan; and
(3) Maximize and continue to improve the quality of services, customer satisfaction, effectiveness of the services provided.
§ 679.310
What is the Local Workforce Development Board?
(a) The Local WDB is appointed by the chief elected official(s) in each local area in accordance with State criteria established under WIOA sec. 107(b), and is certified by the Governor every 2 years, in accordance with WIOA sec. 107(c)(2).
(b) In partnership with the chief elected official(s), the Local WDB sets policy for the portion of the statewide workforce development system within the local area and consistent with State policies.
(c) The Local WDB and the chief elected official(s) may enter into an agreement that describes the respective roles and responsibilities of the parties.
(d) The Local WDB, in partnership with the chief elected official(s), develops the local plan and performs the functions described in WIOA sec. 107(d) and § 679.370.
(e) If a local area includes more than one unit of general local government in accordance with WIOA sec. 107(c)(1)(B), the chief elected officials of such units may execute an agreement to describe their responsibilities for carrying out the roles and responsibilities. If the chief elected officials are unable to reach agreement after a reasonable effort, the Governor may appoint the members of the Local WDB from individuals nominated or recommended as specified in WIOA sec. 107(b).
(f) If the State Plan indicates that the State will be treated as a local area under WIOA, the State WDB must carry out the roles of the Local WDB in accordance with WIOA sec. 107, except that the State is not required to meet and report on a set of local performance accountability measures.
(g) The CEO must establish by-laws, consistent with State policy for Local WDB membership, that at a minimum address:
(1) The nomination process used by the CEO to select the Local WDB chair and members;
(2) The term limitations and how the term appointments will be staggered to ensure only a portion of membership expire in a given year;
(3) The process to notify the CEO of a WDB member vacancy to ensure a prompt nominee;
(4) The proxy and alternative designee process that will be used when a WDB member is unable to attend a meeting and assigns a designee as per the requirements at § 679.110(d)(4);
(5) The use of technology, such as phone and Web-based meetings, that will be used to promote WDB member participation;
(6) The process to ensure WDB members actively participate in convening the workforce development system's stakeholders, brokering relationships with a diverse range of employers, and leveraging support for workforce development activities; and
(7) A description of any other conditions governing appointment or membership on the Local WDB as deemed appropriate by the CEO.
§ 679.320
Who are the required members of the Local Workforce Development Board?
(a) For each local area in the State, the members of Local WDB must be selected by the chief elected official consistent with criteria established under WIOA sec. 107(b)(1) and criteria established by the Governor, and must meet the requirements of WIOA sec. 107(b)(2).
(b) A majority of the members of the Local WDB must be representatives of business in the local area. At a minimum, two members must represent small business as defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Business representatives serving on Local WDBs also may serve on the State WDB. Each business representative must meet the following criteria:
(1) Be an owner, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, or other individual with optimum policy-making or hiring authority; and
(2) Provide employment opportunities in in-demand industry sectors or
occupations, as those terms are defined in WIOA sec. 3(23).
(c) At least 20 percent of the members of the Local WDB must be workforce representatives. These representatives:
(1) Must include two or more representatives of labor organizations, where such organizations exist in the local area. Where labor organizations do not exist, representatives must be selected from other employee representatives;
(2) Must include one or more representatives of a joint labor-management, or union affiliated, registered apprenticeship program within the area who must be a training director or a member of a labor organization. If no union affiliated registered apprenticeship programs exist in the area, a representative of a registered apprenticeship program with no union affiliation must be appointed, if one exists;
(3) May include one or more representatives of community-based organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the employment, training or education needs of individuals with barriers to employment, including organizations that serve veterans or provide or support competitive integrated employment for individuals with disabilities; and
(4) May include one or more representatives of organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the employment, training, or education needs of eligible youth, including representatives of organizations that serve out-of-school youth.
(d) The Local WDB also must include:
(1) At least one eligible training provider administering adult education and literacy activities under WIOA title II;
(2) At least one representative from an institution of higher education providing workforce investment activities, including community colleges; and
(3) At least one representative from each of the following governmental and economic and community development entities:
(i) Economic and community development entities;
(ii) The State Employment Service office under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
) serving the local area; and
(iii) The programs carried out under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, other than sec. 112 or part C of that title;
(e) The membership of Local WDBs may include individuals or representatives of other appropriate entities in the local area, including:
(1) Entities administering education and training activities who represent local educational agencies or community-based organizations with demonstrated expertise in addressing the education or training needs for individuals with barriers to employment;
(2) Governmental and economic and community development entities who represent transportation, housing, and public assistance programs;
(3) Philanthropic organizations serving the local area; and
(4) Other appropriate individuals as determined by the chief elected official.
(f) Members must be individuals with optimum policy-making authority within the entities they represent.
(g) Chief elected officials must establish a formal nomination and appointment process, consistent with the criteria established by the Governor and State WDB under sec. 107(b)(1) of WIOA for appointment of members of the Local WDBs, that ensures:
(1) Business representatives are appointed from among individuals who are nominated by local business organizations and business trade associations;
(2) Labor representatives are appointed from among individuals who are nominated by local labor federations (or, for a local area in which no employees are represented by such organizations, other representatives of employees); and
(3) When there is more than one local area provider of adult education and literacy activities under title II, or multiple institutions of higher education providing workforce investment activities as described in WIOA sec. 107(b)(2)(C)(i) or (ii), nominations are solicited from those particular entities.
(h) An individual may be appointed as a representative of more than one entity if the individual meets all the criteria for representation, including the criteria described in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, for each entity.
(i) All required WDB members must have voting privilege. The chief elected official may convey voting privileges to non-required members.
§ 679.330
Who must chair a Local Workforce Development Board?
The Local WDB must elect a chairperson from among the business representatives on the WDB.
§ 679.340
What is meant by the terms “optimum policy-making authority” and “demonstrated experience and expertise”?
For purposes of selecting representatives to Local WDBs:
(a) A representative with “optimum policy-making authority” is an individual who can reasonably be expected to speak affirmatively on behalf of the entity he or she represents and to commit that entity to a chosen course of action.
(b) A representative with “demonstrated experience and expertise” means an individual who:
(1) Is a workplace learning advisor as defined in WIOA sec. 3(70);
(2) Contributes to the field of workforce development, human resources, training and development, or a core program function; or
(3) The Local WDB recognizes for valuable contributions in education or workforce development related fields.
§ 679.350
What criteria will be used to establish the membership of the Local Workforce Development Board?
The Local WDB is appointed by the chief elected official(s) in the local area in accordance with State criteria established under WIOA sec. 107(b), and is certified by the Governor every 2 years, in accordance with WIOA sec. 107(c)(2).
§ 679.360
What is a standing committee, and what is its relationship to the Local Workforce Development Board?
(a) Standing committees may be established by the Local WDB to provide information and assist the Local WDB in carrying out its responsibilities under WIOA sec. 107. Standing committees must be chaired by a member of the Local WDB, may include other members of the Local WDB, and must include other individuals appointed by the Local WDB who are not members of the Local WDB and who have demonstrated experience and expertise in accordance with § 679.340(b) and as determined by the Local WDB. Standing committees may include each of the following:
(1) A standing committee to provide information and assist with operational and other issues relating to the one-stop delivery system, which may include representatives of the one-stop partners.
(2) A standing committee to provide information and to assist with planning, operational, and other issues relating to the provision of services to youth, which must include community-based organizations with a demonstrated record of success in serving eligible youth.
(3) A standing committee to provide information and to assist with operational and other issues relating to the provision of services to individuals with disabilities, including issues relating to compliance with WIOA sec. 188, if applicable, and applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
) regarding providing programmatic and physical access to the services, programs, and activities of the one-stop delivery system, as well as appropriate training for staff on providing supports for or accommodations to, and finding employment opportunities for, individuals with disabilities.
(b) The Local WDB may designate other standing committees in addition to those specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Local WDBs may designate an entity in existence as of the date of the
enactment of WIOA, such as an effective youth council, to serve as a standing committee as long as the entity meets the requirements of WIOA sec. 107(b)(4).
§ 679.370
What are the functions of the Local Workforce Development Board?
As provided in WIOA sec. 107(d), the Local WDB must:
(a) Develop and submit a 4-year local plan for the local area, in partnership with the chief elected official and consistent with WIOA sec. 108;
(b) If the local area is part of a planning region that includes other local areas, develop and submit a regional plan in collaboration with other local areas. If the local area is part of a planning region, the local plan must be submitted as a part of the regional plan;
(c) Conduct workforce research and regional labor market analysis to include:
(1) Analyses and regular updates of economic conditions, needed knowledge and skills, workforce, and workforce development (including education and training) activities to include an analysis of the strengths and weaknesses (including the capacity to provide) of such services to address the identified education and skill needs of the workforce and the employment needs of employers;
(2) Assistance to the Governor in developing the statewide workforce and labor market information system under the Wagner-Peyser Act for the region; and
(3) Other research, data collection, and analysis related to the workforce needs of the regional economy as the WDB, after receiving input from a wide array of stakeholders, determines to be necessary to carry out its functions;
(d) Convene local workforce development system stakeholders to assist in the development of the local plan under § 679.550 and in identifying non-Federal expertise and resources to leverage support for workforce development activities. Such stakeholders may assist the Local WDB and standing committees in carrying out convening, brokering, and leveraging functions at the direction of the Local WDB;
(e) Lead efforts to engage with a diverse range of employers and other entities in the region in order to:
(1) Promote business representation (particularly representatives with optimum policy-making or hiring authority from employers whose employment opportunities reflect existing and emerging employment opportunities in the region) on the Local WDB;
(2) Develop effective linkages (including the use of intermediaries) with employers in the region to support employer utilization of the local workforce development system and to support local workforce investment activities;
(3) Ensure that workforce investment activities meet the needs of employers and support economic growth in the region by enhancing communication, coordination, and collaboration among employers, economic development entities, and service providers; and
(4) Develop and implement proven or promising strategies for meeting the employment and skill needs of workers and employers (such as the establishment of industry and sector partnerships), that provide the skilled workforce needed by employers in the region, and that expand employment and career advancement opportunities for workforce development system participants in in-demand industry sectors or occupations;
(f) With representatives of secondary and postsecondary education programs, lead efforts to develop and implement career pathways within the local area by aligning the employment, training, education, and supportive services that are needed by adults and youth, particularly individuals with barriers to employment;
(g) Lead efforts in the local area to identify and promote proven and promising strategies and initiatives for meeting the needs of employers, workers and job seekers, and identify and disseminate information on proven and promising practices carried out in other local areas for meeting such needs;
(h) Develop strategies for using technology to maximize the accessibility and effectiveness of the local workforce development system for employers, and workers and job seekers, by:
(1) Facilitating connections among the intake and case management information systems of the one-stop partner programs to support a comprehensive workforce development system in the local area;
(2) Facilitating access to services provided through the one-stop delivery system involved, including access in remote areas;
(3) Identifying strategies for better meeting the needs of individuals with barriers to employment, including strategies that augment traditional service delivery, and increase access to services and programs of the one-stop delivery system, such as improving digital literacy skills; and
(4) Leveraging resources and capacity within the local workforce development system, including resources and capacity for services for individuals with barriers to employment;
(i) In partnership with the chief elected official for the local area:
(1) Conduct oversight of youth workforce investment activities authorized under WIOA sec. 129(c), adult and dislocated worker employment and training activities under WIOA secs. 134(c) and (d), and the entire one-stop delivery system in the local area;
(2) Ensure the appropriate use and management of the funds provided under WIOA subtitle B for the youth, adult, and dislocated worker activities and one-stop delivery system in the local area; and
(3) Ensure the appropriate use management, and investment of funds to maximize performance outcomes under WIOA sec. 116;
(j) Negotiate and reach agreement on local performance indicators with the chief elected official and the Governor;
(k) Negotiate with CEO and required partners on the methods for funding the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers in the local area in accordance with § 678.715 of this chapter or must notify the Governor if they fail to reach agreement at the local level and will use a State infrastructure funding mechanism;
(l) Select the following providers in the local area, and where appropriate terminate such providers in accordance with 2 CFR part 200:
(1) Providers of youth workforce investment activities through competitive grants or contracts based on the recommendations of the youth standing committee (if such a committee is established); however, if the Local WDB determines there is an insufficient number of eligible training providers in a local area, the Local WDB may award contracts on a sole-source basis as per the provisions at WIOA sec. 123(b);
(2) Providers of training services consistent with the criteria and information requirements established by the Governor and WIOA sec. 122;
(3) Providers of career services through the award of contracts, if the one-stop operator does not provide such services; and
(4) One-stop operators in accordance with §§ 678.600 through 678.635 of this chapter;
(m) In accordance with WIOA sec. 107(d)(10)(E) work with the State to ensure there are sufficient numbers and types of providers of career services and training services serving the local area and providing the services in a manner that maximizes consumer choice, as well as providing opportunities that lead to competitive integrated employment for individuals with disabilities;
(n) Coordinate activities with education and training providers in the local area, including:
(1) Reviewing applications to provide adult education and literacy activities under WIOA title II for the local area to determine whether such applications are consistent with the local plan;
(2) Making recommendations to the eligible agency to promote alignment with such plan; and
(3) Replicating and implementing cooperative agreements to enhance the provision of services to individuals with disabilities and other individuals, such as cross training of staff, technical assistance, use and sharing of information, cooperative efforts with employers, and other efforts at cooperation, collaboration, and coordination;
(o) Develop a budget for the activities of the Local WDB, with approval of the chief elected official and consistent with the local plan and the duties of the Local WDB;
(p) Assess, on an annual basis, the physical and programmatic accessibility of all one-stop centers in the local area, in accordance with WIOA sec. 188, if applicable, and applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
); and
(q) Certification of one-stop centers in accordance with § 678.800 of this chapter.
§ 679.380
How does the Local Workforce Development Board satisfy the consumer choice requirements for career services and training services?
(a) In accordance with WIOA sec. 122 and in working with the State, the Local WDB satisfies the consumer choice requirement for training services by:
(1) Determining the initial eligibility of entities providing a program of training services, renewing the eligibility of providers, and considering the possible termination of an eligible training provider due to the provider's submission of inaccurate eligibility and performance information or the provider's substantial violation of WIOA;
(2) Working with the State to ensure there are sufficient numbers and types of providers of training services, including eligible training providers with expertise in assisting individuals with disabilities and eligible training providers with expertise in assisting adults in need of adult education and literacy activities described under WIOA sec. 107(d)(10)(E), serving the local area;
(3) Ensuring the dissemination and appropriate use of the State list through the local one-stop delivery system;
(4) Receiving performance and cost information from the State and disseminating this information through the one-stop delivery systems within the State; and
(5) Providing adequate access to services for individuals with disabilities.
(b) Working with the State, the Local WDB satisfies the consumer choice requirement for career services by:
(1) Determining the career services that are best performed by the one-stop operator consistent with §§ 678.620 and 678.625 of this chapter and career services that require contracting with a career service provider; and
(2) Identifying a wide-array of potential career service providers and awarding contracts where appropriate including to providers to ensure:
(i) Sufficient access to services for individuals with disabilities, including opportunities that lead to integrated, competitive employment for individuals with disabilities; and
(ii) Sufficient access for adult education and literacy activities.
§ 679.390
How does the Local Workforce Development Board meet its requirement to conduct business in an open manner under the “sunshine provision” of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
The Local WDB must conduct its business in an open manner as required by WIOA sec. 107(e), by making available to the public, on a regular basis through electronic means and open meetings, information about the activities of the Local WDB. This includes:
(a) Information about the Local Plan, or modification to the Local Plan, before submission of the plan;
(b) List and affiliation of Local WDB members;
(c) Selection of one-stop operators;
(d) Award of grants or contracts to eligible training providers of workforce investment activities including providers of youth workforce investment activities;
(e) Minutes of formal meetings of the Local WDB; and
(f) Local WDB by-laws, consistent with § 679.310(g).
§ 679.400
Who are the staff to the Local Workforce Development Board and what is their role?
(a) WIOA sec. 107(f) grants Local WDBs authority to hire a director and other staff to assist in carrying out the functions of the Local WDB.
(b) Local WDBs must establish and apply a set of qualifications for the position of director that ensures the individual selected has the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities to meet identified benchmarks and to assist in carrying out the functions of the Local WDB.
(c) The Local WDB director and staff must be subject to the limitations on the payment of salary and bonuses described in WIOA sec. 194(15).
(d) In general, Local WDB staff only may assist the Local WDB fulfill the required functions at WIOA sec. 107(d).
(e) Should the WDB select an entity to staff the WDB that provides additional workforce functions beyond the functions described at WIOA sec. 107(d), such an entity is required to enter into a written agreement with the Local WDB and chief elected official(s) to clarify their roles and responsibilities as required by § 679.430.
§ 679.410
Under what conditions may a Local Workforce Development Board directly be a provider of career services, or training services, or act as a one-stop operator?
(a)(1) A Local WDB may be selected as a one-stop operator:
(i) Through sole source procurement in accordance with § 678.610 of this chapter; or
(ii) Through successful competition in accordance with § 678.615 of this chapter.
(2) The chief elected official in the local area and the Governor must agree to the selection described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) Where a Local WDB acts as a one-stop operator, the State must ensure certification of one-stop centers in accordance with § 678.800 of this chapter.
(b) A Local WDB may act as a provider of career services only with the agreement of the chief elected official in the local area and the Governor.
(c) A Local WDB is prohibited from providing training services, unless the Governor grants a waiver in accordance with the provisions in WIOA sec. 107(g)(1).
(1) The State must develop a procedure for approving waivers that includes the criteria at WIOA sec. 107(g)(1)(B)(i):
(i) Satisfactory evidence that there is an insufficient number of eligible training providers of such a program of training services to meet local demand in the local area;
(ii) Information demonstrating that the WDB meets the requirements for eligible training provider services under WIOA sec. 122; and
(iii) Information demonstrating that the program of training services prepares participants for an in-demand industry sector or occupation in the local area.
(2) The local area must make the proposed request for a waiver available to eligible training providers and other interested members of the public for a public comment period of not less than 30 days and includes any comments received during this time in the final request for the waiver.
(3) The waiver must not exceed the duration of the local plan and may be renewed by submitting a new waiver request consistent with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for additional periods, not to exceed the durations of such subsequent plans.
(4) The Governor may revoke the waiver if the Governor determines the waiver is no longer needed or that the Local WDB involved has engaged in a pattern of inappropriate referrals to training services operated by the Local WDB.
(d) The restrictions on the provision of career and training services by the Local WDB, as one-stop operator, also apply to staff of the Local WDB.
§ 679.420
What are the functions of the local fiscal agent?
(a) In order to assist in administration of the grant funds, the chief elected official or the Governor, where the Governor serves as the local grant recipient for a local area, may designate an entity to serve as a local fiscal agent. Designation of a fiscal agent does not relieve the chief elected official or Governor of liability for the misuse of grant funds. If the CEO designates a fiscal agent, the CEO must ensure this agent has clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
(b) In general the fiscal agent is responsible for the following functions:
(1) Receive funds.
(2) Ensure sustained fiscal integrity and accountability for expenditures of funds in accordance with Office of Management and Budget circulars, WIOA and the corresponding Federal Regulations and State policies.
(3) Respond to audit financial findings.
(4) Maintain proper accounting records and adequate documentation.
(5) Prepare financial reports.
(6) Provide technical assistance to subrecipients regarding fiscal issues.
(c) At the direction of the Local WDB or the State WDB in single-area States, the fiscal agent may have the following additional functions:
(1) Procure contracts or obtain written agreements.
(2) Conduct financial monitoring of service providers.
(3) Ensure independent audit of all employment and training programs.
§ 679.430
How do entities performing multiple functions in a local area demonstrate internal controls and prevent conflict of interest?
Local organizations often function simultaneously in a variety of roles, including local fiscal agent, Local WDB staff, one-stop operator, and direct provider of services. Any organization that has been selected or otherwise designated to perform more than one of these functions must develop a written agreement with the Local WDB and CEO to clarify how the organization will carry out its responsibilities while demonstrating compliance with WIOA and corresponding regulations, relevant Office of Management and Budget circulars, and the State's conflict of interest policy.

# Subpart D—Regional and Local Plan
§ 679.500
What is the purpose of the regional and local plan?
(a) The local plan serves as 4-year action plan to develop, align, and integrate service delivery strategies and to support the State's vision and strategic and operational goals. The local plan sets forth the strategy to:
(1) Direct investments in economic, education, and workforce training programs to focus on providing relevant education and training to ensure that individuals, including youth and individuals with barriers to employment, have the skills to compete in the job market and that employers have a ready supply of skilled workers;
(2) Apply job-driven strategies in the one-stop delivery system;
(3) Enable economic, education, and workforce partners to build a skilled workforce through innovation in, and alignment of, employment, training, and education programs; and
(4) Incorporate the local plan into the regional plan per § 679.540.
(b) In the case of planning regions, a regional plan is required to meet the purposes described in paragraph (a) of this section and to coordinate resources among multiple WDBs in a region.
(c) The Governor must establish and disseminate to Local WDBs and regional planning areas a policy for the submission of local and regional plans. The policy must set a deadline for the submission of the regional and local plans that accounts for the activities required in plan development outlined in §§ 679.510 and 679.550.
§ 679.510
What are the requirements for regional planning?
(a) Local WDBs and chief elected officials within an identified planning region (as defined in WIOA secs. 106(a)(2)(B)-(C) and § 679.200) must:
(1) Participate in a regional planning process that results in:
(i) The preparation of a regional plan, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and consistent with any guidance issued by the Department;
(ii) The establishment of regional service strategies, including use of cooperative service delivery agreements;
(iii) The development and implementation of sector initiatives for in-demand industry sectors or occupations for the planning region;
(iv) The collection and analysis of regional labor market data (in conjunction with the State) which must include the local planning requirements at § 679.560(a)(1)(i) and (ii);
(v) The coordination of administrative cost arrangements, including the pooling of funds for administrative costs, as appropriate;
(vi) The coordination of transportation and other supportive services as appropriate;
(vii) The coordination of services with regional economic development services and providers; and
(viii) The establishment of an agreement concerning how the planning region will collectively negotiate and reach agreement with the Governor on local levels of performance for, and report on, the performance accountability measures described in WIOA sec. 116(c) for local areas or the planning region.
(2) Prepare, submit, and obtain approval of a single regional plan that:
(i) Includes a description of the activities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(ii) Incorporates local plans for each of the local areas in the planning region, consistent with § 679.540(a).
(b) Consistent with § 679.550(b), the Local WDBs representing each local area in the planning region must provide an opportunity for public comment on the development of the regional plan or subsequent plan modifications before submitting the plan to the Governor. To provide adequate opportunity for public comment, the Local WDBs must:
(1) Make copies of the proposed regional plan available to the public through electronic and other means, such as public hearings and local news media;
(2) Include an opportunity for comment by members of the public, including representatives of business, labor organizations, and education;
(3) Provide no more than a 30-day period for comment on the plan before its submission to the Governor, beginning on the date on which the proposed plan is made available; and
(4) The Local WDBs must submit any comments that express disagreement with the plan to the Governor along with the plan.
(5) Consistent with WIOA sec. 107(e), the Local WDB must make information about the plan available to the public on a regular basis through electronic means and open meetings.
(c) The State must provide technical assistance and labor market data, as requested by local areas, to assist with regional planning and subsequent service delivery efforts.
(d) As they relate to regional areas and regional plans, the terms local area and local plan are defined in WIOA secs. 106(c)(3)(A)-(B).
§ 679.520
What are the requirements for approval of a regional plan?
Consistent with the requirements of § 679.570, the Governor must review completed plans (including a modification to the plan). Such plans will be considered approved 90 days after receipt of the plan unless the Governor determines in writing that:
(a) There are deficiencies in workforce investment activities that have been identified through audits and the local area has not made acceptable progress in implementing plans to address deficiencies; or
(b) The plan does not comply with applicable provisions of WIOA and the WIOA regulations, including the required consultations and public comment provisions, and the nondiscrimination requirements of 29 CFR part 38.
(c) The plan does not align with the State Plan, including with regard to the alignment of the core programs to support the strategy identified in the State Plan in accordance with WIOA sec. 102(b)(1)(E) and § 676.105 of this chapter.
§ 679.530
When must the regional plan be modified?
(a) Consistent with § 679.580, the Governor must establish procedures governing the modification of regional plans.
(b) At the end of the first 2-year period of the 4-year local plan, the Local WDBs within a planning region, in partnership with the appropriate chief elected officials, must review the regional plan and prepare and submit modifications to the regional plan to reflect changes:
(1) In regional labor market and economic conditions; and
(2) Other factors affecting the implementation of the local plan, including but not limited to changes in the financing available to support WIOA title I and partner-provided WIOA services.
§ 679.540
How are local planning requirements reflected in a regional plan?
(a) The regional plan must address the requirements at WIOA secs. 106(c)(1)(A)-(H), and incorporate the
local planning requirements identified for local plans at WIOA secs. 108(b)(1)-(22).
(b) The Governor may issue regional planning guidance that allows Local WDBs and chief elected officials in a planning region to address any local plan requirements through the regional plan where there is a shared regional responsibility.
§ 679.550
What are the requirements for the development of the local plan?
(a) Under WIOA sec. 108, each Local WDB must, in partnership with the appropriate chief elected officials, develop and submit a comprehensive 4-year plan to the Governor.
(1) The plan must identify and describe the policies, procedures, and local activities that are carried out in the local area, consistent with the State Plan.
(2) If the local area is part of a planning region, the Local WDB must comply with WIOA sec. 106(c) and §§ 679.510 through 679.540 in the preparation and submission of a regional plan.
(b) Consistent with § 679.510(b), the Local WDB must provide an opportunity for public comment on the development of the local plan or subsequent plan modifications before submitting the plan to the Governor. To provide adequate opportunity for public comment, the Local WDB must:
(1) Make copies of the proposed local plan available to the public through electronic and other means, such as public hearings and local news media;
(2) Include an opportunity for comment by members of the public, including representatives of business, labor organizations, and education;
(3) Provide no more than a 30-day period for comment on the plan before its submission to the Governor, beginning on the date on which the proposed plan is made available, prior to its submission to the Governor; and
(4) The Local WDB must submit any comments that express disagreement with the plan to the Governor along with the plan.
(5) Consistent WIOA sec. 107(e), the Local WDB must make information about the plan available to the public on a regular basis through electronic means and open meetings.
§ 679.560
What are the contents of the local plan?
(a) The local workforce investment plan must describe strategic planning elements, including:
(1) A regional analysis of:
(i) Economic conditions including existing and emerging in-demand industry sectors and occupations; and
(ii) Employment needs of employers in existing and emerging in-demand industry sectors and occupations.
(iii) As appropriate, a local area may use an existing analysis, which is a timely current description of the regional economy, to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(2) Knowledge and skills needed to meet the employment needs of the employers in the region, including employment needs in in-demand industry sectors and occupations;
(3) An analysis of the regional workforce, including current labor force employment and unemployment data, information on labor market trends, and educational and skill levels of the workforce, including individuals with barriers to employment;
(4) An analysis of workforce development activities, including education and training, in the region. This analysis must include the strengths and weaknesses of workforce development activities and capacity to provide the workforce development activities to address the education and skill needs of the workforce, including individuals with barriers to employment, and the employment needs of employers;
(5) A description of the Local WDB's strategic vision to support regional economic growth and economic self-sufficiency. This must include goals for preparing an educated and skilled workforce (including youth and individuals with barriers to employment), and goals relating to the performance accountability measures based on performance indicators described in § 677.155(a)(1) of this chapter; and
(6) Taking into account analyses described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, a strategy to work with the entities that carry out the core
programs and required partners to align resources available to the local area, to achieve the strategic vision and goals described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(b) The plan must include a description of the following requirements at WIOA secs. 108(b)(2)-(21):
(1) The workforce development system in the local area that identifies:
(i) The programs that are included in the system; and
(ii) How the Local WDB will support the strategy identified in the State Plan under § 676.105 of this chapter and work with the entities carrying out core programs and other workforce development programs, including programs of study authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301
et seq.
) to support service alignment;
(2) How the Local WDB will work with entities carrying out core programs to:
(i) Expand access to employment, training, education, and supportive services for eligible individuals, particularly eligible individuals with barriers to employment;
(ii) Facilitate the development of career pathways and co-enrollment, as appropriate, in core programs; and
(iii) Improve access to activities leading to a recognized postsecondary credential (including a credential that is an industry-recognized certificate or certification, portable, and stackable);
(3) The strategies and services that will be used in the local area:
(i) To facilitate engagement of employers in workforce development programs, including small employers and employers in in-demand industry sectors and occupations;
(ii) To support a local workforce development system that meets the needs of businesses in the local area;
(iii) To better coordinate workforce development programs and economic development;
(iv) To strengthen linkages between the one-stop delivery system and unemployment insurance programs; and
(v) That may include the implementation of initiatives such as incumbent worker training programs, on-the-job training programs, customized training programs, industry and sector strategies, career pathways initiatives, utilization of effective business intermediaries, and other business services and strategies designed to meet the needs of regional employers. These initiatives must support the strategy described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(4) An examination of how the Local WDB will coordinate local workforce investment activities with regional economic development activities that are carried out in the local area and how the Local WDB will promote entrepreneurial skills training and microenterprise services;
(5) The one-stop delivery system in the local area, including:
(i) How the Local WDB will ensure the continuous improvement of eligible providers through the system and that such providers will meet the employment needs of local employers, workers, and job seekers;
(ii) How the Local WDB will facilitate access to services provided through the one-stop delivery system, including in remote areas, through the use of technology and other means;
(iii) How entities within the one-stop delivery system, including one-stop operators and the one-stop partners, will comply with WIOA sec. 188, if applicable, and applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
) regarding the physical and programmatic accessibility of facilities, programs and services, technology, and materials for individuals with disabilities, including providing staff training and support for addressing the needs of individuals with disabilities; and
(iv) The roles and resource contributions of the one-stop partners;
(6) A description and assessment of the type and availability of adult and dislocated worker employment and training activities in the local area;
(7) A description of how the Local WDB will coordinate workforce investment activities carried out in the local area with statewide rapid response activities;
(8) A description and assessment of the type and availability of youth workforce investment activities in the local area including activities for
youth who are individuals with disabilities, which must include an identification of successful models of such activities;
(9) How the Local WDB will coordinate relevant secondary and postsecondary education programs and activities with education and workforce investment activities to coordinate strategies, enhance services, and avoid duplication of services;
(10) How the Local WDB will coordinate WIOA title I workforce investment activities with the provision of transportation and other appropriate supportive services in the local area;
(11) Plans, assurances, and strategies for maximizing coordination, improving service delivery, and avoiding duplication of Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49
et seq.
) services and other services provided through the one-stop delivery system;
(12) How the Local WDB will coordinate WIOA title I workforce investment activities with adult education and literacy activities under WIOA title II. This description must include how the Local WDB will carry out the review of local applications submitted under title II consistent with WIOA secs. 107(d)(11)(A) and (B)(i) and WIOA sec. 232;
(13) Copies of executed cooperative agreements which define how all local service providers, including additional providers, will carry out the requirements for integration of and access to the entire set of services available in the local one-stop delivery system. This includes cooperative agreements (as defined in WIOA sec. 107(d)(11)) between the Local WDB or other local entities described in WIOA sec. 101(a)(11)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(11)(B)) and the local office of a designated State agency or designated State unit administering programs carried out under title I of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
) (other than sec. 112 or part C of that title (29 U.S.C. 732, 741) and subject to sec. 121(f)) in accordance with sec. 101(a)(11) of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(11)) with respect to efforts that will enhance the provision of services to individuals with disabilities and to other individuals, such as cross training of staff, technical assistance, use and sharing of information, cooperative efforts with employers, and other efforts at cooperation, collaboration, and coordination;
(14) An identification of the entity responsible for the disbursal of grant funds described in WIOA sec. 107(d)(12)(B)(i)(III), as determined by the chief elected official or the Governor under WIOA sec. 107(d)(12)(B)(i);
(15) The competitive process that will be used to award the subgrants and contracts for WIOA title I activities;
(16) The local levels of performance negotiated with the Governor and chief elected official consistent with WIOA sec. 116(c), to be used to measure the performance of the local area and to be used by the Local WDB for measuring the performance of the local fiscal agent (where appropriate), eligible providers under WIOA title I subtitle B, and the one-stop delivery system in the local area;
(17) The actions the Local WDB will take toward becoming or remaining a high-performing WDB, consistent with the factors developed by the State WDB;
(18) How training services outlined in WIOA sec. 134 will be provided through the use of individual training accounts, including, if contracts for training services will be used, how the use of such contracts will be coordinated with the use of individual training accounts under that chapter, and how the Local WDB will ensure informed customer choice in the selection of training programs regardless of how the training services are to be provided;
(19) The process used by the Local WDB, consistent with WIOA sec. 108(d), to provide a 30-day public comment period prior to submission of the plan, including an opportunity to have input into the development of the local plan, particularly for representatives of businesses, education, and labor organizations;
(20) How one-stop centers are implementing and transitioning to an integrated, technology-enabled intake and case management information system for programs carried out under WIOA and by one-stop partners; and
(21) The direction given by the Governor and the Local WDB to the one-
stop operator to ensure priority for adult career and training services will be given to recipients of public assistance, other low-income individuals, and individuals who are basic skills deficient consistent with WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(E) and § 680.600 of this chapter.
(c) The local plan must include any additional information required by the Governor.
(d) The local plan must identify the portions that the Governor has designated as appropriate for common response in the regional plan where there is a shared regional responsibility, as permitted by § 679.540(b).
(e) Comments submitted during the public comment period that represent disagreement with the plan must be submitted with the local plan.
§ 679.570
What are the requirements for approval of a local plan?
(a) Consistent with the requirements at § 679.520 the Governor must review completed plans (including a modification to the plan). Such plans will be considered approved 90 days after the Governor receives the plan unless the Governor determines in writing that:
(1) There are deficiencies in workforce investment activities that have been identified through audits and the local area has not made acceptable progress in implementing plans to address deficiencies; or
(2) The plan does not comply with applicable provisions of WIOA and the WIOA regulations, including the required consultations and public comment provisions, and the nondiscrimination requirements of 29 CFR part 38.
(3) The plan does not align with the State Plan, including with regard to the alignment of the core programs to support the strategy identified in the State Plan in accordance with WIOA sec. 102(b)(1)(E) and § 676.105 of this chapter.
(b) In cases where the State is a single local area:
(1) The State must incorporate the local plan into the State's Unified or Combined State Plan and submit it to the U.S. Department of Labor in accordance with the procedures described in § 676.105 of this chapter.
(2) The Secretary of Labor performs the roles assigned to the Governor as they relate to local planning activities.
(3) The Secretary of Labor will issue planning guidance for such States.
§ 679.580
When must the local plan be modified?
(a) Consistent with the requirements at § 679.530, the Governor must establish procedures governing the modification of local plans.
(b) At the end of the first 2-year period of the 4-year local plan, each Local WDB, in partnership with the appropriate chief elected officials, must review the local plan and prepare and submit modifications to the local plan to reflect changes:
(1) In labor market and economic conditions; and
(2) Other factors affecting the implementation of the local plan, including but not limited to:
(i) Significant changes in local economic conditions;
(ii) Changes in the financing available to support WIOA title I and partner-provided WIOA services;
(iii) Changes to the Local WDB structure; and
(iv) The need to revise strategies to meet local performance goals.

# Subpart E—Waivers/WorkFlex (Workforce Flexibility Plan)
§ 679.600
What is the purpose of the general statutory and regulatory waiver authority in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) The purpose of the general statutory and regulatory waiver authority provided at sec. 189(i)(3) of the WIOA is to provide flexibility to States and local areas and enhance their ability to improve the statewide workforce development system to achieve the goals and purposes of WIOA.
(b) A waiver may be requested to address impediments to the implementation of a Unified or Combined State Plan, including the continuous improvement strategy, consistent with the purposes of title I of WIOA as identified in § 675.100 of this chapter.
§ 679.610
What provisions of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act and the Wagner-Peyser Act may be waived, and what provisions may not be waived?
(a) The Secretary may waive for a State, or local area in a State, any of the statutory or regulatory requirements of subtitles A, B and E of title I of WIOA, except for requirements relating to:
(1) Wage and labor standards;
(2) Non-displacement protections;
(3) Worker rights;
(4) Participation and protection of workers and participants;
(5) Grievance procedures and judicial review;
(6) Nondiscrimination;
(7) Allocation of funds to local areas;
(8) Eligibility of providers or participants;
(9) The establishment and functions of local areas and Local WDBs;
(10) Procedures for review and approval of State and Local plans;
(11) The funding of infrastructure costs for one-stop centers; and
(12) Other requirements relating to the basic purposes of title I of WIOA described in § 675.100 of this chapter.
(b) The Secretary may waive for a State, or local area in a State, any of the statutory or regulatory requirements of secs. 8 through 10 of the Wagner- Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49g-49i) except for requirements relating to:
(1) The provision of services to unemployment insurance claimants and veterans; and
(2) Universal access to the basic labor exchange services without cost to job seekers.
§ 679.620
Under what conditions may a Governor request, and the Secretary approve, a general waiver of statutory or regulatory requirements under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) The Secretary will issue guidelines under which the States may request general waivers of WIOA and Wagner-Peyser Act requirements.
(b) A Governor may request a general waiver in consultation with appropriate chief elected officials:
(1) By submitting a waiver plan which may accompany the State's WIOA 4-year Unified or Combined State Plan or 2-year modification; or
(2) After a State's WIOA Plan is approved, by separately submitting a waiver plan.
(c) A Governor's waiver request may seek waivers for the entire State or for one or more local areas within the State.
(d) A Governor requesting a general waiver must submit to the Secretary a plan to improve the statewide workforce development system that:
(1) Identifies the statutory or regulatory requirements for which a waiver is requested and the goals that the State or local area, as appropriate, intends to achieve as a result of the waiver and how those goals relate to the Unified or Combined State Plan;
(2) Describes the actions that the State or local area, as appropriate, has undertaken to remove State or local statutory or regulatory barriers;
(3) Describes the goals of the waiver and the expected programmatic outcomes if the request is granted;
(4) Describes how the waiver will align with the Department's policy priorities, such as:
(i) Supporting employer engagement;
(ii) Connecting education and training strategies;
(iii) Supporting work-based learning;
(iv) Improving job and career results; and
(v) Other priorities as articulated in guidance;
(5) Describes the individuals affected by the waiver, including how the waiver will impact services for disadvantaged populations or individuals with multiple barriers to employment; and
(6) Describes the processes used to:
(i) Monitor the progress in implementing the waiver;
(ii) Provide notice to any Local WDB affected by the waiver;
(iii) Provide any Local WDB affected by the waiver an opportunity to comment on the request;
(iv) Ensure meaningful public comment, including comment by business and organized labor, on the waiver; and
(v) Collect and report information about waiver outcomes in the State's WIOA Annual Report.
(7) The Secretary may require that States provide the most recent data
available about the outcomes of the existing waiver in cases where the State seeks renewal of a previously approved waiver.
(e) The Secretary will issue a decision on a waiver request within 90 days after the receipt of the original waiver request.
(f) The Secretary will approve a waiver request if and only to the extent that:
(1) The Secretary determines that the requirements for which a waiver is requested impede the ability of either the State or local area to implement the State's Plan to improve the statewide workforce development system;
(2) The Secretary determines that the waiver plan meets all of the requirements of WIOA sec. 189(i)(3) and §§ 679.600 through 679.620; and
(3) The State has executed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Secretary requiring the State to meet, or ensure that the local area meets, agreed-upon outcomes and to implement other appropriate measures to ensure accountability.
(g) A waiver may be approved for as long as the Secretary determines appropriate, but for not longer than the duration of the State's existing Unified or Combined State Plan.
(h) The Secretary may revoke a waiver granted under this section if the Secretary determines that the State has failed to meet the agreed upon outcomes, measures, failed to comply with the terms and conditions in the MOU described in paragraph (f) of this section or any other document establishing the terms and conditions of the waiver, or if the waiver no longer meets the requirements of §§ 679.600 through 679.620.
§ 679.630
Under what conditions may the Governor submit a workforce flexibility plan?
(a) A State may submit to the Secretary, and the Secretary may approve, a workforce flexibility (workflex) plan under which the State is authorized to waive, in accordance with the plan:
(1) Any of the statutory or regulatory requirements under title I of WIOA applicable to local areas, if the local area requests the waiver in a waiver application, except for:
(i) Requirements relating to the basic purposes of title I of WIOA described in § 675.100 of this chapter;
(ii) Wage and labor standards;
(iii) Grievance procedures and judicial review;
(iv) Nondiscrimination;
(v) Eligibility of participants;
(vi) Allocation of funds to local areas;
(vii) Establishment and functions of local areas and Local WDBs;
(viii) Procedures for review and approval of local plans; and
(ix) Worker rights, participation, and protection.
(2) Any of the statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to the State under secs. 8 through 10 of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49g-49i), except for requirements relating to:
(i) The provision of services to unemployment insurance claimants and veterans; and
(ii) Universal access to basic labor exchange services without cost to job seekers.
(3) Any of the statutory or regulatory requirements applicable under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (OAA) (42 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.
), to State agencies on aging with respect to activities carried out using funds allotted under OAA sec. 506(b) (42 U.S.C. 3056d(b)), except for requirements relating to:
(i) The basic purposes of OAA;
(ii) Wage and labor standards;
(iii) Eligibility of participants in the activities; and
(iv) Standards for grant agreements.
(b) A workforce flexibility plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must include descriptions of:
(1) The process by which local areas in the State may submit and obtain State approval of applications for waivers of requirements under title I of WIOA;
(2) A description of the criteria the State will use to approve local area waiver requests and how such requests support implementation of the goals identified State Plan;
(3) The statutory and regulatory requirements of title I of WIOA that are likely to be waived by the State under the workforce flexibility plan;
(4) The statutory and regulatory requirements of secs. 8 through 10 of the
Wagner-Peyser Act that are proposed for waiver, if any;
(5) The statutory and regulatory requirements of the OAA that are proposed for waiver, if any;
(6) The outcomes to be achieved by the waivers described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section including, where appropriate, revisions to adjusted levels of performance included in the State or local plan under title I of WIOA, and a description of the data or other information the State will use to track and assess outcomes; and
(7) The measures to be taken to ensure appropriate accountability for Federal funds in connection with the waivers.
(c) A State's workforce flexibility plan may accompany the State's Unified or Combined State Plan, 2-year modification, or may be submitted separately as a modification to that plan.
(d) The Secretary may approve a workforce flexibility plan consistent with the period of approval of the State's Unified or Combined State Plan, and not for more than 5 years.
(e) Before submitting a workforce flexibility plan to the Secretary for approval, the State must provide adequate notice and a reasonable opportunity for comment on the proposed waiver requests under the workforce flexibility plan to all interested parties and to the general public.
(f) The Secretary will issue guidelines under which States may request designation as a work-flex State. These guidelines may require a State to implement an evaluation of the impact of work-flex in the State.
§ 679.640
What limitations apply to the State's workforce flexibility plan authority under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a)(1) Under work-flex waiver authority a State must not waive the WIOA, Wagner-Peyser Act or OAA requirements which are excepted from the work-flex waiver authority and described in § 679.630(a).
(2) Requests to waive statutory and regulatory requirements of title I of WIOA applicable at the State level may not be granted under work-flex waiver authority granted to a State. Such requests only may be granted by the Secretary under the general waiver authority described at §§ 679.610 through 679.620.
(b) As required in § 679.630(b)(6), States must address the outcomes to result from work-flex waivers as part of its workforce flexibility plan. The Secretary may terminate a State's work-flex designation if the State fails to meet agreed-upon outcomes or other terms and conditions contained in its workforce flexibility plan.
Pt. 680

# PART 680—ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER ACTIVITIES UNDER TITLE I OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT

# Subpart A—Delivery of Adult and Dislocated Worker Activities Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
Sec.
680.100
What is the role of the adult and dislocated worker programs in the one-stop delivery system?
680.110
When must adults and dislocated workers be registered and considered a participant?
680.120
What are the eligibility criteria for career services for adults in the adult and dislocated worker programs?
680.130
What are the eligibility criteria for career services for dislocated workers in the adult and dislocated worker programs?
680.140
What Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I adult and dislocated worker services are Local Workforce Development Boards required and permitted to provide?
680.150
What career services must be provided to adults and dislocated workers?
680.160
How are career services delivered?
680.170
What is the individual employment plan?
680.180
What is an internship or work experience for adults and dislocated workers?
680.190
What is a transitional job?
680.195
What funds may be used for transitional jobs?

# Subpart B—Training Services
680.200
What are training services for adults and dislocated workers? 680.210 Who may receive training services?
680.220
Are there particular career services an individual must receive before receiving training services under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
680.230
What are the requirements for coordination of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act training funds and other grant assistance?

# Subpart C—Individual Training Accounts
680.300
How are training services provided?
680.310
Can the duration and amount of Individual Training Accounts be limited?
680.320
Under what circumstances may mechanisms other than Individual Training Accounts be used to provide training services?
680.330
How can Individual Training Accounts, supportive services, and needs-related payments be used to support placing participating adults and dislocated workers into a registered apprenticeship program and support participants once they are in a registered apprenticeship program?
680.340
What are the requirements for consumer choice?
680.350
May Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I adult and dislocated worker funds be used to directly support adult education and literacy activities?

# Subpart D—Eligible Training Providers
680.400
What is the purpose of this subpart?
680.410
What is an eligible training provider?
680.420
What is a “program of training services”?
680.430
Who is responsible for managing the training provider eligibility process?
680.440
[Reserved]
680.450
What is the initial eligibility process for new providers and programs?
680.460
What is the application procedure for continued eligibility?
680.470
What are the procedures for including and removing registered apprenticeship programs on a State list of eligible training providers and programs?
680.480
May an eligible training provider lose its eligibility?
680.490
What kind of performance and cost information must eligible training providers other than registered apprenticeship programs provide for each program of training services?
680.500
How is the State list of eligible training providers and programs disseminated?
680.510
In what ways can a Local Workforce Development Board supplement the information available from the State list of eligible training providers and programs?
680.520
May individuals choose training providers and programs located outside of the local area or outside of the State?
680.530
What eligibility requirements apply to providers of on-the-job-training, customized training, incumbent worker training, and other training exceptions?

# Subpart E—Priority and Special Populations
680.600
What priority must be given to low-income adults and public assistance recipients and individuals who are basic skills deficient served with adult funds under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
680.610
Does the statutory priority for use of adult funds also apply to dislocated worker funds?
680.620
How does the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program relate to the one-stop delivery system?
680.630
How does a displaced homemaker qualify for services under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
680.640
May an individual with a disability whose family does not meet income eligibility criteria under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act be eligible for priority as a low-income adult?
680.650
Do veterans receive priority of service under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
680.660
Are separating military service members eligible for dislocated worker activities under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

# Subpart F—Work-Based Training
680.700
What are the requirements for on-the-job training?
680.710
What are the requirements for on-the-job training contracts for employed workers?
680.720
What conditions govern on-the-job training payments to employers?
680.730
Under what conditions may a Governor or Local Workforce Development Board raise the on-the-job training reimbursement rate up to 75 percent of the wage rate?
680.740
How can on-the-job training funds be used to support placing participants into a registered apprenticeship program?
680.750
Can Individual Training Account and on-the-job training funds be combined to support placing participants into a registered apprenticeship program?
680.760
What is customized training?
680.770
What are the requirements for customized training for employed workers?
680.780
Who is an “incumbent worker” for purposes of statewide and local employment and training activities?
680.790
What is incumbent worker training?
680.800
What funds may be used for incumbent worker training?
680.810
What criteria must be taken into account for an employer to be eligible to receive local incumbent worker funds?
680.820
Are there cost sharing requirements for local area incumbent worker training?
680.830
May funds provided to employers for work-based training be used to assist, promote, or deter union organizing?
680.840
May funds provided to employers for work-based training and other work experiences be used to fill job openings as a result of a labor dispute?

# Subpart G—Supportive Services
680.900
What are supportive services for adults and dislocated workers?
680.910
When may supportive services be provided to participants?
680.920
Are there limits on the amount or duration of funds for supportive services?
680.930
What are needs-related payments?
680.940
What are the eligibility requirements for adults to receive needs-related payments?
680.950
What are the eligibility requirements for dislocated workers to receive needs-related payments?
680.960
May needs-related payments be paid while a participant is waiting to start training classes?
680.970
How is the level of needs-related payments determined?

# Authority:
Secs. 122, 134, 189, 503, Pub. L. 113-128, 128 Stat. 1425 (Jul. 22, 2014).

# Source:
81 FR 56385, Aug. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Delivery of Adult and Dislocated Worker Activities Under Title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
§ 680.100
What is the role of the adult and dislocated worker programs in the one-stop delivery system?
(a) The one-stop delivery system is the basic delivery system for adult and dislocated worker services. Through this system, adults and dislocated workers can access a continuum of services. The services are classified as career and training services.
(b) The chief elected official or his/her designee(s), as the local grant recipient(s) for the adult and dislocated worker programs, is a required one-stop partner and is subject to the provisions relating to such partners described in part 678 of this chapter. Consistent with those provisions:
(1) Career services for adults and dislocated workers must be made available in at least one one-stop center in each local area. Services also may be available elsewhere, either at affiliated sites or at specialized centers. For example, specialized centers may be established to serve workers being dislocated from a particular employer or industry, or to serve residents of public housing.
(2) Through the one-stop delivery system, adults and dislocated workers needing training are provided Individual Training Accounts (ITAs) and access to lists of eligible training providers and programs of training. These lists contain quality consumer information, including cost and performance information for each of the providers' programs, so that participants can make informed choices on where to use their ITAs. (ITAs are more fully discussed in subpart C of this part.)
§ 680.110
When must adults and dislocated workers be registered and considered a participant?
(a) Registration is the process for collecting information to support a determination of eligibility. This information may be collected through methods that include electronic data transfer, personal interview, or an individual's application. Individuals are considered participants when they have received a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) service other than self-service or information-only activities and have satisfied all applicable programmatic requirements for the provision of services, such as eligibility determination (
see
§ 677.150(a) of this chapter).
(b) Adults and dislocated workers who receive services funded under WIOA title I other than self-service or information-only activities must be registered and must be a participant.
(c) EO data, as defined in § 675.300 of this chapter, must be collected on every individual who is interested in being considered for WIOA title I financially assisted aid, benefits, services, or training by a recipient, and who has signified that interest by submitting personal information in response to a
request from the grant recipient or designated service provider.
§ 680.120
What are the eligibility criteria for career services for adults in the adult and dislocated worker programs?
To be eligible to receive career services as an adult in the adult and dislocated worker programs, an individual must be 18 years of age or older. To be eligible for any dislocated worker programs, an eligible adult must meet the criteria of § 680.130. Eligibility criteria for training services are found at § 680.210.
§ 680.130
What are the eligibility criteria for career services for dislocated workers in the adult and dislocated worker programs?
(a) To be eligible to receive career services as a dislocated worker in the adult and dislocated worker programs, an individual must meet the definition of “dislocated worker” at WIOA sec. 3(15). Eligibility criteria for training services are found at § 680.210.
(b) Governors and Local Workforce Development Boards (WDBs) may establish policies and procedures for one-stop centers to use in determining an individual's eligibility as a dislocated worker, consistent with the definition at WIOA sec. 3(15). These policies and procedures may address such conditions as:
(1) What constitutes a “general announcement” of plant closing under WIOA sec. 3(15)(B)(ii) or (iii);
(2) What constitutes “unemployed as a result of general economic conditions in the community in which the individual resides or because of natural disasters” for determining the eligibility of self-employed individuals, including family members and farm workers or ranch hands, under WIOA sec. 3(15)(C); and
(3) What constitutes “unlikely to return to a previous industry or occupation” under WIOA sec. 3(15)(A)(iii), consistent with § 680.660.
§ 680.140
What Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I adult and dislocated worker services are Local Workforce Development Boards required and permitted to provide?
(a) WIOA title I formula funds allocated to local areas for adults and dislocated workers must be used to provide career and training services through the one-stop delivery system. Local WDBs determine the most appropriate mix of these services, but both types must be available for eligible adults and dislocated workers. Different eligibility criteria apply for each type of services.
See
§§ 680.120, 680.130, and 680.210.
(b) WIOA title I funds also may be used to provide the additional services described in WIOA sec. 134(d), including:
(1) Job seeker services, such as:
(i) Customer support to enable individuals with barriers to employment (including individuals with disabilities) and veterans, to navigate among multiple services and activities;
(ii) Training programs for displaced homemakers and for individuals training for nontraditional employment (as defined in WIOA sec. 3(37) as occupations or fields of work in which individuals of one gender comprise less than 25 percent of the individuals so employed), in conjunction with programs operated in the local area;
(iii) Work support activities for low-wage workers, in coordination with one-stop partners, which will provide opportunities for these workers to retain or enhance employment. These activities may include any activities available under the WIOA adult and dislocated worker programs in coordination with activities and resources available through partner programs. These activities may be provided in a manner that enhances the worker's ability to participate, for example by providing them at nontraditional hours or providing on-site child care;
(iv) Supportive services, including needs-related payments, as described in subpart G of this part; and
(v) Transitional jobs, as described in § 680.190, to individuals with barriers to
employment who are chronically unemployed or have an inconsistent work history;
(2) Employer services, such as:
(i) Customized screening and referral of qualified participants in training services to employers;
(ii) Customized employment-related services to employers, employer associations, or other such organization on a fee-for-service basis that are in addition to labor exchange services available to employers under the Wagner-Peyser Act Employment Service;
(iii) Activities to provide business services and strategies that meet the workforce investment needs of area employers, as determined by the Local WDB and consistent with the local plan (
see
§ 678.435 of this chapter and WIOA sec. 134(d)(1)(A)(ix)); and
(3) Coordination activities, such as:
(i) Employment and training activities in coordination with child support enforcement activities, as well as child support services and assistance activities, of the State and local agencies carrying out part D of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651
et seq.
);
(ii) Employment and training activities in coordination with cooperative extension programs carried out by the Department of Agriculture;
(iii) Employment and training activities in coordination with activities to facilitate remote access to services provided through a one-stop delivery system, including facilitating access through the use of technology;
(iv) Improving coordination between workforce investment activities and economic development activities carried out within the local area involved, and to promote entrepreneurial skills training and microenterprise services;
(v) Improving services and linkages between the local workforce development system (including the local one-stop delivery system) and employers, including small employers, in the local area;
(vi) Strengthening linkages between the one-stop delivery system and the unemployment insurance programs; and
(vii) Improving coordination between employment and training activities and programs carried out in the local area for individuals with disabilities, including programs carried out by State agencies relating to intellectual disabilities and developmental disabilities, activities carried out by Statewide Independent Living Councils established under sec. 705 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 796d), programs funded under part B of chapter 1 of title VII of such Act (29 U.S.C. 796e
et seq.
), and activities carried out by centers for independent living, as defined in sec. 702 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 796a);
(4) Implementing a Pay-for-Performance contract strategy for training services in accordance with §§ 683.500 through 683.530 of this chapter for which up to 10 percent of the Local WDB's total adult and dislocated worker funds may be used;
(5) Technical assistance for one-stop centers, partners, and eligible training providers (ETPs) on the provision of service to individuals with disabilities in local areas, including staff training and development, provision of outreach and intake assessments, service delivery, service coordination across providers and programs, and development of performance accountability measures;
(6) Activities to adjust the economic self-sufficiency standards referred to in WIOA sec. 134(a)(3)(A)(xii) for local factors or activities to adopt, calculate or commission for approval, economic self-sufficiency standards for the local areas that specify the income needs of families, by family size, the number and ages of children in the family, and sub-State geographical considerations;
(7) Implementing promising service to workers and businesses, which may include support for education, training, skill upgrading, and statewide networking for employees to become workplace learning advisors and maintain proficiency in carrying out the activities associated with such advising; and
(8) Incumbent worker training programs, as described in subpart F of this part.
§ 680.150
What career services must be provided to adults and dislocated workers?
(a) At a minimum, all of the basic career services described in WIOA secs. 134(c)(2)(A)(i)-(xi) and § 678.430(a) of this chapter must be provided in each local area through the one-stop delivery system.
(b) Individualized career services described in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(xii) and § 678.430(b) of this chapter must be made available, if determined appropriate in order for an individual to obtain or retain employment.
(c) Follow-up services, as described in WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(xiii) and § 678.430(c) of this chapter, must be made available, as determined appropriate by the Local WDB, for a minimum of 12 months following the first day of employment, to participants who are placed in unsubsidized employment.
§ 680.160
How are career services delivered?
Career services must be provided through the one-stop delivery system. Career services may be provided directly by the one-stop operator or through contracts with service providers that are approved by the Local WDB. The Local WDB only may be a provider of career services when approved by the chief elected official and the Governor in accordance with the requirements of WIOA sec. 107(g)(2) and § 679.410 of this chapter.
§ 680.170
What is the individual employment plan?
The individual employment plan (IEP) is an individualized career service, under WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(xii)(II), that is developed jointly by the participant and career planner when determined appropriate by the one-stop center or one-stop partner. The plan is an ongoing strategy to identify employment goals, achievement objectives, and an appropriate combination of services for the participant to achieve the employment goals.
§ 680.180
What is an internship or work experience for adults and dislocated workers?
For the purposes of WIOA sec. 134(c)(2)(A)(xii)(VII), an internship or work experience is a planned, structured learning experience that takes place in a workplace for a limited period of time. Internships and other work experience may be paid or unpaid, as appropriate and consistent with other laws, such as the Fair Labor Standards Act. An internship or other work experience may be arranged within the private for profit sector, the non-profit sector, or the public sector. Labor standards apply in any work experience setting where an employee/employer relationship, as defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act, exists. Transitional jobs are a type of work experience, as described in §§ 680.190 and 680.195.
§ 680.190
What is a transitional job?
A transitional job is one that provides a time-limited work experience, that is wage-paid and subsidized, and is in the public, private, or non-profit sectors for those individuals with barriers to employment who are chronically unemployed or have inconsistent work history, as determined by the Local WDB. These jobs are designed to enable an individual to establish a work history, demonstrate work success in an employee-employer relationship, and develop the skills that lead to unsubsidized employment.
§ 680.195
What funds may be used for transitional jobs?
The local area may use up to 10 percent of their combined total of adult and dislocated worker allocations for transitional jobs as described in § 680.190. Transitional jobs must be combined with comprehensive career services (
see
§ 680.150) and supportive services (
see
§ 680.900).

# Subpart B—Training Services
§ 680.200
What are training services for adults and dislocated workers?
Types of training services are listed in WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(D) and in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section.
This list is not all-inclusive and additional training services may be provided.
(a) Occupational skills training, including training for nontraditional employment;
(b) On-the-job training (OJT) (
see
§§ 680.700, 680.710, 680.720, and 680.730);
(c) Incumbent worker training, in accordance with WIOA sec. 134(d)(4) and §§ 680.780, 680.790, 680.800, 680.810, and 680.820;
(d) Programs that combine workplace training with related instruction, which may include cooperative education programs;
(e) Training programs operated by the private sector;
(f) Skills upgrading and retraining;
(g) Entrepreneurial training;
(h) Transitional jobs in accordance with WIOA sec 134(d)(5) and §§ 680.190 and 680.195;
(i) Job readiness training provided in combination with services listed in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section;
(j) Adult education and literacy activities, including activities of English language acquisition and integrated education and training programs, provided concurrently or in combination with training services listed in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section; and
(k) Customized training conducted with a commitment by an employer or group of employers to employ an individual upon successful completion of the training (
see
§§ 680.760 and 680.770).
§ 680.210
Who may receive training services?
Under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(A) training services may be made available to employed and unemployed adults and dislocated workers who:
(a) A one-stop center or one-stop partner determines, after an interview, evaluation, or assessment, and career planning, are:
(1) Unlikely or unable to obtain or retain employment that leads to economic self-sufficiency or wages comparable to or higher than wages from previous employment through career services;
(2) In need of training services to obtain or retain employment leading to economic self-sufficiency or wages comparable to or higher than wages from previous employment; and
(3) Have the skills and qualifications to participate successfully in training services;
(b) Select a program of training services that is directly linked to the employment opportunities in the local area or the planning region, or in another area to which the individuals are willing to commute or relocate;
(c) Are unable to obtain grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of such training, including such sources as State-funded training funds, Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), and Federal Pell Grants established under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, or require WIOA assistance in addition to other sources of grant assistance, including Federal Pell Grants (provisions relating to fund coordination are found at § 680.230 and WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(B)); and
(d) If training services are provided through the adult funding stream, are determined eligible in accordance with the State and local priority system in effect for adults under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(E) and § 680.600.
§ 680.220
Are there particular career services an individual must receive before receiving training services under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) Yes, except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, an individual must at a minimum receive either an interview, evaluation, or assessment, and career planning or any other method through which the one-stop center or partner can obtain enough information to make an eligibility determination to be determined eligible for training services under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(A)(i) and § 680.210. Where appropriate, a recent interview, evaluation, or assessment, may be used for the assessment purpose.
(b) The case file must contain a determination of need for training services under § 680.210 as determined through the interview, evaluation, or assessment, and career planning informed by local labor market information and training provider performance
information, or through any other career service received. There is no requirement that career services be provided as a condition to receipt of training services; however, if career services are not provided before training, the Local WDB must document the circumstances that justified its determination to provide training without first providing the services described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) There is no Federally required minimum time period for participation in career services before receiving training services.
§ 680.230
What are the requirements for coordination of Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act training funds and other grant assistance?
(a) WIOA funding for training is limited to participants who:
(1) Are unable to obtain grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of their training; or
(2) Require assistance beyond that available under grant assistance from other sources to pay the costs of such training. Programs and training providers must coordinate funds available to pay for training as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. In making the determination under this paragraph (a), one-stop centers may take into account the full cost of participating in training services, including the cost of support services and other appropriate costs.
(b) One-stop centers must coordinate training funds available and make funding arrangements with one-stop partners and other entities to apply the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. One-stop centers must consider the availability of other sources of grants to pay for training costs such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), State-funded training funds, and Federal Pell Grants, so that WIOA funds supplement other sources of training grants.
(c) A WIOA participant may enroll in WIOA-funded training while his/her application for a Pell Grant is pending as long as the one-stop center has made arrangements with the training provider and the WIOA participant regarding allocation of the Pell Grant, if it is subsequently awarded. In that case, the training provider must reimburse the one-stop center the WIOA funds used to underwrite the training for the amount the Pell Grant covers, including any education fees the training provider charges to attend training. Reimbursement is not required from the portion of Pell Grant assistance disbursed to the WIOA participant for education-related expenses.

# Subpart C—Individual Training Accounts
§ 680.300
How are training services provided?
Training services for eligible individuals are typically provided by training providers who receive payment for their services through an ITA. The ITA is a payment agreement established on behalf of a participant with a training provider. WIOA title I adult and dislocated workers purchase training services from State eligible training providers they select in consultation with the career planner, which includes discussion of program quality and performance information on the available eligible training providers. Payments from ITAs may be made in a variety of ways, including the electronic transfer of funds through financial institutions, vouchers, or other appropriate methods. Payments also may be made incrementally, for example, through payment of a portion of the costs at different points in the training course. Under limited conditions, as provided in § 680.320 and WIOA sec. 134(d)(3)(G), a Local WDB may contract for these services, rather than using an ITA for this purpose. In some limited circumstances, the Local WDB may itself provide the training services, but only if it obtains a waiver from the Governor for this purpose, and the Local WDB meets the other requirements of § 679.410 of this chapter and WIOA sec. 107(g)(1).
§ 680.310
Can the duration and amount of Individual Training Accounts be limited?
(a) Yes, the State or Local WDB may impose limits on ITAs, such as limitations on the dollar amount and/or duration.
(b) Limits to ITAs may be established in different ways:
(1) There may be a limit for an individual participant that is based on the needs identified in the IEP, such as the participant's occupational choice or goal and the level of training needed to succeed in that goal; or
(2) There may be a policy decision by the State WDB or Local WDB to establish a range of amounts and/or a maximum amount applicable to all ITAs.
(c) Limitations established by State or Local WDB policies must be described in the State or Local Plan, respectively, but must not be implemented in a manner that undermines WIOA's requirement that training services are provided in a manner that maximizes customer choice in the selection of an ETP. Exceptions to ITA limitations may be provided for individual cases and must be described in State or Local WDB policies.
(d) An individual may select training that costs more than the maximum amount available for ITAs under a State or local policy when other sources of funds are available to supplement the ITA. These other sources may include: Pell Grants; scholarships; severance pay; and other sources.
§ 680.320
Under what circumstances may mechanisms other than Individual Training Accounts be used to provide training services?
(a) Contracts for services may be used instead of ITAs only when one or more of the following five exceptions apply, and the local area has fulfilled the consumer choice requirements of § 680.340:
(1) When the services provided are on-the-job-training (OJT), customized training, incumbent worker training, or transitional jobs.
(2) When the Local WDB determines that there are an insufficient number of eligible training providers in the local area to accomplish the purpose of a system of ITAs. The determination process must include a public comment period for interested providers of at least 30 days, and be described in the Local Plan.
(3) When the Local WDB determines that there is a training services program of demonstrated effectiveness offered in the area by a community-based organization or another private organization to serve individuals with barriers to employment, as described in paragraph (b) of this section. The Local WDB must develop criteria to be used in determining demonstrated effectiveness, particularly as it applies to the individuals with barriers to employment to be served. The criteria may include:
(i) Financial stability of the organization;
(ii) Demonstrated performance in the delivery of services to individuals with barriers to employment through such means as program completion rate; attainment of the skills, certificates or degrees the program is designed to provide; placement after training in unsubsidized employment; and retention in employment; and
(iii) How the specific program relates to the workforce investment needs identified in the local plan.
(4) When the Local WDB determines that it would be most appropriate to contract with an institution of higher education (
see
WIOA sec. 3(28)) or other provider of training services in order to facilitate the training of multiple individuals in in-demand industry sectors or occupations, provided that the contract does not limit consumer choice.
(5) When the Local WDB is considering entering into a Pay-for-Performance contract, and the Local WDB ensures that the contract is consistent with § 683.510 of this chapter.
(b) Under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, individuals with barriers to employment include those individuals in one or more of the following categories, as prescribed by WIOA sec. 3(24):
(1) Displaced homemakers;
(2) Low-income individuals;
(3) Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians;
(4) Individuals with disabilities;
(5) Older individuals,
i.e.,
those aged 55 or over;
(6) Ex-offenders;
(7) Homeless individuals;
(8) Youth who are in or have aged out of the foster care system;
(9) Individuals who are English language learners, individuals who have
low levels of literacy, and individuals facing substantial cultural barriers;
(10) Eligible migrant and seasonal farmworkers, defined in WIOA sec. 167(i);
(11) Individuals within 2 years of exhausting lifetime eligibility under TANF (part A of title IV of the Social Security Act);
(12) Single-parents (including single pregnant women);
(13) Long-term unemployed individuals; or
(14) Other groups determined by the Governor to have barriers to employment.
(c) The Local Plan must describe the process to be used in selecting the providers under a contract for services.
§ 680.330
How can Individual Training Accounts, supportive services, and needs-related payments be used to support placing participating adults and dislocated workers into a registered apprenticeship program and support participants once they are in a registered apprenticeship program?
Registered apprenticeships automatically qualify to be a on a State's eligible training provider list (ETPL) as described in § 680.470.
(a) ITAs can be used to support placing participants in registered apprenticeship through:
(1) Pre-apprenticeship training, as defined in § 681.480 of this chapter; and
(2) Training services provided under a registered apprenticeship program.
(b) Supportive services may be provided as described in §§ 680.900 and 680.910.
(c) Needs-related payments may be provided as described in §§ 680.930, 680.940, 680.950, 680.960, and 680.970.
(d) Work-based training options also may be used to support participants in registered apprenticeship programs (
see
§§ 680.740 and 680.750).
§ 680.340
What are the requirements for consumer choice?
(a) Training services, whether under ITAs or under contract, must be provided in a manner that maximizes informed consumer choice in selecting an eligible provider.
(b) Each Local WDB, through the one-stop center, must make available to customers the State list of eligible training providers required in WIOA sec. 122(d). The list includes a description of the programs through which the providers may offer the training services, and the performance and cost information about those providers described in WIOA sec. 122(d). Additionally, the Local WDB must make available information identifying eligible providers as may be required by the Governor under WIOA sec. 122(h) (where applicable).
(c) An individual who has been determined eligible for training services under § 680.210 may select a provider described in paragraph (b) of this section after consultation with a career planner. Unless the program has exhausted training funds for the program year, the one-stop center must refer the individual to the selected provider, and establish an ITA for the individual to pay for training. For purposes of this paragraph (c), a referral may be carried out by providing a voucher or certificate to the individual to obtain the training.
(d) The cost of referral of an individual with an ITA to a training provider is paid by the applicable adult or dislocated worker program under title I of WIOA.
(e) Each Local WDB, through the one-stop center, may coordinate funding for ITAs with funding from other Federal, State, local, or private job training programs or sources to assist the individual in obtaining training services.
(f) Consistent with paragraph (a) of this section, priority consideration must be given to programs that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials (defined at WIOA sec. 3(52)) that are aligned with in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area.
§ 680.350
May Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I adult and dislocated worker funds be used to directly support adult education and literacy activities?
Yes, under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(D)(x), title I funds may provide adult education and literacy activities if they are provided concurrently or in combination with one or more of the following training services:
(a) Occupational skills training, including training for nontraditional employment;
(b) OJT;
(c) Incumbent worker training (as described in §§ 680.780, 680.790, 680.800, 680.810, and 680.820);
(d) Programs that combined workplace training and related instruction, which may include cooperative education programs;
(e) Training programs operated by the private sector;
(f) Skill upgrading and retraining; or
(g) Entrepreneurial training.

# Subpart D—Eligible Training Providers
§ 680.400
What is the purpose of this subpart?
(a) This subpart describes the process for determining eligible training providers and programs for WIOA title I, subtitle B adult, dislocated worker, and out-of-school youth (OSY) aged 16-24 training participants and for publicly disseminating the list of these providers with relevant information about their programs. The workforce development system established under WIOA emphasizes informed consumer choice, job-driven training, provider performance, and continuous improvement. The quality and selection of providers and programs of training services is vital to achieving these core principles.
(b) The State list of eligible training providers and programs and the related eligibility procedures ensure the accountability, quality and labor-market relevance of programs of training services that receive funds through WIOA title I, subtitle B. The State list of eligible training providers and programs also is a means for ensuring informed customer choice for individuals eligible for training. In administering the eligible training provider eligibility process, States and local areas must work to ensure that qualified providers offering a wide variety of job-driven programs of training services are available. The State list of eligible training providers and programs is made publicly available online through Web sites and searchable databases as well as any other means the State uses to disseminate information to consumers, including formats accessible to individuals with disabilities. The list must be accompanied by relevant performance and cost information and must be presented in a way that is easily understood, in order to maximize informed consumer choice and serve all significant population groups, and also must be available in an electronic format. The State eligible training provider performance reports, as required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(4), are addressed separately in § 677.230 of this chapter.
§ 680.410
What is an eligible training provider?
An ETP:
(a) Is the only type of entity that receives funding for training services, as defined in § 680.200, through an individual training account;
(b) Must be included on the State list of eligible training providers and programs under this subpart;
(c) Must provide a program of training services; and
(d) Must be one of the following types of entities:
(1) Institutions of higher education that provide a program which leads to a recognized postsecondary credential;
(2) Entities that carry out programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50
et seq.
); or
(3) Other public or private providers of training services, which may include:
(i) Community-based organizations;
(ii) Joint labor-management organizations; and
(iii) Eligible providers of adult education and literacy activities under title II of WIOA if such activities are provided in combination with training services described at § 680.350.
§ 680.420
What is a “program of training services”?
A program of training services is one or more courses or classes, or a structured regimen, that provides the services in § 680.200 and leads to:
(a) An industry-recognized certificate or certification, a certificate of completion of a registered apprenticeship, a license recognized by the State involved or the Federal government, an associate or baccalaureate degree;
(b) Consistent with § 680.350, a secondary school diploma or its equivalent;
(c) Employment; or
(d) Measurable skill gains toward a credential described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section or employment.
§ 680.430
Who is responsible for managing the training provider eligibility process?
(a) The Governor, in consultation with the State WDB, establishes the criteria, information requirements, and procedures, including procedures identifying the respective roles of the State and local areas, governing the eligibility of providers and programs of training services to receive funds through ITAs.
(b) The Governor may designate a State agency (or appropriate State entity) to assist in carrying out the process and procedures for determining the eligibility of training providers and programs of training services. The Governor or such agency (or appropriate State entity) is responsible for:
(1) Ensuring the development and maintenance of the State list of eligible training providers and programs, as described in §§ 680.450 (initial eligibility), 680.460 (continued eligibility), and 680.490 (performance and cost information reporting requirements);
(2) Ensuring that programs meet eligibility criteria and performance levels established by the State, including verifying the accuracy of the information;
(3) Removing programs that do not meet State-established program criteria or performance levels, as described in § 680.480(c);
(4) Taking appropriate enforcement actions against providers that intentionally provide inaccurate information, or that substantially violate the requirements of WIOA, as described in § 680.480(a) and (b); and
(5) Disseminating the State list of eligible training providers and programs, accompanied by performance and cost information relating to each program, to the public and the Local WDBs throughout the State, as further described in § 680.500.
(c) The Local WDB must:
(1) Carry out the procedures assigned to the Local WDB by the State, such as determining the initial eligibility of entities providing a program of training services, renewing the eligibility of providers and programs, and considering the possible termination of an eligible training provider due to the provider's submission of inaccurate eligibility and performance information or the provider's substantial violation of WIOA requirements;
(2) Work with the State to ensure there are sufficient numbers and types of providers of training services, including eligible providers with expertise in assisting individuals with disabilities and eligible providers with expertise in assisting adults in need of adult education and literacy activities described under WIOA sec. 107(d)(10)(E), serving the local area; and
(3) Ensure the dissemination and appropriate use of the State list of eligible training providers and programs through the local one-stop delivery system, including formats accessible to individuals with disabilities.
(d) The Local WDB may make recommendations to the Governor on the procedure used in determining eligibility of providers and programs.
(e) The Local WDB may, except with respect to registered apprenticeship programs:
(1) Require additional criteria and information from local providers as criteria to become or remain eligible in that local area; and
(2) Set higher levels of performance than those required by the State as criteria for local programs to become or remain eligible to provide services in that local area.
§ 680.440
[Reserved]
§ 680.450
What is the initial eligibility process for new providers and programs?
(a) All providers and programs that have not previously been eligible to provide training services under WIOA sec. 122 or WIA sec. 122, except for registered apprenticeship programs, must submit required information to be considered for initial eligibility in accordance with the Governor's procedures.
(b) Apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act are exempt from initial eligibility procedures. Registered apprenticeship programs must be included and maintained on the State list of eligible training providers and programs as long as the program remains registered, unless the registered apprenticeship program is removed from the list for a reason set forth in § 680.470. Procedures for registered apprenticeship programs to be included and maintained on the list are described in § 680.470.
(c) In establishing the State requirements described in paragraph (e) of this section, the Governor must, in consultation with the State WDB, develop a procedure for determining the eligibility of training providers and programs. This procedure, which must be described in the State Plan, must be developed after:
(1) Soliciting and taking into consideration recommendations from Local WDBs and providers of training services within the State;
(2) Providing an opportunity for interested members of the public, including representatives of business and labor organizations, to submit comments on the procedure; and
(3) Designating a specific time period for soliciting and considering the recommendations of Local WDBs and providers, and for providing an opportunity for public comment.
(d) For institutions of higher education that provide a program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential and for other public or private providers of programs of training services, including joint labor-management organizations, and providers of adult education and literacy activities, the Governor must establish criteria and State requirements for providers and programs seeking initial eligibility.
(e) The Governor must require providers and programs seeking initial eligibility to provide verifiable program specific performance information. At a minimum, these criteria must require applicant providers to:
(1) Describe each program of training services to be offered;
(2) Provide information addressing a factor related to the indicators of performance, as described in WIOA secs. 116(b)(2)(A)(i)(I)-(IV) and § 680.460(g)(1) through (4) which include unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit, unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit, median earnings and credentials attainment;
(3) Describe whether the provider is in a partnership with a business;
(4) Provide other information the Governor may require in order to demonstrate high quality programs of training services, which may include information related to training services that lead to a recognized postsecondary credential; and
(5) Provide information that addresses alignment of the training services with in-demand industry sectors and occupations, to the extent possible.
(f) In establishing the initial eligibility procedures and criteria, the Governor may establish minimum performance standards, based on the performance information described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(g) Under WIOA sec. 122(b)(4)(B), eligible training providers receive initial eligibility for only 1 year for a particular program.
(h) After the initial eligibility expires, these initially eligible training providers are subject to the Governor's application procedures for continued eligibility, described at § 680.460, in order to remain eligible.
§ 680.460
What is the application procedure for continued eligibility?
(a) The Governor must establish an application procedure for eligible training providers and programs to maintain their continued eligibility. The application procedure must take into account the program's prior eligibility status.
(1) Training providers and programs that were previously eligible under WIA will be subject to the application procedure for continued eligibility after the close of the Governor's transition period for implementation.
(2) Training providers and programs that were not previously eligible under WIA and have been determined to be initially eligible under WIOA, under
the procedures described at § 680.450, will be subject to the application procedure for continued eligibility after their initial eligibility expires.
(b) The Governor must develop this procedure after:
(1) Soliciting and taking into consideration recommendations from Local WDBs and providers of training services within the State;
(2) Providing an opportunity for interested members of the public, including representatives of business and labor organizations, to submit comments on such procedure; and
(3) Designating a specific time period for soliciting and considering the recommendations of Local WDBs and providers, and for providing an opportunity for public comment.
(c) Procedures for registered apprenticeship programs to be included and maintained on the list are described in § 680.470. Apprenticeship programs registered under the National Apprenticeship Act must be included and maintained on the State list of eligible training providers and programs as long as the program remains registered, unless the registered apprenticeship program is removed from the list for a reason set forth in § 680.470.
(d) The application procedure must describe the roles of the State and local areas in receiving and reviewing provider applications and in making eligibility determinations.
(e) The application procedure must be described in the State Plan.
(f) In establishing eligibility criteria, the Governor must take into account:
(1) The performance of the eligible training provider's program on:
(i) The performance accountability measures described in WIOA secs. 116(b)(2)(A)(i)(I)-(IV) and the other matters required by WIOA sec. 122(b)(2);
(ii) Other appropriate measures of performance outcomes determined by the Governor for program participants receiving training services under WIOA title I, subtitle B, taking into consideration the characteristics of the population served and relevant economic conditions; and
(iii) Outcomes of the program for students in general with respect to employment and earnings as defined in WIOA sec. 116(b)(2).
(iv) All of these measures may include minimum performance standards.
(v) Until data from the conclusion of each performance indicator's first data cycle are available, the Governor may take into account alternate factors related to the measures described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(2) Ensuring access to training services throughout the State, including in rural areas, and through the use of technology;
(3) Information reported to State agencies on Federal and State training programs other than programs within WIOA title I, subtitle B;
(4) The degree to which programs of training services relate to in-demand industry sectors and occupations in the State;
(5) State licensure requirements of training providers;
(6) Encouraging the use of industry-recognized certificates and credentials;
(7) The ability of providers to offer programs of training services that lead to postsecondary credentials;
(8) The quality of the program of training services including a program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential;
(9) The ability of the providers to provide training services to individuals who are employed and individuals with barriers to employment;
(10) Whether the providers timely and accurately submitted all of the information required for completion of eligible training provider performance reports required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(4) and all of the information required for initial and continued eligibility in this subpart; and
(11) Other factors that the Governor determines are appropriate in order to ensure: The accountability of providers; that one-stop centers in the State will meet the needs of local employers and participants; and, that participants will be given an informed choice among providers.
(g) The information requirements that the Governor establishes under
paragraph (f)(1) of this section must require eligible training providers to submit appropriate, accurate, and timely information for participants receiving training under WIOA title I, subtitle B. That information must include:
(1) The percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(2) The percentage of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;
(3) The median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;
(4) The percentage of program participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential, or a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program;
(5) Information on recognized postsecondary credentials received by program participants;
(6) Information on cost of attendance, including costs of tuition and fees, for program participants;
(7) Information on the program completion rate for such participants.
(h) The eligibility criteria must require that:
(1) Providers submit performance and cost information as described in paragraph (g) of this section and in the Governor's procedures for each program of training services for which the provider has been determined to be eligible, in a timeframe and manner determined by the State, but at least every 2 years; and
(2) That the collection of information required to demonstrate compliance with the criteria is not unduly burdensome or costly to providers.
(i) The procedure for continued eligibility also must provide for the State biennially to review provider eligibility information to assess the renewal of training provider eligibility. Such procedures may establish minimum levels of training provider performance as criteria for continued eligibility.
(j) The procedure for biennial review of the provider eligibility must include verification of the registration status of registered apprenticeship programs and removal of any registered apprenticeship programs as described in § 680.470.
(k) The Governor may establish procedures and timeframes for providing technical assistance to eligible training providers who are not intentionally supplying inaccurate information or who have not substantially violated any of the requirements under this section but are failing to meet the criteria and information requirements due to undue cost or burden.
(l) The Governor's procedures must include what the Governor considers to be a substantial violation of the requirement to timely and accurately submit all of the information required for completion of the eligible training provider performance reports required under WIOA sec. 116(d)(4) and all of the information required for initial and continued eligibility in this subpart.
(1) The Governor's procedures on determining a substantial violation must take into account exceptional circumstances beyond the provider's control, such as natural disasters, unexpected personnel transitions, and unexpected technology-related issues.
(2) Providers who substantially violate the requirement in paragraph (g) of this section to timely and accurately submit all required information must be removed from the State list of eligible training providers and programs, as provided in § 680.480(b).
§ 680.470
What are the procedures for including and removing registered apprenticeship programs on a State list of eligible training providers and programs?
(a) All registered apprenticeship programs that are registered with the U.S. Department of Labor, Office of Apprenticeship, or a recognized State apprenticeship agency, are automatically eligible to be included in the State list of eligible training providers and programs. All registered apprenticeship programs must be informed of their automatic eligibility to be included on the list, and must be provided an opportunity to consent to their inclusion, before being placed on the State list of eligible training providers and programs. The Governor must establish a
mechanism for registered apprenticeship program sponsors in the State to be informed of their automatic eligibility and to indicate that the program sponsor wishes to be included on the State list of eligible training providers and programs. This mechanism must place minimal burden on registered apprenticeship program sponsors and must be developed in accordance with guidance from the U.S. Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship or with the assistance of the recognized State apprenticeship agency, as applicable.
(b) Once on the State list of eligible training providers and programs, registered apprenticeship programs will remain on the list:
(1) Until they are deregistered;
(2) Until the registered apprenticeship program notifies the State that it no longer wants to be included on the list; or
(3) Until the registered apprenticeship program is determined to have intentionally supplied inaccurate information or to have substantially violated any provision of title I of WIOA or the WIOA regulations, including 29 CFR part 38.
(c) A registered apprenticeship program whose eligibility is terminated under paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be terminated for not less than 2 years and is liable to repay all youth, adult, and dislocated worker training funds it received during the period of noncompliance. The Governor must specify in the procedures required by § 680.480 which individual or entity is responsible for making these determinations and the process by which the determination will be made, which must include an opportunity for a hearing that meets the requirements of § 683.630(b) of this chapter.
(d) Inclusion of a registered apprenticeship in the State list of eligible training providers and programs allows an individual who is eligible to use WIOA title I, subtitle B funds to use those funds toward registered apprenticeship training, consistent with their availability and limitations as prescribed by § 680.300. The use of ITAs and other WIOA title I, subtitle B funds toward registered apprenticeship training is further described in § 680.330.
(e) The Governor is encouraged to consult with the State and Local WDBs, ETA's Office of Apprenticeship, recognized State apprenticeship agencies (where they exist in the Governor's State) or other State agencies, to establish voluntary reporting of performance information.
(f) Pre-apprenticeship providers that wish to provide training services to participants using WIOA title I, subtitle B funds are subject to the eligibility procedures of this subpart.
§ 680.480
May an eligible training provider lose its eligibility?
(a) Yes. A training provider must meet the Governors requirements for eligibility and provide accurate information in order to retain its status as an eligible training provider.
(b) Providers determined to have intentionally supplied inaccurate information or to have substantially violated any provision of title I of WIOA or the WIOA regulations, including 29 CFR part 38, must be removed from the State list of eligible training providers and programs in accordance with the enforcement provisions of WIOA sec. 122(f). A provider whose eligibility is terminated under these conditions must be terminated for not less than 2 years and is liable to repay all youth, adult, and dislocated worker training funds it received during the period of noncompliance. The Governor must specify in the procedures which individual or entity is responsible for making these determinations and the process by which the determination will be made, which must include an opportunity for a hearing that meets the requirements of § 683.630(b) of this chapter.
(c) As a part of the biennial review of eligibility established by the Governor, the State must remove programs of training services that fail to meet criteria established by the Governor to remain eligible, which may include failure to meet established minimum performance levels. Registered apprenticeship programs only may be removed for the reasons set forth in § 680.470.
(d) The Governor must establish an appeals procedure for providers of training services to appeal a denial of eligibility under this subpart that
meets the requirements of § 683.630(b) of this chapter, which explains the appeals process for denial or termination of eligibility of a provider of training services.
(e) Where a Local WDB has established higher minimum performance standards, according to § 680.430(e), the Local WDB may remove a program of training services from the eligible programs in that local area for failure to meet those higher performance standards. Training providers may appeal a denial of eligibility under § 683.630(b) of this chapter.
§ 680.490
What kind of performance and cost information must eligible training providers other than registered apprenticeship programs provide for each program of training services?
(a) In accordance with the State procedure under § 680.460(i), eligible training providers, except registered apprenticeship programs, must submit, at least every 2 years, appropriate, timely, and accurate performance and cost information.
(b) Program-specific performance information must include:
(1) The information described in WIOA sec. 122(b)(2)(A) for individuals participating in the programs of training services who are receiving assistance under WIOA. This information includes indicators of performance as described in WIOA secs. 116(b)(2)(I)-(IV) and § 680.460(g)(1) through (4);
(2) Information identifying the recognized postsecondary credentials received by such participants in § 680.460(g)(5);
(3) Program cost information, including tuition and fees, for WIOA participants in the program in § 680.460(g)(6); and
(4) Information on the program completion rate for WIOA participants in § 680.460(g)(7).
(c) Governors may require any additional performance information (such as the information described at WIOA sec. 122(b)(1)) that the Governor determines to be appropriate to determine, maintain eligibility, or better to inform consumers.
(d) Governors must establish a procedure by which a provider can demonstrate that providing additional information required under this section would be unduly burdensome or costly. If the Governor determines that providers have demonstrated such extraordinary costs or undue burden:
(1) The Governor must provide access to cost-effective methods for the collection of the information;
(2) The Governor may provide additional resources to assist providers in the collection of the information from funds for statewide workforce investment activities reserved under WIOA secs. 128(a) and 133(a)(1); or
(3) The Governor may take other steps to assist eligible training providers in collecting and supplying required information such as offering technical assistance.
§ 680.500
How is the State list of eligible training providers and programs disseminated?
(a) In order to assist participants in choosing employment and training activities, the Governor or State agency must disseminate the State list of eligible training providers and programs and accompanying performance and cost information to Local WDBs in the State and to members of the public online, including through Web sites and searchable databases, and through whatever other means the State uses to disseminate information to consumers, including the one-stop delivery system and its program partners throughout the State.
(b) The State list of eligible training providers and programs and information must be updated regularly and provider and program eligibility must be reviewed biennially according to the procedures established by the Governor in § 680.460(i).
(c) In order to ensure informed consumer choice, the State list of eligible training providers and programs and accompanying information must be widely available to the public through electronic means, including Web sites and searchable databases, as well as through any other means the State uses to disseminate information to consumers. The list and accompanying information must be available through the one-stop delivery system and its partners including the State's secondary and postsecondary education
systems. The list must be accessible to individuals seeking information on training outcomes, as well as participants in employment and training activities funded under WIOA, including those under § 680.210, and other programs. In accordance with WIOA sec. 188, the State list also must be accessible to individuals with disabilities.
(d) The State list of eligible training providers and programs must be accompanied by appropriate information to assist participants in choosing employment and programs of training services. Such information must include:
(1) Recognized postsecondary credential(s) offered;
(2) Provider information supplied to meet the Governor's eligibility procedure as described in §§ 680.450 and 680.460;
(3) Performance and cost information as described in § 680.490; and
(4) Additional information as the Governor determines appropriate.
(e) The State list of eligible training providers and programs and accompanying information must be made available in a manner that does not reveal personally identifiable information about an individual participant. In addition, in developing the information to accompany the State list described in § 680.490(b), disclosure of personally identifiable information from an education record must be carried out in accordance with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, including the circumstances relating to prior written consent.
§ 680.510
In what ways can a Local Workforce Development Board supplement the information available from the State list of eligible training providers and programs?
(a) Local WDBs may supplement the criteria and information requirements established by the Governor in order to support informed consumer choice and the achievement of local performance indicators. However, the Local WDB may not do so for registered apprenticeship programs.
(b) This additional information may include:
(1) Information on programs of training services that are linked to occupations in demand in the local area;
(2) Performance and cost information, including program-specific performance and cost information, for the local outlet(s) of multi-site eligible training providers;
(3) Information that shows how programs are responsive to local requirements; and
(4) Other appropriate information related to the objectives of WIOA.
§ 680.520
May individuals choose training providers and programs located outside of the local area or outside of the State?
(a) An individual may choose training providers and programs outside of the local area provided the training program is on the State list, in accordance with local policies and procedures.
(b) An individual may choose eligible training providers and programs outside of the State consistent with State and local policies and procedures. State policies and procedures may provide for reciprocal or other agreements established with another State to permit eligible training providers in a State to accept ITAs provided by the other State.
§ 680.530
What eligibility requirements apply to providers of on-the-job-training, customized training, incumbent worker training, and other training exceptions?
(a) Providers of on-the-job training, customized training, incumbent worker training, internships, paid or unpaid work experience, or transitional jobs are not subject to the requirements applicable to entities listed on the eligible training provider list, and are not included on the State list of eligible training providers and programs.
(b) For providers of training described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Governor may establish performance criteria those providers must meet to receive funds under the adult or dislocated worker programs pursuant to a contract as provided in § 680.320.
(c) One-stop operators in a local area must collect such performance information as the Governor may require and determine whether the providers meet any performance criteria the
Governor may establish under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) One-stop operators must disseminate information identifying providers and programs that have met the Governor's performance criteria, along with the relevant performance information about them, through the one-stop delivery system.

# Subpart E—Priority and Special Populations
§ 680.600
What priority must be given to low-income adults and public assistance recipients and individuals who are basic skills deficient served with adult funds under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(E) states that priority for individualized career services (
see
§ 678.430(b) of this chapter) and training services funded with title I adult funds must be given to recipients of public assistance, other low-income individuals, and individuals who are basic skills deficient (as defined in WIOA sec. 3(5)(B)) in the local area.
(b) States and local areas must establish criteria by which the one-stop center will apply the priority under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(E). Such criteria may include the availability of other funds for providing employment and training-related services in the local area, the needs of the specific groups within the local area, and other appropriate factors.
(c) The priority established under paragraph (a) of this section does not necessarily mean that these services only may be provided to recipients of public assistance, other low-income individuals, and individuals who are basic skills deficient. The Local WDB and the Governor may establish a process that also gives priority to other individuals eligible to receive such services, provided that it is consistent with priority of service for veterans (
see
§ 680.650) and the priority provisions of WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(E), discussed above in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 680.610
Does the statutory priority for use of adult funds also apply to dislocated worker funds?
No, the statutory priority only applies to adult funds and only applies to providing individualized career services, as described in § 680.150(b), and training services. Funds allocated for dislocated workers are not subject to this requirement.
§ 680.620
How does the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program relate to the one-stop delivery system?
The local TANF program is a required partner in the one-stop delivery system. Part 678 of this chapter describes the roles of such partners in the one-stop delivery system and it applies to the TANF program. TANF serves individuals who also may be served by the WIOA programs and, through appropriate linkages and referrals, these customers will have access to a broader range of services through the cooperation of the TANF program in the one-stop delivery system. TANF participants, who are determined to be WIOA eligible, and who need occupational skills training may be referred through the one-stop delivery system to receive WIOA training, when TANF grant and other grant funds are not available to the individual in accordance with § 680.230(a). WIOA participants who also are determined TANF eligible may be referred to the TANF program for assistance.
§ 680.630
How does a displaced homemaker qualify for services under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
(a) Individuals who meet the definitions of a “displaced homemaker” (
see
WIOA sec. 3(16)) qualify for career and training services with dislocated worker title I funds.
(b) Displaced homemakers also may qualify for career and training services with adult funds under title I if the requirements of this part are met (
see
§§ 680.120 and 680.600).
(c) Displaced homemakers also may be served in statewide employment and training projects conducted with reserve funds for innovative programs for
displaced homemakers, as described in § 682.210(c) of this chapter.
(d) The definition of displaced homemaker includes the dependent spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty (as defined in sec. 101(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code) and whose family income is significantly reduced because of a deployment, a call or order to active duty under a provision of law referred to in sec. 101(a)(13)(B) of title 10, United State Code, a permanent change of station, or the service-connected death or disability of the member.
§ 680.640
May an individual with a disability whose family does not meet income eligibility criteria under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act be eligible for priority as a low-income adult?
Yes, even if the family of an individual with a disability does not meet the income eligibility criteria, the individual with a disability is to be considered a low-income individual if the individual's own income:
(a) Meets the income criteria established in WIOA sec. 3(36)(A)(vi); or
(b) Meets the income eligibility criteria for payments under any Federal, State or local public assistance program (see WIOA sec. 3(36)(A)(i)).
§ 680.650
Do veterans receive priority of service under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
Yes, veterans, as defined under WIOA sec. 3(63)(A) and 38 U.S.C. 101, receive priority of service in all Department of Labor-funded training programs under 38 U.S.C. 4215 and described in 20 CFR part 1010. A veteran still must meet each program's eligibility criteria to receive services under the respective employment and training program. For income-based eligibility determinations, amounts paid while on active duty or paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for vocational rehabilitation, disability payments, or related VA-funded programs are not to be considered as income, in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 4213 and § 683.230 of this chapter.
§ 680.660
Are separating military service members eligible for dislocated worker activities under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?
If the separating service member is separating from the Armed Forces with a discharge that is anything other than dishonorable, the separating service member qualifies for dislocated worker activities based on the following criteria:
(a) The separating service member has received a notice of separation, a DD-214 from the Department of Defense, or other documentation showing a separation or imminent separation from the Armed Forces to satisfy the termination or layoff part of the dislocated worker eligibility criteria in WIOA sec. 3(15)(A)(i);
(b) The separating service member qualifies for the dislocated worker eligibility criteria on eligibility for or exhaustion of unemployment compensation in WIOA sec. 3(15)(A)(ii)(I) or (II); and,
(c) As a separating service member, the individual meets the dislocated worker eligibility criteria that the individual is unlikely to return to a previous industry or occupation in WIOA sec. 3(15)(A)(iii).

# Subpart F—Work-Based Training
§ 680.700
What are the requirements for on-the-job training?
