(f) The volumetric flow rate through each fan of the capture system must be determined from the fan power consumption, fan pressure drop, and fan performance curve specified under paragraph (e) of this section, during any performance test required under § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with the standards under §§ 60.262(a)(4) and (5). The owner or operator shall determine the volumetric flow rate at a representative temperature for furnace power input levels of 50 and 100 percent of the nominal rated capacity of the electric submerged arc furnace. At all times the electric submerged arc furnace is operated, the owner or operator shall maintain the fan power consumption and fan pressure drop at levels such that the volumetric flow rate is at or above the levels established during
the most recent performance test for that furnace power input level. If emissions due to tapping are captured and ducted separately from emissions of the electric submerged arc furnace, during each tapping period the owner or operator shall maintain the fan power consumption and fan pressure drop at levels such that the volumetric flow rate is at or above the levels established during the most recent performance test. Operation at lower flow rates may be considered by the Administrator to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility. The owner or operator may request that these flow rates be reestablished by conducting new performance tests under § 60.8. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to verify the fan performance curve by monitoring necessary fan operating parameters and determining the gas volume moved relative to Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A to this part.
(g) All monitoring devices required under paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section are to be checked for calibration annually in accordance with the procedures under § 60.13(b).
§ 60.266
Test methods and procedures.
(a) During any performance test required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall not allow gaseous diluents to be added to the effluent gas stream after the fabric in an open pressurized fabric filter collector unless the total gas volume flow from the collector is accurately determined and considered in the determination of emissions.
(b) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.262 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
EC16NO91.012
where:
E = emission rate of particulate matter, kg/MW-hr (1b/MW-hr).
n = total number of exhaust streams at which emissions are quantified.
c
si
= concentration of particulate matter from exhaust stream “i”, g/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from exhaust stream “i”, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = average furnace power input, MW.
K = conversion factor, 1000 g/kg (7000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c
si
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sdi
) of the effluent gas, except that the heating systems specified in sections 2.1.2 and 2.1.6 are not to be used when the carbon monoxide content of the gas stream exceeds 10 percent by volume, dry basis. If a flare is used to comply with § 60.263, the sampling site shall be upstream of the flare. The sampling time shall include an integral number of furnace cycles.
(i) When sampling emissions from open electric submerged arc furnaces with wet scrubber control devices, sealed electric submerged arc furnaces, or semienclosed electric arc furnaces, the sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 1.80 dscm (63.6 dscf).
(ii) When sampling emissions from other types of installations, the sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 200 minutes and 5.66 dscm (200 dscf).
(3) The measurement device of § 60.265(b) shall be used to determine the average furnace power input (P) during each run.
(4) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(5) The emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling procedure of Method 3B shall be used to determine the CO concentration. The sample shall be taken simultaneously with each particulate matter sample.
(d) During the particulate matter run, the maximum open hood area (in hoods with segmented or otherwise moveable sides) under which the process is expected to be operated and remain in compliance with all standards shall be recorded. Any future operation of the hooding system with open areas
in excess of the maximum is not permitted.
(e) To comply with § 60.265 (d) or (f), the owner or operator shall use the monitoring devices in § 60.265 (c) or (e) to make the required measurements as determined during the performance test.
[54 FR 6671, Feb. 14, 1989; 54 FR 21344, May 17, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 5212, Feb. 14, 1990; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart AA—Standards of Performance for Steel Plants: Electric Arc Furnaces Constructed After October 21, 1974, and On or Before August 17, 1983
§ 60.270
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in steel plants that produce carbon, alloy, or specialty steels: electric arc furnaces and dust-handling systems.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after October 21, 1974, and on or before August 17, 1983, where a modification is any physical change in, or change in the method of operation of, an existing facility which increases the amount of any air pollutant (to which this standard applies) emitted into the atmosphere by that facility or which results in the emission of any air pollutant (to which this standard applies) into the atmosphere not previously emitted.
[49 FR 43843, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 88 FR 58475, Aug. 25, 2023]
§ 60.271
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Electric arc furnace (EAF)
means a furnace that produces molten steel and heats the charge materials with electricity using carbon electrodes. Furnaces that continuously feed direct-reduced iron ore pellets as the primary source of iron are not affected facilities within the scope of this definition.
(b)
Dust-handling equipment
means any equipment used to handle particulate matter collected by the control device and located at or near the control device for an EAF subject to this subpart.
(c)
Control device
means the air pollution control equipment used to remove particulate matter generated by an EAF(s) from the effluent gas stream.
(d)
Capture system
means the equipment (including ducts, hoods, fans, dampers, etc.) used to capture particulate matter generated by the operation of an EAF and transport captured particulate matter to the air pollution control device.
(e)
Charge
means the addition of iron and steel scrap or other materials into the shell of an electric arc furnace.
(f)
Charging period
means the time period when iron and steel scrap or other materials are added into the top of an EAF until the melting and refining period commences.
(g)
Tap
means the pouring of molten steel from an EAF.
(h)
Tapping period
means the time period commencing at the moment an EAF begins to pour molten steel and ending either three minutes after steel ceases to flow from an EAF, or six minutes after steel begins to flow, whichever is longer.
(i)
Melting and refining
means that phase of the steel production cycle when charge material is melted and undesirable elements are removed from the metal.
(j)
Melting and refining period
means the time period commencing at the initial energizing of the electrode to begin the melting process and ending at the initiation of the tapping period, excluding any intermediate times when the electrodes are not energized as part of the melting process.
(k)
Shop opacity
means the arithmetic average of 24 or more opacity observations of any EAF emissions emanating from, and not within, the shop, taken in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part. Alternatively, ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), may be used with the following five conditions:
(1) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand);
(2) The owner or operator must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17);
(3) The owner or operator must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 60.7(f) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination;
(4) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of anyone reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity;
(5) Use of this approved alternative does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) and these requirements is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.
(l)
Heat time
means the period commencing when scrap is charged to an empty EAF and terminating when the EAF tap is completed.
(m)
Shop
means the building that houses one or more EAF's and serves as the point from which compliance with § 60.272(a)(3), “Standard for Particulate Matter,” is measured.
(n)
Direct shell evacuation system
means any system that creates and maintains a negative pressure within the EAF shell during melting and refining, and transports emissions to the control device.
(o)
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other conditions that result in increases in particulate loadings. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, electrodynamic, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
(p)
Damper
means any device used to open, close or throttle a DEC system or hood designed to capture emissions from an EAF and route them to the associated control device(s). It does not include isolation dampers used to isolate a fan or baghouse compartment for repair or cleaning, or dampers controlling collection of emissions from equipment other than an EAF.
(q)
Negative-pressure fabric filter
means a fabric filter with the fans on the downstream side of the filter bags.
(r)
Positive-pressure fabric filter
means a fabric filter with the fans on the upstream side of the filter bags.
[40 FR 43852, Sept. 23, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 43843, Oct. 31, 1984; 64 FR 10109, Mar. 2, 1999; 70 FR 8530, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58475, Aug. 25, 2023]
§ 60.272
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from an electric arc furnace any gases which:
(1) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 12 mg/dscm (0.0052 gr/dscf).
(2) Exit from a control device and exhibit three percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
(3) Exit from a shop and, due solely to operations of any EAF(s), exhibit 6 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271. Shop opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission sites relate to only one incident of visible emissions, only one observation of shop opacity will be required. In this case, the shop opacity observations must be made for the site of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident, except:
(i) Shop opacity less than 20 percent may occur during charging periods.
(ii) Shop opacity less than 40 percent may occur during tapping periods.
(iii) The shop opacity standards under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall apply only during periods when the monitoring parameter limits specified in § 60.274(b) are being established according to § 60.274(c) and (g), unless the owner or operator elects to perform daily shop opacity observations in lieu of furnace static pressure monitoring as provided for under § 60.273(d).
(iv) Where the capture system is operated such that the roof of the shop is closed during the charge and the tap, and emissions to the atmosphere are prevented until the roof is opened after completion of the charge or tap, the shop opacity standards under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall apply when the roof is opened and shall continue to apply for the length of time defined by the charging and/or tapping periods.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from dust-handling equipment any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
[40 FR 43852, Sept. 23, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 43843, Oct. 31, 1984; 64 FR 10109, Mar. 2, 1999; 88 FR 58476, Aug. 25, 2023]
§ 60.273
Emission monitoring.
(a) A continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s) shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated by the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(b) For the purpose of reports under § 60.7(c), all six-minute periods during which the average opacity is three percent or greater shall indicate a period of excess emission, and shall be reported to the Administrator semi-annually.
(c)(1) A continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s) is not required:
(i) On any modular, multistack, negative-pressure or positive-pressure fabric filter if observations of the opacity of the visible emission from the control device are performed by a certified visible emission observer; or
(ii) On any single-stack fabric filter if observations of the opacity of the visible emissions from the control device are performed by a certified visible emission observer and the owner installs and operates a bag leak detection system according to paragraph (e) of this section whenever the control device is being used to remove particulate matter from the EAF.
(2) Visible emission observations shall be conducted at least once per day of the control device for at least three 6-minute periods when the furnace is operating in the melting and refining period. All visible emissions observations shall be conducted in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
(3) If visible emissions occur from more than one point, the opacity shall
be recorded for any points where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission points relate to only one incident of the visible emission, only one set of three 6-minute observations will be required. In that case, EPA Method 9 observations must be made for the point of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident. Records shall be maintained of any 6-minute average that is in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272(a)(2).
(d) A furnace static pressure monitoring device is not required on any EAF equipped with a DEC system if observations of shop opacity are performed by a certified visible emission observer as follows:
(1) At least once per day when the furnace is operating.
(2) No less than once per week, during a heat time as defined in § 60.271, a melt shop with more than one EAF shall conduct these readings while all EAFs are in operation. All EAFs are not required to be on the same schedule for tapping.
(3) Shop opacity shall be determined as the arithmetic average of 24 or more consecutive 15-second opacity observations of emissions from the shop taken in accordance with EPA Method 9, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271. Shop opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) where visible emissions are observed in proximity to an affected EAF. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission points relate to only one incident of visible emissions, only one observation of shop opacity will be required. In this case, the shop opacity observations must be made for the point of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident.
(e) A bag leak detection system must be installed on all single-stack fabric filters and operated whenever the control device is being used to remove particulate matter from the EAF if the owner or operator elects not to install and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system as provided for under paragraph (c) of this section. In addition, the owner or operator shall meet the visible emissions observation requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. The bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(2) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings and the owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (
e.g.
, using a strip chart recorder or a data logger.)
(3) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will activate when an increase in relative particulate loading is detected over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be identified by the appropriate plant personnel.
(4) For each bag leak detection system required by paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority, for approval, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the items identified in paragraphs (i) through (v) of this paragraph (e)(4). For each bag leak detection system that operates based on the triboelectric effect, the monitoring plan shall be consistent with the recommendations contained in EPA-454/R-98-015, Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). The owner or operator shall operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. The plan shall describe:
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list; and
(v) How the bag leak detection system output shall be recorded and stored.
(5) The initial adjustment of the system shall, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time (if applicable).
(6) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided for in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Once per quarter, the owner or operator may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects including temperature and humidity according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required under paragraphs (e)(4) of this section.
(ii) If opacities greater than zero percent are observed over four consecutive 15-second observations during the daily opacity observations required under paragraph (c) of this section and the alarm on the bag leak detection system alarm is not activated, the owner or operator shall lower the alarm set point on the bag leak detection system to a point where the alarm would have been activated during the period when the opacity observations were made.
(7) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the bag leak detection sensor must be installed downstream of the baghouse or upstream of any wet scrubber.
(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(f) For each bag leak detection system installed according to paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall initiate procedures to determine the cause of all alarms within 1 hour of an alarm. The cause of the alarm must be alleviated within 24 hours of the time the alarm occurred by taking whatever response action(s) are necessary. Response actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(1) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may have caused an increase in particulate emissions;
(2) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(3) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(4) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;
(5) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system;
(6) Establishing to the extent acceptable by the delegated authority that the alarm was a false alarm and not caused by a bag leak or other malfunction that could reasonably result in excess particulate emissions; or
(7) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(g) In approving the site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners or operators more than 24 hours to alleviate specific conditions that cause an alarm if the owner or operator identifies the condition that could lead to an alarm in the monitoring plan, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate the condition within 24 hours of the time the alarm occurred, and demonstrates that the requested additional time will ensure alleviation of the condition as expeditiously as practicable.
[40 FR 43852, Sept. 23, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 43843, Oct. 31, 1984; 54 FR 6672. Feb. 14, 1989; 64 FR 10109, Mar. 2, 1999; 70 FR 8530, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58476, Aug. 25, 2023; 89 FR 11204, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 60.274
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain records daily of the following information:
(1) Time and duration of each charge;
(2) Time and duration of each tap;
(3) All flow rate data obtained under paragraph (b) of this section, or equivalent obtained under paragraph (d) of this section; and
(4) All pressure data obtained under paragraph (f) of this section.
(b) Except as provided under paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall:
(1) Monitor and record once per shift the block 15-minute average furnace static pressure (if a DEC system is in use, and a furnace static pressure gauge is installed according to paragraph (f) of this section) and either:
(i) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the capture system fan motor amperes and damper position(s); or
(ii) Monitor and record as no greater than 15-minute integrated block average basis the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood; or
(iii) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and record damper position(s).
(2) The volumetric flow monitoring device(s) may be installed in any appropriate location in the capture system such that reproducible flow rate monitoring will result. The flow rate monitoring device(s) shall have an accuracy of ±10 percent over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate the accuracy of the monitoring device(s) relative to EPA Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A of this part.
(3) Parameters monitored pursuant to this paragraph, excluding damper position, shall be recorded as integrated block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
(c)(1) When the owner or operator of an affected facility is required to demonstrate compliance with the standards under § 60.272(a)(3) and at any other time that the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the CAA, as amended), the owner or operator shall, during periods in which a hood is operated for the purpose of capturing emissions from the affected facility subject to paragraph (b) of this section, either:
(i) Monitor and record the fan motor amperes at each damper position, and damper position consistent with paragraph (i)(5) of this section; or
(ii) Monitor and record as no greater than 15-minute integrated block average basis the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood; or
(iii) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and monitor and record the damper position consistent with paragraph (i)(5) of this section.
(2) Parameters monitored pursuant to this paragraph, excluding damper position, shall be recorded as integrated block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
(3) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority for reestablishment of these parameters whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's or delegated authority's satisfaction that the EAF operating conditions upon which the parameters were previously established are no longer applicable. The values of the parameters as determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be the appropriate operational range or control set point throughout each applicable period. Operation at values beyond the accepted operational range or control set point may be subject to the requirements of § 60.276(a).
(d) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority to approve any alternative method that will provide a continuous record of operation of each emission capture system.
(e) The owner or operator shall perform monthly operational status inspections of the equipment that is important to the performance of the total capture system (
i.e.,
pressure sensors, dampers, and damper switches). This inspection shall include observations of the physical appearance of the equipment (
e.g.,
presence of hole in ductwork or hoods, flow constrictions
caused by dents or excess accumulations of dust in ductwork, and fan erosion) and building inspections to ensure that the building does not have any holes or other openings for particulate matter laden air to escape. Any deficiencies that are determined by the operator to materially impact the efficacy of the capture system shall be noted and proper maintenance performed.
(f) Except as provided for under § 60.273(d), where emissions during any phase of the heat time are controlled by use of a direct shell evacuation system, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the pressure in the free space inside the EAF. The pressure shall be recorded as no greater than 15-minute integrated block averages. The monitoring device may be installed in any appropriate location in the EAF or DEC duct prior to the introduction of ambient air such that reproducible results will be obtained. The pressure monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 mm of water gauge over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(g) Except as provided for under § 60.273(d), when the owner or operator of an EAF is required to demonstrate compliance with the standard under § 60.272(a)(3) and at any other time the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the Act, as amended), the pressure in the free space inside the furnace shall be determined during the melting and refining period(s) using the monitoring device under paragraph (f) of this section. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority for reestablishment of the 15-minute integrated average pressure whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's or delegated authority's satisfaction that the EAF operating conditions upon which the pressures were previously established are no longer applicable. The pressure range or control setting during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be maintained at all times the EAF is operating in a melting and refining period. Continuous operation at pressures higher than the operational range or control setting may be considered by the Administrator or delegated authority to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility.
(h) Where the capture system is designed and operated such that all emissions are captured and ducted to a control device, the owner or operator shall not be subject to the requirements of this section.
(i) During any performance test required under § 60.8, and for any report thereof required by § 60.276(c) of this subpart or to determine compliance with § 60.272(a)(3) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall monitor the following information for all heats covered by the test:
(1) Charge weights and materials, and tap weights and materials;
(2) Heat times, including start and stop times, and a log of process operation, including periods of no operation during testing and, if a furnace static pressure monitoring device is operated pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, the pressure inside the furnace when DEC systems are used;
(3) Control device operation log;
(4) Continuous opacity monitor or EPA Method 9 data, or, as an alternative to EPA Method 9, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271;
(5) All damper positions, no less frequently than performed in the latest melt shop opacity compliance test for a full heat, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section;
(6) Fan motor amperes at each damper position, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section;
(7) Volumetric air flow rate through each separately ducted hood, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(8) Static pressure at each separately ducted hood, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section.
(9) Parameters monitored pursuant to paragraphs (i)(6) through (8) of this section shall be recorded as integrated
block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
[40 FR 43852, Sept. 23, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 43843, Oct. 31, 1984; 64 FR 10110, Mar. 2, 1999; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000; 70 FR 8532, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58477, Aug. 25, 2023; 89 FR 11204, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 60.275
Test methods and procedures.
(a) During performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall not add gaseous diluent to the effluent gas after the fabric filter in any pressurized fabric collector, unless the amount of dilution is separately determined and considered in the determination of emissions.
(b) When emissions from any EAF(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart but controlled by a common capture system and control device, the owner or operator shall use either or both of the following procedures during a performance test (see also § 60.276(b)):
(1) Determine compliance using the combined emissions.
(2) Use a method that is acceptable to the Administrator or delegated authority and that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(c) When emissions from any EAF(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, compliance with § 60.272(a)(3) will be based on emissions from only the affected facility(ies). The owner or operator may use operational knowledge to determine the facilities that are the sources, in whole or in part, of any emissions observed in demonstrations of compliance with § 60.272(a)(3).
(d) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.272 as follows:
(1) EPA Method 5 (and referenced EPA Methods 1, 2, 3, 3A, 3B, and 4) shall be used for negative-pressure fabric filters and other types of control devices and EPA Method 5D (and referenced EPA Method 5) shall be used for positive-pressure fabric filters to determine the particulate matter concentration and, if applicable, the volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 4 hours and 4.5 dscm (160 dscf) and, when a single EAF is sampled, the sampling time shall include an integral number of heats. The manual portions only and not the instrumental portion of the voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Methods 3, 3A, and 3B.
(2) When more than one control device serves the EAF(s) being tested, the concentration of particulate matter shall be determined using the following equation:
EC16NO91.013
where:
c
st
= average concentration of particulate matter, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
c
si
= concentration of particulate matter from control device “i”, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
n = total number of control devices tested.
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of stack gas from control device “i”, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
(3) EPA Method 9 or, as an alternative, ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271, and the procedures of § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(4) To demonstrate compliance with § 60.272(a)(1), (2), and (3), the EPA Method 9 test runs shall be conducted concurrently with the particulate matter test runs, unless inclement weather interferes.
(f) To comply with § 60.274 (c), (f), (g), and (i), the owner or operator shall obtain the information in these paragraphs during the particulate matter runs.
(g) Where emissions from any EAF(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of
this subpart, the owner or operator may use any of the following procedures for demonstrating compliance with § 60.272(a)(3), except if the combined emissions are controlled by a common capture system and control device, in which case the owner or operator may use any of the following procedures during an opacity performance test and during shop opacity observations:
(1) Base compliance on control of the combined emissions.
(2) Shut down operation of facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(h) If visible emissions observations are made in lieu of using a continuous opacity monitoring system, as allowed for by § 60.273(c), visible emission observations shall be conducted at least once per day for at least three 6-minute periods when the furnace is operating in the melting and refining period. All visible emissions observations shall be conducted in accordance with EPA Method 9. If visible emissions occur from more than one point, the opacity shall be recorded for any points where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission sites relate to only one incident of the visible emission, only one set of three 6-minute observations will be required. In that case, the EPA Method 9 observations must be made for the site of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident. Records shall be maintained of any 6-minute average that is in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272(a).
(i) Unless the presence of inclement weather makes concurrent testing infeasible, the owner or operator shall conduct concurrently the performance tests required under § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with § 60.272(a) (1), (2), and (3) of this subpart.
[40 FR 43852, Sept. 23, 1975, as amended at 49 FR 43844, Oct. 31, 1984; 54 FR 6672, Feb. 14, 1989; 54 FR 21344, May 17, 1989; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000; 70 FR 8532, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58478, Aug. 25, 2023]
§ 60.276
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) Continuous operation at a furnace static pressure that exceeds the operational range or control setting under § 60.274(g), for owners and operators that elect to install a furnace static pressure monitoring device under § 60.274(f) and either operation of control system motor amperes at values exceeding ±15 percent of the value established under § 60.274(c) or operation at flow rates lower than those established under § 60.274(c) may be considered by the Administrator or delegated authority to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility. Operation at such values shall be reported to the Administrator or delegated authority semiannually.
(b) When the owner or operator of an EAF is required to demonstrate compliance with the standard under § 60.275(b)(2) or a combination of (b)(1) and (b)(2), the owner or operator shall provide notice to the Administrator or delegated authority of the procedure(s) that will be used to determine compliance. Notification of the procedure(s) to be used must be postmarked at least 30 days prior to the performance test.
(c) For the purpose of this subpart, the owner or operator shall conduct the demonstration of compliance with § 60.272(a) of this subpart and furnish the Administrator or delegated authority with a written report of the results of the test. This report shall include the following information:
(1) Facility name and address;
(2) Plant representative;
(3) Make and model of the control device, and continuous opacity monitoring equipment, if applicable;
(4) Flow diagram of process and emission capture system including other equipment or process(es) ducted to the same control device;
(5) Rated (design) capacity of process equipment;
(6) Those data required under § 60.274(i) of this subpart;
(i) List of charge and tap weights and materials;
(ii) Heat times and process log;
(iii) Control device operation log; and
(iv) Continuous opacity monitor or EPA Method 9 data, or, as an alternative to EPA Method 9, according to
ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
(7) Test dates and test times;
(8) Test company;
(9) Test company representative;
(10) Test observers from any outside agency;
(11) Description of test methodology used, including any deviation from standard reference methods
(12) Schematic of sampling location;
(13) Number of sampling points;
(14) Description of sampling equipment;
(15) Listing of sampling equipment calibrations and procedures;
(16) Field and laboratory data sheets;
(17) Description of sample recovery procedures;
(18) Sampling equipment leak check results;
(19) Description of quality assurance procedures;
(20) Description of analytical procedures;
(21) Notation of sample blank corrections; and
(22) Sample emission calculations.
(d) The owner or operator shall maintain records of all shop opacity observations made in accordance with § 60.273(d). All shop opacity observations in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272(a)(3) of this subpart shall indicate a period of excess emissions, and shall be reported to the Administrator or delegated authority semi-annually, according to § 60.7(c) and submitted according to paragraph (h) of this section. In addition to the information required at § 60.7(c), the report shall include the following information:
(1) The company name and address of the affected facility.
(2) An identification of each affected facility being included in the report.
(3) Beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(4) A certification by a certifying official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.
(e) The owner or operator shall maintain the following records for each bag leak detection system required under § 60.273(e):
(1) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(2) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(3) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, if procedures were initiated within 1 hour of the alarm, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and if the alarm was alleviated within 24 hours of the alarm.
(f) Records of the measurements required in § 60.274 must be retained for at least 5 years following the date of the measurement.
(g) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or demonstration of compliance required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test. Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test. The results of the performance test must be
included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3) Confidential business information (CBI). Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The preferred method to submit CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or other online file sharing services (
e.g.,
Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive). Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and should include clear CBI markings and note the docket ID. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link. If sending CBI information through the postal service, submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(h) You must submit a report of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report according to § 60.7(c) to the Administrator semiannually. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, follow paragraph (g)(3) of this section except send to the attention of the Electric Arc Furnace Sector Lead. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (h). All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(i) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed, and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(j) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (j)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the force majeure event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
(k) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[49 FR 43844, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 6672, Feb. 14, 1989; 64 FR 10110, Mar. 2, 1999; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000; 70 FR 8532, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58479, Aug. 25, 2023; 89 FR 11205, Feb. 14, 2024]

# Subpart AAa—Standards of Performance for Steel Plants: Electric Arc Furnaces and Argon-Oxygen Decarbonization Vessels Constructed After August 17, 1983, and On or Before May 16, 2022

# Source:
49 FR 43845, Oct. 31, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.270a
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in steel plants that produce carbon, alloy, or specialty steels: electric arc furnaces, argon-oxygen decarburization vessels, and dust-handling systems.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after August 17, 1983 and on or before May 16, 2022, where a modification is any physical change in, or change in the method of operation of, an existing facility which increases the amount of any air pollutant (to which this standard applies) emitted into the atmosphere by that facility or which results in the emission of any air pollutant (to which this standard applies) into the atmosphere not previously emitted.
[49 FR 43845, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 88 FR 58481, Aug. 25, 2023]
§ 60.271a
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Argon-oxygen decarburization vessel
(AOD vessel) means any closed-bottom, refractory-lined converter vessel with submerged tuyeres through which gaseous mixtures containing argon and oxygen or nitrogen may be blown into molten steel for further refining.
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other conditions that result in increases in particulate loadings. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, electrodynamic, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Capture system
means the equipment (including ducts, hoods, fans, dampers, etc.) used to capture particulate matter generated by the operation of an electric arc furnace or AOD vessel and transport captured particulate matter to the air pollution control device.
Charge
means the addition of iron and steel scrap or other materials into the shell of an electric arc furnace or the addition of molten steel or other materials into the top of an AOD vessel.
Charging period
means the time period when iron and steel scrap or other materials are added into the top of an electric arc furnace until the melting and refining period commences.
Control device
means the air pollution control equipment used to remove particulate matter from the effluent gas stream generated by an electric arc furnace or AOD vessel.
Damper
means any device used to open, close or throttle a DEC system or hood designed to capture emissions from an EAF or AOD vessel and route them to the associated control device(s). It does not include isolation dampers used to isolate a fan or baghouse compartment for repair or cleaning, or dampers controlling collection of emissions from equipment other than an EAF or AOD vessel.
Direct-shell evacuation control system (DEC system)
means a system that creates and maintains a negative pressure within the electric arc furnace shell during melting and refining, and transports emissions to the control device.
Dust-handling system
means equipment used to handle particulate matter collected by the control device for an electric arc furnace or AOD vessel subject to this subpart. For the purposes of this subpart, the dust-handling system shall consist of the control device dust hoppers, the dust-conveying equipment, any silo, dust storage equipment, the dust-treating equipment (
e.g.,
pug mill, pelletizer), dust transfer equipment (including, but not
limited to transfers from a silo to a truck or rail car), and any secondary control devices used with the dust transfer equipment.
Electric arc furnace (EAF)
means a furnace that produces molten steel and heats the charge materials with electricity using-carbon electrodes. For the purposes of this subpart, an EAF shall consist of the furnace shell and roof and the transformer. Furnaces that continuously feed direct-reduced iron ore pellets as the primary source of iron are not affected facilities within the scope of this definition.
Heat cycle
means the period beginning when scrap is charged to an EAF shell and ending when the EAF tap is completed or beginning when molten steel is charged to an AOD vessel and ending when the AOD vessel tap is completed.
Melting and refining period
means the time period commencing at the initial energizing of the electrode to begin the melting process and ending at the initiation of the tapping period, excluding any intermediate times when the electrodes are not energized as part of the melting process.
Melting
means that phase of steel production cycle during which the iron and steel scrap is heated to the molten state.
Negative-pressure fabric filter
means a fabric filter with the fans on the downstream side of the filter bags.
Positive-pressure fabric filter
means a fabric filter with the fans on the upstream side of the filter bags.
Refining
means that phase of the steel production cycle during which impurities are removed from the molten steel and alloys are added to reach the final metal chemistry.
Shop
means the building that houses one or more EAF's or AOD vessels and serves as the point from which compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3), “Standard for Particulate Matter,” is measured.
Shop opacity
means the arithmetic average of 24 observations of the opacity of any EAF or AOD emissions emanating from, and not within, the shop, taken in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part. Alternatively, ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), may be used with the following five conditions:
(1) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand);
(2) The owner or operator must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17);
(3) The owner or operator must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 60.7(f) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination;
(4) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of anyone reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity;
(5) Use of this approved alternative does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) and these requirements is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.
Tap
means the pouring of molten steel from an EAF or AOD vessel.
Tapping period
means the time period commencing at the moment an EAF begins to pour molten steel and ending either three minutes after steel ceases to flow from an EAF, or six minutes
after steel begins to flow, whichever is longer.
[49 FR 43845, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 64 FR 10110, Mar. 2, 1999; 70 FR 8532, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58481, Aug. 25, 2023]
§ 60.272a
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date of which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from an EAF or an AOD vessel any gases which:
(1) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 12 mg/dscm (0.0052 gr/dscf);
(2) Exit from a control device and exhibit 3 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271; and
(3) Exit from a shop and, due solely to the operations of any affected EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s), exhibit 6 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271. Shop opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission sites relate to only one incident of visible emissions, only one observation of shop opacity will be required. In this case, the shop opacity observations must be made for the site of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the dust-handling system any gases that exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
[88 FR 58482, Aug. 25, 2023]
§ 60.273a
Emission monitoring.
(a) Except as provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s) shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated by the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(b) No continuous monitoring system shall be required on any control device serving the dust-handling system.
(c)(1) A continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s) is not required:
(i) On any modular, multistack, negative-pressure or positive-pressure fabric filter if observations of the opacity of the visible emission from the control device are performed by a certified visible emission observer; or
(ii) On any single-stack fabric filter if observations of the opacity of the visible emissions from the control device are performed by a certified visible emission observer and the owner installs and operates a bag leak detection system according to paragraph (e) of this section whenever the control device is being used to remove particulate matter from the EAF or AOD.
(2) Visible emission observations shall be conducted at least once per day of the control device for at least three 6-minute periods when the furnace is operating in the melting and refining period. All visible emissions observations shall be conducted in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
(3) If visible emissions occur from more than one point, the opacity shall be recorded for any points where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission points relate to only one incident of the visible emission,
only one set of three 6-minute observations will be required. In that case, EPA Method 9 observations must be made for the point of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident. Records shall be maintained of any 6-minute average that is in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272(a)(2).
(d) A furnace static pressure monitoring device is not required on any EAF equipped with a DEC system if observations of shop opacity are performed by a certified visible emission observer as follows:
(1) At least once per day when the furnace is operating.
(2) No less than once per week, during the heat cycle as defined in § 60.271a, melt shop with more than one EAF shall conduct these readings while all EAFs are in operation. All EAFs are not required to be on the same schedule for tapping.
(3) Shop opacity shall be determined as the arithmetic average of 24 consecutive 15-second opacity observations of emissions from the shop taken in accordance with EPA Method 9, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271. Shop opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission points relate to only one incident of visible emissions, only one observation of shop opacity will be required. In this case, the shop opacity observations must be made for the point of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident.
(e) A bag leak detection system must be installed on all single-stack fabric filters and operated whenever the control device is being used to remove particulate matter from the EAF or AOD vessel if the owner or operator elects not to install and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system as provided for under paragraph (c) of this section. In addition, the owner or operator shall meet the visible emissions observation requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. The bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(2) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings and the owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (
e.g.,
using a strip chart recorder or a data logger.)
(3) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will activate when an increase in relative particulate loading is detected over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be identified by the appropriate plant personnel.
(4) For each bag leak detection system required by paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority, for approval, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the items identified in paragraphs (i) through (v) of this paragraph (e)(4). For each bag leak detection system that operates based on the triboelectric effect, the monitoring plan shall be consistent with the recommendations contained in EPA-454/R-98-015, Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). The owner or operator shall operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. The plan shall describe the following:
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained including a
routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list; and
(v) How the bag leak detection system output shall be recorded and stored.
(5) The initial adjustment of the system shall, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time (if applicable).
(6) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided for in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Once per quarter, the owner or operator may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects including temperature and humidity according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required under paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(ii) If opacities greater than zero percent are observed over four consecutive 15-second observations during the daily opacity observations required under paragraph (c) of this section and the alarm on the bag leak detection system alarm is not activated, the owner or operator shall lower the alarm set point on the bag leak detection system to a point where the alarm would have been activated during the period when the opacity observations were made.
(7) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the bag leak detection sensor must be installed downstream of the baghouse or upstream of any wet scrubber.
(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(f) For each bag leak detection system installed according to paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall initiate procedures to determine the cause of all alarms within 1 hour of an alarm. The cause of the alarm must be alleviated within 24 hours of the time the alarm occurred by taking whatever response action(s) are necessary. Response actions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may have caused an increase in particulate emissions;
(2) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(3) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(4) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;
(5) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system;
(6) Establishing to the extent acceptable by the delegated authority that the alarm was a false alarm and not caused by a bag leak or other malfunction that could reasonably result in excess particulate emissions; and
(7) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(g) In approving the site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners or operators more than 24 hours to alleviate specific conditions that cause an alarm if the owner or operator identifies the condition that could lead to an alarm in the monitoring plan, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate the condition within 24 hours of the time the alarm occurred, and demonstrates that the requested additional time will ensure alleviation of the condition as expeditiously as practicable.
[49 FR 43845, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 6672, Feb. 14, 1989; 64 FR 10111, Mar. 2, 1999; 70 FR 8532, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58482, Aug. 25, 2023; 89 FR 11205, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 60.274a
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain records of the following information:
(1) All data obtained under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(2) All monthly operational status inspections performed under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall:
(1) Monitor and record once per shift the block 15-minute average furnace static pressure (if a DEC system is in use, and a furnace static pressure gauge is installed according to paragraph (f) of this section) and either:
(i) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the capture system fan motor amperes and damper position(s);
(ii) Monitor and record as no greater than 15-minute integrated block average basis the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood; or
(iii) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and record damper positions(s).
(2) The volumetric flow monitoring device(s) may be installed in any appropriate location in the capture system such that reproducible flow rate monitoring will result. The flow rate monitoring device(s) shall have an accuracy of ±10 percent over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate the accuracy of the monitoring device(s) relative to EPA Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A of this part.
(3) Parameters monitored pursuant to this paragraph, excluding damper position, shall be recorded as integrated block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
(c)(1) When the owner or operator of an affected facility is required to demonstrate compliance with the standards under § 60.272a(a)(3) and at any other time that the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the CAA, as amended), the owner or operator shall, during periods in which a hood is operated for the purpose of capturing emissions from the affected facility subject to paragraph (b) of this section, either:
(i) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the fan motor amperes at each damper position, and damper position consistent with paragraph (h)(5) of this section; or
(ii) Monitor and record as no greater than 15-minute integrated block average basis the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood; or
(iii) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and monitor and record the damper position consistent with paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
(2) Parameters monitored pursuant to this paragraph, excluding damper position, shall be recorded as integrated block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
(3) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority for reestablishment of these parameters whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's or delegated authority's satisfaction that the affected facility operating conditions upon which the parameters were previously established are no longer applicable. The values of the parameters as determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be the appropriate operational range or control set point throughout each applicable period. Operation at values beyond the accepted operational range or control set point may be subject to the requirements of § 60.276a(c).
(d) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall perform monthly operational status inspections of the equipment that is important to the performance of the capture system (
i.e.,
pressure sensors, dampers, and damper switches). This inspection shall include observations of the physical appearance of the equipment (
e.g.,
presence of holes in ductwork or hoods, flow constrictions caused by dents or excess accumulations of dust in ductwork, and fan erosion) and building inspections to ensure that the building does not have any holes or other openings for particulate matter laden air to escape. Any deficiencies that are determined by the operator to materially impact the efficacy of the capture system shall be noted and proper maintenance performed.
(e) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority to approve any alternative to either the monitoring requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section or the monthly operational status inspections specified in paragraph (d) of this section if the alternative will provide a continuous record of operation of each emission capture system.
(f) Except as provided for under § 60.273a(d), if emissions during any phase of the heat cycle are controlled by the use of a DEC system, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that allows the pressure in the free space inside the EAF to be monitored. The pressure shall be recorded as no greater than 15-minute integrated block averages. The monitoring device may be installed in any appropriate location in the EAF or DEC duct prior to the introduction of ambient air such that reproducible results will be obtained. The pressure monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 mm of water gauge over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(g) Except as provided for under § 60.273a(d), when the owner or operator of an EAF controlled by a DEC is required to demonstrate compliance with the standard under § 60.272a(a)(3), and at any other time the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the Clean Air Act, as amended), the pressure in the free space inside the furnace shall be determined during the melting and refining period(s) using the monitoring device required under paragraph (f) of this section. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority for reestablishment of the pressure whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's or delegated authority's satisfaction that the EAF operating conditions upon which the pressures were previously established are no longer applicable. The pressure range or control setting during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be maintained at all times when the EAF is operating in a melting and refining period. Continuous operation at pressures higher than the operational range or control setting may be considered by the Administrator or delegated authority to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility.
(h) During any performance test required under § 60.8, and for any report thereof required by § 60.276a(f) of this subpart, or to determine compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall monitor the following information for all heats covered by the test:
(1) Charge weights and materials, and tap weights and materials;
(2) Heat times, including start and stop times, and a log of process operation, including periods of no operation during testing and, if a furnace static pressure monitoring device is operated pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, the pressure inside an EAF when DEC systems are used;
(3) Control device operation log;
(4) Continuous opacity monitor or EPA Method 9 data, or, as an alternative to EPA Method 9, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271;
(5) All damper positions, no less frequently than performed in the latest melt shop opacity compliance test for a full heat, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section;
(6) Fan motor amperes at each damper position, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section;
(7) Volumetric air flow rate through each separately ducted hood, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(8) Static pressure at each separately ducted hood, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section.
(9) Parameters monitored pursuant to paragraphs (h)(6) through (8) of this section shall be recorded as integrated block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
[49 FR 43845, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 64 FR 10111, Mar. 2, 1999; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000; 70 FR 8533, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58483, Aug. 25, 2023; 89 FR 11205, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 60.275a
Test methods and procedures.
(a) During performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall not add gaseous diluents to the effluent gas stream after the fabric filter in any pressurized fabric filter collector, unless the amount of dilution is separately determined and considered in the determination of emissions.
(b) When emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart but controlled by a common capture system and control device, the owner or operator shall use either or both of the following procedures during a performance test (see also § 60.276a(e)):
(1) Determine compliance using the combined emissions.
(2) Use a method that is acceptable to the Administrator or delegated authority and that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(c) When emission from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3) will be based on emissions from only the affected facility(ies). The owner or operator may use operational knowledge to determine the facilities that are the sources, in whole or in part, of any emissions observed in demonstrations of compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3
(d) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.272a as follows:
(1) EPA Method 5 (and referenced EPA Methods 1, 2, 3, 3A, 3B, and 4) shall be used for negative-pressure fabric filters and other types of control devices and EPA Method 5D (and referenced EPA Method 5) shall be used for positive-pressure fabric filters to determine the particulate matter concentration and volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 4 hours and 4.50 dscm (160 dscf) and, when a single EAF or AOD vessel is sampled, the sampling time shall include an integral number of heats. The manual portions only and not the instrumental portion of the voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Methods 3, 3A, and 3B.
(2) When more than one control device serves the EAF(s) being tested, the concentration of particulate matter shall be determined using the following equation:
ER25AU23.002
Where:
c
st
= average concentration of particulate matter, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
c
si
= concentration of particulate matter from control device “i”, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
n = total number of control devices tested.
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of stack gas from control device “i”, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
(3) EPA Method 9 or, as an alternative, ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271, and the procedures of § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(4) To demonstrate compliance with § 60.272a(a) (1), (2), and (3), the EPA Method 9 test runs shall be conducted concurrently with the particulate matter test runs, unless inclement weather interferes.
(f) To comply with § 60.274a (c), (f), (g), and (h), the owner or operator shall obtain the information required in
these paragraphs during the particulate matter runs.
(g) Any control device subject to the provisions of the subpart shall be designed and constructed to allow measurement of emissions using applicable test methods and procedures.
(h) Where emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, determinations of compliance with § 60.272a(a)(3) will only be based upon emissions originating from the affected facility(ies), except if the combined emissions are controlled by a common capture system and control device, in which case the owner or operator may use any of the following procedures during an opacity performance test and during shop opacity observations:
(1) Base compliance on control of the combined emissions; or
(2) Utilize a method acceptable to the Administrator that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(i) Unless the presence of inclement weather makes concurrent testing infeasible, the owner or operator shall conduct concurrently the performance tests required under § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with § 60.272a(a) (1), (2), and (3) of this subpart.
[49 FR 43845, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 6673, Feb. 14, 1989; 54 FR 21344, May 17, 1989; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000; 88 FR 58484, Aug. 25, 2023]
§ 60.276a
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) Records of the measurements required in § 60.274a must be retained for at least 5 years following the date of the measurement.
(b) Each owner or operator shall submit a written report of exceedances of the control device opacity to the Administrator or delegated authority semi-annually. For the purposes of these reports, exceedances are defined as all 6-minute periods during which the average opacity of emissions from the control device is 3 percent or greater.
(c) Continuous operation at a furnace static pressure that exceeds the operational range or control setting under § 60.274a(g), for owners and operators that elect to install a furnace static pressure monitoring device under § 60.274a(f) and either operation of control system fan motor amperes at values exceeding ±15 percent of the value established under § 60.274a(c) or operation at flow rates lower than those established under § 60.274a(c) may be considered by the Administrator or delegated authority to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility. Operation at such values shall be reported to the Administrator or delegated authority semiannually.
(d) The requirements of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such State. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with this section, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State.
(e) When the owner or operator of an EAF or AOD is required to demonstrate compliance with the standard under § 60.275a(b)(2) or a combination of § 60.275a(b)(1) and (b)(2) the owner or operator shall provide notice to the Administrator or delegated authority of the procedure(s) that will be used to determine compliance. Notification of the procedure(s) to be used must be postmarked at least 30 days prior to the performance test.
(f) For the purpose of this subpart, the owner or operator shall conduct the demonstration of compliance with § 60.272a(a) of this subpart and furnish the Administrator or delegated authority with a written report of the results of the test. This report shall include the following information:
(1) Facility name and address;
(2) Plant representative;
(3) Make and model of the control device, and continuous opacity monitoring equipment, if applicable;
(4) Flow diagram of process and emission capture system including other equipment or process(es) ducted to the same control device;
(5) Rated (design) capacity of process equipment;
(6) Those data required under § 60.274a(h) of this subpart;
(i) List of charge and tap weights and materials;
(ii) Heat times and process log;
(iii) Control device operation log; and
(iv) Continuous opacity monitor or EPA Method 9 data, or, as an alternative to EPA Method 9, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
(7) Test dates and test times;
(8) Test company;
(9) Test company representative;
(10) Test observers from any outside agency;
(11) Description of test methodology used, including any deviation from standard reference methods;
(12) Schematic of sampling location;
(13) Number of sampling points;
(14) Description of sampling equipment;
(15) Listing of sampling equipment calibrations and procedures;
(16) Field and laboratory data sheets;
(17) Description of sample recovery procedures;
(18) Sampling equipment leak check results;
(19) Description of quality assurance procedures;
(20) Description of analytical procedures;
(21) Notation of sample blank corrections; and
(22) Sample emission calculations.
(g) The owner or operator shall maintain records of all shop opacity observations made in accordance with § 60.273a(d). All shop opacity observations in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272a(a)(3) of this subpart shall indicate a period of excess emissions and shall be reported to the Administrator or delegated authority semi-annually, according to § 60.7(c) and submitted according to paragraph (j) of this section. In addition to the information required at § 60.7(c), the report shall include the following information:
(1) The company name and address of the affected facility.
(2) An identification of each affected facility being included in the report.
(3) Beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(4) A certification by a certifying official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.
(h) The owner or operator shall maintain the following records for each bag leak detection system required under § 60.273a(e):
(1) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(2) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(3) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, if procedures were initiated within 1 hour of the alarm, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and if the alarm was alleviated within 24 hours of the alarm.
(i) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or demonstration of compliance required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test. Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test. The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3) Confidential business information (CBI). Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (i)(1) or (2) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The preferred method to submit CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or other online file sharing services (
e.g.,
Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive). Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and should include clear CBI markings and note the docket ID. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link. If sending CBI information through the postal service, submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(j) You must submit a report of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report according to § 60.7(c) to the Administrator semiannually. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, follow paragraph (i)(3) of this section except send to the attention of the Electric Arc Furnace Sector Lead. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (j). All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(k) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (k)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(l) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (l)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the force majeure event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
(m) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[49 FR 43845, Oct. 31, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 6673, Feb. 14, 1989; 64 FR 10111, Mar. 2, 1999; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000; 70 FR 8533, Feb. 22, 2005; 88 FR 58485, Aug. 25, 2023; 89 FR 11206, Feb. 14, 2024]

# Subpart AAb—Standards of Performance for Steel Plants: Electric Arc Furnaces and Argon-Oxygen Decarbonization Vessels Constructed After May 16, 2022

# Source:
88 FR 58487, Aug. 25, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.270b
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in steel plants that produce carbon, alloy, or specialty steels: electric arc furnaces (EAF), argon-oxygen decarburization (AOD) vessels, and dust-handling systems.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after May 16, 2022.
§ 60.271b
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Argon-oxygen decarburization vessel
(AOD vessel) means any closed-bottom, refractory-lined converter vessel with submerged tuyeres through which gaseous mixtures containing argon and oxygen or nitrogen may be blown into molten steel for further refining.
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a baghouse to detect bag leaks and other conditions that result in increases in particulate loadings. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, electrodynamic, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
Capture system
means the equipment (including ducts, hoods, fans, dampers, etc.) used to capture particulate matter generated by the operation of an electric arc furnace (EAF) or AOD vessel and transport captured particulate matter to the air pollution control device.
Charge
means the addition of iron and steel scrap or other materials into the shell of an EAF or the addition of molten steel or other materials into the top of an AOD vessel.
Charging period
means the time period when iron and steel scrap or other materials are added into the top of an EAF until the melting and refining period commences.
Control device
means the air pollution control equipment used to remove particulate matter from the effluent gas stream generated by an EAF or AOD vessel.
Damper
means any device used to open, close or throttle a DEC system or hood designed to capture emissions from an EAF or AOD vessel and route them to the associated control device(s). It does not include isolation dampers used to isolate a fan or baghouse compartment for repair or cleaning, or dampers controlling collection of emissions from equipment other than an EAF or AOD vessel.
Direct-shell evacuation control system (DEC system)
means a system that designed to create and maintain a negative pressure within the EAF shell during melting and refining, and transports emissions to the control device.
Dust-handling system
means equipment used to handle particulate matter collected by the control device for an EAF or AOD vessel subject to this subpart. For the purposes of this subpart, the dust-handling system shall consist of the control device dust hoppers, the dust-conveying equipment, any silo, dust storage equipment, the dust-treating equipment (
e.g.,
pug mill, pelletizer), dust transfer equipment (including, but not limited to transfers from a silo to a truck or rail car), and any secondary control devices used with the dust transfer equipment.
Electric arc furnace (EAF)
means a furnace that produces molten steel and heats the charge materials with electricity using-carbon electrodes. For the purposes of this subpart, an EAF shall consist of the furnace shell and roof and the transformer. Furnaces that continuously feed direct-reduced iron ore pellets as the primary source of
iron are not affected facilities within the scope of this definition.
Electric arc furnace facility
means the EAF(s) or AOD(s) subject to this rule and the air pollution control equipment used to remove particulate matter from the effluent gas stream generated by the EAF(s) or AOD(s).
Furnace static pressure
means the pressure exerted by the flow of air at the walls of the furnace, perpendicular to the flow, measured using a manometer or equivalent device to determine pressure inside an EAF when DEC systems are used or pressure in the free space inside the EAF.
Heat cycle
means the period beginning when scrap is charged to an EAF shell and ending when the EAF tap is completed or beginning when molten steel is charged to an AOD vessel and ending when the AOD vessel tap is completed.
Melting
means that phase of steel production cycle during which the iron and steel scrap is heated to the molten state.
Melting and refining period
means the time period commencing at the initial energizing of the electrode to begin the melting process and ending at the initiation of the tapping period, excluding any intermediate times when the electrodes are not energized as part of the melting process.
Modified facility
means any physical or operational change to an existing facility which results in an increase in the emission rate (in kilograms per hour) to the atmosphere of any pollutant to which a standard applies. Upon modification, an existing facility shall become an affected facility for each pollutant to which a standard applies and for which there is an increase in the emission rate to the atmosphere. See § 60.14.
Negative-pressure fabric filter
means a fabric filter with the fans on the downstream side of the filter bags.
Positive-pressure fabric filter
means a fabric filter with the fans on the upstream side of the filter bags.
Reconstructed facility
means an existing facility which upon reconstruction becomes an affected facility, irrespective of any change in emission rate, due to the replacement of components of an existing facility to such an extent that the fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable entirely new facility, where “fixed capital cost” means the capital needed to provide all the depreciable components, and it is technologically and economically feasible to meet the applicable standards set forth in this subpart after reconstruction.
Refining
means that phase of the steel production cycle during which impurities are removed from the molten steel and alloys are added to reach the final metal chemistry.
Shop
means the building that houses one or more EAF's or AOD vessels and serves as the point from which compliance with § 60.272b(a)(3), “Standard for Particulate Matter,” is measured.
Shop opacity
means the arithmetic average of 24 observations of the opacity of any EAF or AOD emissions emanating from, and not within, the shop, during melting and refining, and during tapping, taken in accordance with Method 9 of appendix A of this part; and during charging, according to the procedures in section 2.5 of Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, with the following modifications: begin reading opacity when charging is first initiated and continue reading until melting and refining begins, or for a minimum of 3 minutes total. From the readings collected, take the average of the highest 12 15-second opacity observations (total of 3 minutes) during this period to determine the 3-minute opacity average associated with charging. For the daily opacity observation during melting and refining, facilities may measure opacity by EPA Method 22 of appendix A of this part, modified to require the recording of the aggregate duration of visible emissions at 15-second intervals. Alternatively, ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), may be used with the following five conditions:
(1) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of
color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand);
(2) The owner or operator must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17);
(3) The owner or operator must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 60.7(f) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination;
(4) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity;
(5) Use of this approved alternative does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) and these requirements is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.
Static pressure
means the pressure exerted by the flow of air at the furnace walls, perpendicular to the flow, measured using a manometer or equivalent device. This refers to either furnace static pressure, or static pressure in air ducts, or pressure in the EAF capture system,
i.e.,
static pressure at each separately ducted hood]
Tap
means the pouring of molten steel from an EAF or AOD vessel.
Tapping period
means the time period commencing at the moment an EAF begins to pour molten steel and ending either three minutes after steel ceases to flow from an EAF, or six minutes after steel begins to flow, whichever is longer.
[88 FR 58487, Aug. 25, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 11206, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 60.272b
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date of which the performance tests required to be conducted by § 60.8 or § 60.272b(d) are completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from an EAF or an AOD vessel any gases which:
(1) Exit from control devices at the facility and contain particulate matter as a total for the facility in excess of 79 mg/kg steel produced (0.16 lb/ton steel produced) for the facility;
(2) Exit from a control device and exhibit 3 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271; and
(3) Exit from a shop and, due solely to the operations of any affected EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) during melting and refining exhibit greater than 0 percent opacity, and during tapping exhibit greater than 6 percent opacity, as measured in accordance with Method 9 of appendix A of this part; and during charging, exhibit greater than 6 percent opacity, as measured according to the procedures in section 2.5 of Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, with the modification of this section of Method 9, as follows: begin reading opacity when charging is first initiated and continue reading until melting and refining begins, or for a minimum of 3 minutes total. From the readings collected, take the average of the highest 12 15-second opacity observations (total of 3 minutes) during this period to determine the 3-minute opacity average associated with charging. For the daily opacity observation during melting and refining, facilities may measure opacity by EPA Method 22 of appendix A of this part, modified to require the recording of the aggregate duration of visible emissions at 15-second intervals. As an alternative, facilities may measure opacity according to
ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271 or, for the daily opacity observations during melting and refining, exhibit 0 seconds of visible emissions as measured by EPA Method 22 of appendix A of this part, modified to require the recording of the aggregate duration of visible emissions at 15-second intervals. Shop opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) during melting and refining, during charging, and during tapping where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission sites relate to only one incident of visible emissions during melting and refining, during charging, or during tapping, only one observation of shop opacity or visible emissions will be required during melting and refining, during charging, or during tapping. In this case, the shop opacity or visible emissions observations must be made for the point of highest emissions during melting and refining, during charging, or during tapping that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance tests required to be conducted by § 60.8 or § 60.272b(d) are completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the dust-handling system any gases that exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater, as measured in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A of this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
(c) The standards in paragraphs (a) and (b) apply at all times. The exemptions to opacity standards under § 60.11(c) do not apply to this subpart. As provided in § 60.11(f), this provision supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction in the Part 60 general provisions in Subpart A.
(d) Performance tests required to be conducted to show compliance with the standards in paragraph (a) of this section shall be repeated at least every 5 years after the performance tests required by § 60.8 are conducted.
[88 FR 58487, Aug. 25, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 11206, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 60.273b
Emission monitoring.
(a) Except as provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s) shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated by the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(b) No continuous monitoring system shall be required on any control device serving the dust-handling system.
(c)(1) A continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s) is not required:
(i) On any modular, multistack, negative-pressure or positive-pressure fabric filter if observations of the opacity of the visible emission from the control device are performed by a certified visible emission observer; or
(ii) On any single-stack fabric filter if observations of the opacity of the visible emissions from the control device are performed by a certified visible emission observer and the owner installs and operates a bag leak detection system according to paragraph (e) of this section whenever the control device is being used to remove particulate matter from the EAF or AOD.
(2) Visible emission observations shall be conducted at least once per day of the control device for at least three 6-minute periods when the furnace is operating in the melting and refining period. All visible emissions observations shall be conducted in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
(3) If visible emissions occur from more than one point, the opacity shall be recorded for any points where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission points relate to only one incident of the visible emission,
only one set of three 6-minute observations will be required. In that case, EPA Method 9 observations must be made for the point of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident. Records shall be maintained of any 6-minute average that is in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272b(a)(2).
(d) A furnace static pressure monitoring device is not required on any EAF equipped with a DEC system if observations of shop opacity are performed by a certified visible emission observer as follows:
(1) At least once per day when the furnace is operating.
(2) No less than once per week, during the heat cycle as defined in § 60.271b, a melt shop with more than one EAF shall conduct these readings while all EAFs are in operation. All EAFs are not required to be on the same schedule for tapping.
(3) Shop opacity shall be determined as the arithmetic average of 24 consecutive 15-second opacity observations of emissions from the shop taken in accordance with Method 9 during melting and refining and during tapping; and during charging determined according to the procedures in section 2.5 of Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, with the modification as follows: begin reading opacity when charging is first initiated and continue reading until melting and refining begins, or for a minimum of 3 minutes total. From the readings collected, take the average of the highest 12 15-second opacity observations (total of 3 minutes) during this period to determine the 3-minute opacity average associated with charging. For the daily opacity observation during melting and refining, facilities may measure opacity by EPA Method 22 of appendix A of this part, modified to require the recording of the aggregate duration of visible emissions at 15-second intervals. As an alternative, facilities may measure the opacity according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271, or, during melting and refining, as the total duration of visible emissions measured according to EPA Method 22 over a 6-minute period, modified to require the recording of the aggregate duration of visible emissions at 15-second intervals. Shop opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission points relate to only one incident of visible emissions, only one observation of shop opacity will be required. In this case, the shop opacity observations must be made for the point of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident. Shop opacity shall be determined daily during melting and refining, during charging, and during tapping.
(e) A bag leak detection system must be installed and operated on all single-stack fabric filters whenever the control device is being used to remove particulate matter from the EAF or AOD vessel if the owner or operator elects not to install and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system as provided for under paragraph (c) of this section. In addition, the owner or operator shall meet the visible emissions observation requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. The bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at a concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(2) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings and the owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (
e.g.,
using a strip chart recorder or a data logger.)
(3) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will activate when an increase in relative particulate loading is detected over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be identified by the appropriate plant personnel.
(4) For each bag leak detection system required by paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority, for approval, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the items identified in paragraphs (i) through (v) of this paragraph (e)(4). For each bag leak detection system that operates based on the triboelectric effect, the monitoring plan shall be consistent with the recommendations contained in EPA-454/R-98-015, “Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance” (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). The owner or operator shall operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. The plan shall describe the following:
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list; and
(v) How the bag leak detection system output shall be recorded and stored.
(5) The initial adjustment of the system shall, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time (if applicable).
(6) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided for in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Once per quarter, the owner or operator may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects including temperature and humidity according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required under paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(ii) If opacities greater than 0 percent are observed over four consecutive 15-second observations during the daily opacity observations required under paragraph (c) of this section and the alarm on the bag leak detection system alarm is not activated, the owner or operator shall lower the alarm set point on the bag leak detection system to a point where the alarm would have been activated during the period when the opacity observations were made.
(7) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the bag leak detection sensor must be installed downstream of the baghouse or upstream of any wet scrubber.
(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(f) For each bag leak detection system installed according to paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall initiate procedures to determine the cause of all alarms within 1 hour of an alarm. The cause of the alarm must be alleviated within 24 hours of the time the alarm occurred by taking whatever response action(s) are necessary. Response actions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may have caused an increase in particulate emissions;
(2) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(3) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(4) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;
(5) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system;
(6) Establishing to the extent acceptable by the delegated authority that the alarm was a false alarm and not caused by a bag leak or other malfunction that could reasonably result in excess particulate emissions; and
(7) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(g) In approving the site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners or operators more than 24 hours to alleviate specific conditions that cause an alarm if the owner or operator identifies the condition that could lead to an alarm in the monitoring plan, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate the condition within 24 hours of the time the alarm occurred, and demonstrates that the requested additional time will ensure alleviation of the condition as expeditiously as practicable.
[88 FR 58487, Aug. 25, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 11207, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 60.274b
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain records of the following information:
(1) All data obtained under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(2) All monthly operational status inspections performed under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall conduct the following monitoring of the capture system to demonstrate continuous compliance:
(1) If a DEC system is in use, according to paragraph (f) of this section, monitor and record once per shift the block 15-minute average furnace static pressure and any one of (2) through (4) in this paragraph:
(2) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the fan motor amperes at each damper position, and damper position consistent with paragraph (h)(5) of this section; or
(3) Monitor and record as no greater than 15-minute integrated block average basis the volumetric air flow rate at each separately ducted hood; or
(4) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet and monitor and record the damper position consistent with paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
(5) The furnace static pressure monitoring device(s) shall be installed in an EAF or DEC duct prior to combining with other ducts and prior to the introduction of ambient air, at a location that has no flow disturbance due to the junctions.
(6) The volumetric flow monitoring device(s) may be installed in any appropriate location in the capture system such that reproducible flow rate monitoring will result. The flow rate monitoring device(s) shall have an accuracy of ±10 percent over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate the accuracy of the monitoring device(s) relative to EPA Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A of this part.
(7) Parameters monitored pursuant to this paragraph, excluding damper position, shall be recorded as integrated block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
(c)(1) When the owner or operator of an affected facility is required to demonstrate compliance with the standards under § 60.272b(a)(3) and at any other time that the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the CAA, as amended), the owner or operator shall, during all periods in which a hood is operated for the purpose of capturing emissions from the affected facility subject to paragraph (b) of this section, either:
(i) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the fan motor amperes at each damper position, and damper position consistent with paragraph (h)(5) of this section;
(ii) Monitor and record as no greater than 15-minute integrated block average basis the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood; or
(iii) Install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the control device inlet, and monitor and record the damper position consistent with paragraph (h)(5) of this section.
(2) Parameters monitored pursuant to this paragraph, excluding damper
position, shall be recorded as integrated block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
(3) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority for reestablishment of these parameters whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's or delegated authority's satisfaction that the affected facility operating conditions upon which the parameters were previously established are no longer applicable. The values of the parameters as determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be the appropriate operational range or control set point throughout each applicable period. Operation at values beyond the accepted operational range or control set point may be subject to the requirements of § 60.276b(c).
(d) Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall perform monthly operational status inspections of the equipment that is important to the performance of the capture system (
i.e.,
pressure sensors, dampers, and damper switches). This inspection shall include observations of the physical appearance of the equipment (
e.g.,
presence of holes in ductwork or hoods, flow constrictions caused by dents or excess accumulations of dust in ductwork, and fan erosion) and building inspections to ensure that the building does not have any holes or other openings for particulate matter laden air to escape. Any deficiencies that are determined by the operator to materially impact the efficacy of the capture system shall be noted and proper maintenance performed.
(e) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority to approve any alternative to either the monitoring requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section or the monthly operational status inspections specified in paragraph (d) of this section if the alternative will provide a continuous record of operation of each emission capture system.
(f) Except as provided under § 60.273b(d), if emissions during any phase of the heat cycle are controlled by the use of a DEC system, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that allows the pressure in the free space inside the EAF to be monitored. The pressure shall be recorded as no greater than 15-minute integrated block averages. The monitoring device may be installed in any appropriate location in the EAF or DEC duct prior to the introduction of ambient air such that reproducible results will be obtained. The pressure monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 mm of water gauge over its normal operating range and shall be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.
(g) When the owner or operator of an EAF controlled by a DEC is required to demonstrate compliance with the standard under § 60.272b(a)(3), and at any other time the Administrator may require (under section 114 of the Clean Air Act, as amended), the pressure in the free space inside the furnace shall be determined during the melting and refining period(s) using the monitoring device required under paragraph (f) of this section. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator or delegated authority for reestablishment of the pressure whenever the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's or delegated authority's satisfaction that the EAF operating conditions upon which the pressures were previously established are no longer applicable. The pressure range or control setting during the most recent demonstration of compliance shall be maintained at all times when the EAF is operating in a melting and refining period. Continuous operation at pressures higher than the operational range or control setting may be considered by the Administrator or delegated authority to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility.
(h) During any performance test required under § 60.8 or § 60.272b(d), and for any report thereof required by § 60.276b(f) of this subpart, or to determine compliance with § 60.272b(a)(3) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall monitor the following information for all heats covered by the test:
(1) Charge weights and materials, and tap weights and materials;
(2) Heat times, including start and stop times, and a log of process operation, including periods of no operation during testing and, if a furnace static pressure monitoring device is operated pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, the pressure inside an EAF when DEC systems are used;
(3) Control device operation log;
(4) Continuous opacity monitor (COM) or EPA Method 9 data, or, as an alternative to EPA Method 9, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271;
(5) All damper positions, no less frequently than performed in the latest melt shop opacity compliance test for a full heat, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section;
(6) Fan motor amperes at each damper position, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section;
(7) Volumetric air flow rate through each separately ducted hood, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section; and
(8) Static pressure at each separately ducted hood, if selected as a method to demonstrate compliance under paragraph (b) of this section.
(9) Parameters monitored pursuant to paragraphs (h)(6) through (8) of this section shall be recorded as integrated block averages not to exceed 15 minutes.
[88 FR 58487, Aug. 25, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 11207, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 60.275b
Test methods and procedures.
(a) During performance tests required in §§ 60.8 and 60.272b(d), the owner or operator shall not add gaseous diluents to the effluent gas stream after the fabric filter in any pressurized fabric filter collector, unless the amount of dilution is separately determined and considered in the determination of emissions.
(b) When emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart but controlled by a common capture system and control device, the owner or operator shall use any one of the following procedures during a performance test (see also § 60.276b(e)):
(1) Determine compliance using the combined emissions.
(2) Use a method that is acceptable to the Administrator or delegated authority and that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) When emission from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, compliance with § 60.272b(a)(3) will be based on emissions from only the affected facility(ies). The owner or operator may use operational knowledge to determine the facilities that are the sources, in whole or in part, of any emissions observed in demonstrations of compliance with § 60.272b(a)(3).
(d) In conducting the performance tests required in §§ 60.8 and 60.272b(d), the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.272b as follows:
(1) EPA Method 5 (and referenced EPA Methods 1, 2, 3, 3A, 3B, and 4) shall be used for negative-pressure fabric filters and other types of control devices and EPA Method 5D (and referenced EPA Method 5) shall be used for positive-pressure fabric filters to determine the particulate matter concentration and volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 4 hours and 4.50 dry standard cubic meter (160 dry standard cubic feet) and, when a single EAF or AOD vessel is sampled, the sampling time shall include an integral number of heats. The manual portions only (not the instrumental portion) of the voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) are acceptable alternatives to EPA Methods 3, 3A, and 3B.
(2) When more than one control device serves the EAF(s) being tested, the
concentration of particulate matter shall be determined using the following equation:
ER25AU23.003
where:
E
sf
= average emission rate of particulate matter, mg/kg (lb/ton).
R
si
= emission rate of particulate matter from control device “i”, mg/hr (lb/hr).
n = total number of control devices at the facility.
P
i
= steel production rate during testing of control device “i”, kg/hr (ton/hr).
(3) EPA Method 9 or, as an alternative, ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271, and the procedures of § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(4) To demonstrate compliance with § 60.272b(a) (1), (2), and (3), the EPA Method 9 test runs shall be conducted concurrently with the particulate matter test runs, unless inclement weather interferes.
(f) To comply with § 60.274b(c), (f), (g), and (h), the owner or operator shall obtain the information required in these paragraphs during the particulate matter runs.
(g) Any control device subject to the provisions of the subpart shall be designed and constructed to allow measurement of emissions using applicable test methods and procedures.
(h) Where emissions from any EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s) are combined with emissions from facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart, determinations of compliance with § 60.272b(a)(1), (2), and (3) will only be based upon emissions originating from the affected facility(ies), except if the combined emissions are controlled by a common capture system and control device, in which case the owner or operator may use any of the following procedures during an opacity performance test and during shop opacity observations:
(1) Base compliance on control of the combined emissions; or
(2) Utilize a method acceptable to the Administrator that compensates for the emissions from the facilities not subject to the provisions of this subpart.
(3) Any combination of the criteria of paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.
(i) Unless the presence of inclement weather makes concurrent testing infeasible, the owner or operator shall conduct concurrently the performance tests required under § 60.8 or § 60.272b(d) to demonstrate compliance with § 60.272b(a)(1), (2), and (3) of this subpart.
§ 60.276b
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) Records of the measurements required in § 60.274b must be retained for at least 5 years following the date of the measurement.
(b) Each owner or operator shall submit a written report of exceedances of the control device opacity to the Administrator or delegated authority semi-annually. For the purposes of these reports, exceedances are defined as all 6-minute periods during which the average opacity of emissions from the control device is 3 percent or greater or, where the daily shop opacity visible emissions were measured according to EPA Method 22 and exceeded 0 seconds.
(c) Operation at a furnace static pressure that exceeds the operational range or control setting under § 60.274b(g), for owners and operators that elect to install a furnace static pressure monitoring device under § 60.274b(f) and either operation of control system fan motor amperes at values exceeding ±15 percent of the value established under
§ 60.274b(c) or operation ranges or control settings outside of those established under § 60.274b(c) may be considered by the Administrator or delegated authority to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility. Operation at such values shall be reported to the Administrator or delegated authority semiannually.
(d) The requirements of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such State. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with this section, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State.
(e) When the owner or operator of an EAF or AOD is required to demonstrate compliance with the standard under § 60.275b(b)(2) or a combination of (b)(1) and (b)(2) the owner or operator provide notice to the Administrator or delegated authority of the procedure(s) that will be used to determine compliance. Notification of the procedure(s) to be used must be postmarked at least 30 days prior to the performance test.
(f) For the purpose of this subpart, the owner or operator shall conduct the demonstration of compliance with § 60.272b(a) of this subpart and furnish the Administrator or delegated authority with a report of the results of the test according to paragraph (i) of this section. This report shall include the following information:
(1) Facility name and address;
(2) Plant representative;
(3) Make and model of the control device, and continuous opacity monitoring equipment, if applicable;
(4) Flow diagram of process and emission capture system including other equipment or process(es) ducted to the same control device;
(5) Rated (design) capacity of process equipment;
(6) Those data required under § 60.274b(h) of this subpart;
(i) List of charge and tap weights and materials;
(ii) Heat times and process log;
(iii) Control device operation log; and
(iv) Continuous opacity monitor or EPA Method 9 data, or, as an alternative to EPA Method 9, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under
Shop opacity
in § 60.271.
(7) Test dates and test times;
(8) Test company;
(9) Test company representative;
(10) Test observers from any outside agency;
(11) Description of test methodology used, including any deviation from standard reference methods;
(12) Schematic of sampling location;
(13) Number of sampling points;
(14) Description of sampling equipment;
(15) Listing of sampling equipment calibrations and procedures;
(16) Field and laboratory data sheets;
(17) Description of sample recovery procedures;
(18) Sampling equipment leak check results;
(19) Description of quality assurance procedures;
(20) Description of analytical procedures;
(21) Notation of sample blank corrections; and
(22) Sample emission calculations.
(g) The owner or operator shall maintain records of all shop opacity observations made in accordance with § 60.273b(d). All shop opacity observations in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272b(a)(3) of this subpart shall indicate a period of excess emissions and shall be reported to the Administrator or delegated authority semi-annually, according to § 60.7(c) and submitted according to paragraph (j) of this section. In addition to the information required at § 60.7(c), the report shall include the following information:
(1) The company name and address of the affected facility.
(2) An identification of each affected facility being included in the report.
(3) Beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(4) A certification by a certifying official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the
statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.
(h) The owner or operator shall maintain the following records for each bag leak detection system required under § 60.273b(e):
(1) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(2) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(3) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, if procedures were initiated within 1 hour of the alarm, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and if the alarm was alleviated within 24 hours of the alarm.
(i) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or demonstration of compliance required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test. Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test. The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3) Confidential business information (CBI). Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (i)(1) or (2) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The preferred method to submit CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or other online file sharing services (
e.g.,
Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive). Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and should include clear CBI markings and note the docket ID. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link. If sending CBI information through the postal service, submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as
CBI and will be made publicly available.
(j) You must submit a report of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report according to § 60.7(c) to the Administrator semiannually. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, follow paragraph (i)(3) of this section except send to the attention of the Electric Arc Furnace Sector Lead. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (j). All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(k) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (k)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(l) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (l)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents
you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the force majeure event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
(m) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[88 FR 58487, Aug. 25, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 11207, Feb. 14, 2024]

# Subpart BB—Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp Mills
§ 60.280
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in kraft pulp mills: Digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, lime kiln, and condensate stripper system. In pulp mills where kraft pulping is combined with neutral sulfite semichemical pulping, the provisions of this subpart are applicable when any portion of the material charged to an affected facility is produced by the kraft pulping operation.
(b) Except as noted in § 60.283(a)(1)(iv), any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction, or modification after September 24, 1976, and on or before May 23, 2013 is subject to the requirements of this subpart. Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction, or modification after May 23, 2013 is subject to the requirements of subpart BBa of this part.
[51 FR 18544, May 20, 1986, as amended at 79 FR 18966, Apr. 4, 2014]
§ 60.281
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the same meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A.
(a)
Kraft pulp mill
means any stationary source which produces pulp from wood by cooking (digesting) wood chips in a water solution of sodium hydroxide and sodium sulfide (white liquor) at high temperature and pressure. Regeneration of the cooking chemicals through a recovery process is also considered part of the kraft pulp mill.
(b)
Neutral sulfite semichemical pulping operation
means any operation in which pulp is produced from wood by cooking (digesting) wood chips in a solution of sodium sulfite and sodium bicarbonate, followed by mechanical defibrating (grinding).
(c)
Total reduced sulfur (TRS)
means the sum of the sulfur compounds hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan, dimethyl sulfide, and dimethyl disulfide, that are released during the kraft pulping operation and measured by Method 16.
(d)
Digester system
means each continuous digester or each batch digester used for the cooking of wood in white
liquor, and associated flash tank(s), blow tank(s), chip steamer(s), and condenser(s).
(e)
Brown stock washer system
means brown stock washers and associated knotters, vacuum pumps, and filtrate tanks used to wash the pulp following the digester system. Diffusion washers are excluded from this definition.
(f)
Multiple-effect evaporator system
means the multiple-effect evaporators and associated condenser(s) and hotwell(s) used to concentrate the spent cooking liquid that is separated from the pulp (black liquor).
(g)
Black liquor oxidation system
means the vessels used to oxidize, with air or oxygen, the black liquor, and associated storage tank(s).
(h)
Recovery furnace
means either a straight kraft recovery furnace or a cross recovery furnace, and includes the direct-contact evaporator for a direct-contact furnace.
(i)
Straight kraft recovery furnace
means a furnace used to recover chemicals consisting primarily of sodium and sulfur compounds by burning black liquor which on a quarterly basis contains 7 weight percent or less of the total pulp solids from the neutral sulfite semichemical process or has green liquor sulfidity of 28 percent or less.
(j)
Cross recovery furnace
means a furnace used to recover chemicals consisting primarily of sodium and sulfur compounds by burning black liquor which on a quarterly basis contains more than 7 weight percent of the total pulp solids from the neutral sulfite semichemical process and has a green liquor sulfidity of more than 28 percent.
(k)
Black liquor solids
means the dry weight of the solids which enter the recovery furnace in the black liquor.
(l)
Green liquor sulfidity
means the sulfidity of the liquor which leaves the smelt dissolving tank.
(m)
Smelt dissolving tank
means a vessel used for dissolving the smelt collected from the recovery furnace.
(n)
Lime kiln
means a unit used to calcine lime mud, which consists primarily of calcium carbonate, into quicklime, which is calcium oxide.
(o)
Condensate stripper system
means a column, and associated condensers, used to strip, with air or steam, TRS compounds from condensate streams from various processes within a kraft pulp mill.
[43 FR 7572, Feb. 23, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 18544, May 20, 1986; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.282
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From any recovery furnace any gases which:
(i) Contain particulate matter in excess of 0.10 g/dscm (0.044 gr/dscf) corrected to 8 percent oxygen.
(ii) Exhibit 35 percent opacity or greater.
(2) From any smelt dissolving tank any gases which contain particulate matter in excess of 0.1 g/kg black liquor solids (dry weight)[0.2 lb/ton black liquor solids (dry weight)].
(3) From any lime kiln any gases which contain particulate matter in excess of:
(i) 0.15 g/dscm (0.066 gr/dscf) corrected to 10 percent oxygen, when gaseous fossil fuel is burned.
(ii) 0.30 g/dscm (0.13 gr/dscf) corrected to 10 percent oxygen, when liquid fossil fuel is burned.
[43 FR 7572, Feb. 23, 1978, as amended at 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.283
Standard for total reduced sulfur (TRS).
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system any gases which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 10 percent oxygen, unless the following conditions are met:
(i) The gases are combusted in a lime kiln subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(5) of this section; or
(ii) The gases are combusted in a recovery furnace subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section; or
(iii) The gases are combusted with other waste gases in an incinerator or other device, or combusted in a lime kiln or recovery furnace not subject to the provisions of this subpart, and are subjected to a minimum temperature of 650 °C (1200 °F) for at least 0.5 second; or
(iv) It has been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction by the owner or operator that incinerating the exhaust gases from a new, modified, or reconstructed brown stock washer system is technologically or economically unfeasible. Any exempt system will become subject to the provisions of this subpart if the facility is changed so that the gases can be incinerated.
(v) The gases from the digester system, brown stock washer system, or condensate stripper system are controlled by a means other than combustion. In this case, this system shall not discharge any gases to the atmosphere which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, uncorrected for oxygen content.
(vi) The uncontrolled exhaust gases from a new, modified, or reconstructed digester system contain TRS less than 0.005 g/kg air dried pulp (ADP) (0.01 lb/ton ADP).
(2) From any straight kraft recovery furnace any gases which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 8 percent oxygen.
(3) From any cross recovery furnace any gases which contain TRS in excess of 25 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 8 percent oxygen.
(4) From any smelt dissolving tank any gases which contain TRS in excess of 0.016 g/kg black liquor solids as H
2
S (0.033 lb/ton black liquor solids as H
2
S).
(5) From any lime kiln any gases which contain TRS in excess of 8 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 10 percent oxygen.
[43 FR 7572, Feb. 23, 1978, as amended at 50 FR 6317, Feb. 14, 1985; 51 FR 18544, May 20, 1986; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.284
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the following continuous monitoring systems:
(1) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the opacity of the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any recovery furnace. The span of this system shall be set at 70 percent opacity.
(2) Continuous monitoring systems to monitor and record the concentration of TRS emissions on a dry basis and the percent of oxygen by volume on a dry basis in the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any lime kiln, recovery furnace, digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system, except where the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1) (iii) or (iv) apply. These systems shall be located downstream of the control device(s) and the spans of these continuous monitoring system(s) shall be set:
(i) At a TRS concentration of 30 ppm for the TRS continuous monitoring system, except that for any cross recovery furnace the span shall be set at 50 ppm.
(ii) At 25 percent oxygen for the continuous oxygen monitoring system.
(b) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the following continuous monitoring devices:
(1) For any incinerator, a monitoring device which measures and records the combustion temperature at the point of incineration of effluent gases which are emitted from any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, black liquor oxidation system, or condensate stripper system where the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1)(iii) apply. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±1 percent of the temperature being measured.
(2) For any lime kiln or smelt dissolving tank using a scrubber emission control device:
(i) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure
loss of the gas stream through the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within a gage pressure of ±500 pascals (ca. ±2 inches water gage pressure).
(ii) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid supply pressure to the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±15 percent of design scrubbing liquid supply pressure. The pressure sensor or tap is to be located close to the scrubber liquid discharge point. The Administrator may be consulted for approval of alternative locations.
(c) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall, except where the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1)(iii) or (iv) apply, perform the following:
(1) Calculate and record on a daily basis 12-hour average TRS concentrations for the two consecutive periods of each operating day. Each 12-hour average shall be determined as the arithmetic mean of the appropriate 12 contiguous 1-hour average total reduced sulfur concentrations provided by each continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) Calculate and record on a daily basis 12-hour average oxygen concentrations for the two consecutive periods of each operating day for the recovery furnace and lime kiln. These 12-hour averages shall correspond to the 12-hour average TRS concentrations under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and shall be determined as an arithmetic mean of the appropriate 12 contiguous 1-hour average oxygen concentrations provided by each continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3) Using the following equation, correct all 12-hour average TRS concentrations to 10 volume percent oxygen, except that all 12-hour average TRS concentrations from a recovery furnace shall be corrected to 8 volume percent oxygen instead of 10 percent, and all 12-hour average TRS concentrations from a facility to which the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1)(v) apply shall not be corrected for oxygen content:
C
corr
=
C
meas
× (21−
X)
/(21−
Y
)
where:
C
corr
= the concentration corrected for oxygen.
C
meas
= the concentration uncorrected for oxygen.
X
= the volumetric oxygen concentration in percentage to be corrected to (8 percent for recovery furnaces and 10 percent for lime kilns, incinerators, or other devices).
Y
= the measured 12-hour average volumetric oxygen concentration.
(4) Record once per shift measurements obtained from the continuous monitoring devices installed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(d) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall report semiannually periods of excess emissions as follows:
(1) For emissions from any recovery furnace periods of excess emissions are:
(i) All 12-hour averages of TRS concentrations above 5 ppm by volume for straight kraft recovery furnaces and above 25 ppm by volume for cross recovery furnaces.
(ii) All 6-minute average opacities that exceed 35 percent.
(2) For emissions from any lime kiln, periods of excess emissions are all 12-hour average TRS concentration above 8 ppm by volume.
(3) For emissions from any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system periods of excess emissions are:
(i) All 12-hour average TRS concentrations above 5 ppm by volume unless the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1) (i), (ii), or (iv) apply; or
(ii) All periods in excess of 5 minutes and their duration during which the combustion temperature at the point of incineration is less than 650 °C (1200 °F), where the provisions of § 60.283(a)(1)(iii) apply.
(e) The Administrator will not consider periods of excess emissions reported under paragraph (d) of this section to be indicative of a violation of § 60.11(d) provided that:
(1) The percent of the total number of possible contiguous periods of excess emissions in a quarter (excluding periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction and periods when the facility is
not operating) during which excess emissions occur does not exceed:
(i) One percent for TRS emissions from recovery furnaces.
(ii) Six percent for average opacities from recovery furnaces.
(2) The Administrator determines that the affected facility, including air pollution control equipment, is maintained and operated in a manner which is consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions during periods of excess emissions.
(f) The procedures under § 60.13 shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the continuous monitoring systems required under this section. All continuous monitoring systems shall be operated in accordance with the applicable procedures under Performance Specifications 1, 3, and 5 of appendix B of this part.
[43 FR 7572, Feb. 23, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 18545, May 20, 1986; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000; 71 FR 55127, Sept. 21, 2006; 79 FR 11250, Feb. 27, 2014]
§ 60.285
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.282(a) (1) and (3) as follows:
(1) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf). Water shall be used as the cleanup solvent instead of acetone in the sample recovery procedure. The particulate concentration shall be corrected to the appropriate oxygen concentration according to § 60.284(c)(3).
(2) The emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration. The gas sample shall be taken at the same time and at the same traverse points as the particulate sample.
(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particular matter standard in § 60.282(a)(2) as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = c
s
Q
sd
/ BLS
where:
E = emission rate of particulate matter, g/kg (lb/ton) of BLS.
c
s
= Concentration of particulate matter, g/dscm (lb/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
BLS = black liquor solids (dry weight) feed rate, kg/hr (ton/hr).
(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c
s
) and the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf). Water shall be used instead of acetone in the sample recovery.
(3) Process data shall be used to determine the black liquor solids (BLS) feed rate on a dry weight basis.
(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the TRS standards in § 60.283, except § 60.283(a)(1)(vi) and (4), as follows:
(1) Method 16 shall be used to determine the TRS concentration. The TRS concentration shall be corrected to the appropriate oxygen concentration using the procedure in § 60.284(c)(3). The sampling time shall be at least 3 hours, but no longer than 6 hours.
(2) The emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration. The sample shall be taken over the same time period as the TRS samples.
(3) When determining whether a furnace is a straight kraft recovery furnace or a cross recovery furnace, TAPPI Method T.624 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine sodium sulfide, sodium hydroxide, and sodium carbonate. These determinations shall be made 3 times daily from the green liquor, and the
daily average values shall be converted to sodium oxide (Na
2
0) and substituted into the following equation to determine the green liquor sulfidity:
ER17OC00.009
Where:
GLS = green liquor sulfidity, percent.
C
Na2S
= concentration of Na
2
S as Na
2
O, mg/liter (gr/gal).
C
NaOH
= concentration of NaOH as Na
2
O, mg/liter (gr/gal).
C
Na2CO3
= concentration of Na
2
CO
3
as Na
2
O, mg/liter (gr/gal).
(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the TRS standards in § 60.283(a)(1)(vi) and (4) as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of TRS shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = C
TRS
F Q
sd
/P
where:
E = emission rate of TRS, g/kg (lb/ton) of BLS or ADP.
C
TRS
= average combined concentration of TRS, ppm.
F = conversion factor, 0.001417 g H
2
S/m
3
-ppm (8.846 × 10
−8
lb H
2
S/ft
3
-ppm).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of stack gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = black liquor solids feed or pulp production rate, kg/hr (ton/hr).
(2) Method 16 shall be used to determine the TRS concentration (C
TRS
).
(3) Method 2 shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas.
(4) Process data shall be used to determine the black liquor feed rate or the pulp production rate (P).
(f) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:
(1) For Method 5, Method 17 may be used if a constant value of 0.009 g/dscm (0.004 gr/dscf) is added to the results of Method 17 and the stack temperature is no greater than 204 °C (400 °F).
(2) In place of Method 16, Method 16A or 16B may be used.
[54 FR 6673, Feb. 14, 1989; 54 FR 21344, May 17, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 5212, Feb. 14, 1990; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart BBa—Standards of Performance for Kraft Pulp Mill Affected Sources for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 23, 2013

# Source:
79 FR 18966, Apr. 4, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.280a
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in kraft pulp mills: digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, lime kiln and condensate stripper system. In pulp mills where kraft pulping is combined with neutral sulfite semichemical pulping, the provisions of this subpart are applicable when any portion of the material charged to an affected facility is produced by the kraft pulping operation.
(b) Except as noted in § 60.283a(a)(1)(iv), any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction or modification after May 23, 2013, is subject to the requirements of this subpart. Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after September 24, 1976, and on or before May 23, 2013 is subject to the requirements of subpart BB of this part.
§ 60.281a
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein must have the same meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A.
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Black liquor solids
(BLS) means the dry weight of the solids which enter the recovery furnace in the black liquor.
Brown stock washer system
means brown stock washers and associated
knotters, vacuum pumps, and filtrate tanks used to wash the pulp following the digester system. Diffusion washers are excluded from this definition.
Closed-vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device.
Condensable particulate matter,
for purposes of this subpart, means particulate matter (PM) measured by EPA Method 202 of appendix M of 40 CFR part 51 that is vapor phase at stack conditions, but condenses and/or reacts upon cooling and dilution in the ambient air to form solid or liquid PM immediately after discharge from the stack.
Condensate stripper system
means a column, and associated condensers, used to strip, with air or steam, total reduced sulfur (TRS) compounds from condensate streams from various processes within a kraft pulp mill.
Cross recovery furnace
means a furnace used to recover chemicals consisting primarily of sodium and sulfur compounds by burning black liquor which on a quarterly basis contains more than 7 weight percent of the total pulp solids from the neutral sulfite semichemical process and has a green liquor sulfidity of more than 28 percent.
Digester system
means each continuous digester or each batch digester used for the cooking of wood in white liquor, and associated flash tank(s), blow tank(s), chip steamer(s) including chip bins using live steam, and condenser(s).
Filterable particulate matter,
for purposes of this subpart, means particulate matter measured by EPA Method 5 of appendix A-3 of this part.
Green liquor sulfidity
means the sulfidity of the liquor which leaves the smelt dissolving tank.
High volume, low concentration (HVLC) closed-vent system
means the gas collection and transport system used to convey gases from the brown stock washer system to a control device.
Kraft pulp mill
means any stationary source which produces pulp from wood by cooking (digesting) wood chips in a water solution of sodium hydroxide and sodium sulfide (white liquor) at high temperature and pressure. Regeneration of the cooking chemicals through a recovery process is also considered part of the kraft pulp mill.
Lime kiln
means a unit used to calcine lime mud, which consists primarily of calcium carbonate, into quicklime, which is calcium oxide.
Low volume, high concentration (LVHC) closed-vent system
means the gas collection and transport system used to convey gases from the digester system, condensate stripper system, and multiple-effect evaporator system to a control device.
Monitoring system malfunction
means a sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. The owner or operator is required to implement monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.
Multiple-effect evaporator system
means the multiple-effect evaporators and associated condenser(s) and hotwell(s) used to concentrate the spent cooking liquid that is separated from the pulp (black liquor).
Neutral sulfite semichemical pulping operation
means any operation in which pulp is produced from wood by cooking (digesting) wood chips in a solution of sodium sulfite and sodium bicarbonate, followed by mechanical defibrating (grinding).
No-load fan amperage
means, for the purposes of this subpart, the amperage pulled by the fan motor when the fan is operating under no-load, specifically the amperage value the motor would use if the fan belt was removed or the coupling to a direct drive fan was disconnected.
Recovery furnace
means either a straight kraft recovery furnace or a cross recovery furnace, and includes the direct-contact evaporator for a direct-contact furnace.
Smelt dissolving tank
means a vessel used for dissolving the smelt collected from the recovery furnace.
Straight kraft recovery furnace
means a furnace used to recover chemicals consisting primarily of sodium and sulfur compounds by burning black liquor which on a quarterly basis contains 7 weight percent or less of the total pulp solids from the neutral sulfite semichemical process or has green liquor sulfidity of 28 percent or less.
Total reduced sulfur (TRS)
means the sum of the sulfur compounds hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan, dimethyl sulfide, and dimethyl disulfide that are released during the kraft pulping operation and measured by Method 16 of appendix A-6 of this part.
[79 FR 18966, Apr. 4, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 70492, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 60.282a
Standard for filterable particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From any modified recovery furnace any gases which:
(i) Contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.10 gram per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm) (0.044 grain per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf)) corrected to 8-percent oxygen.
(ii) Exhibit 20-percent opacity or greater, where an electrostatic precipitator (ESP) emission control device is used, except where it is used in combination with a wet scrubber.
(2) From any new or reconstructed recovery furnace any gases which:
(i) Contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.034 g/dscm (0.015 gr/dscf) corrected to 8-percent oxygen.
(ii) Exhibit 20-percent opacity or greater, where an ESP emission control device is used, except where it is used in combination with a wet scrubber.
(3) From any modified or reconstructed smelt dissolving tank, or from any new smelt dissolving tank that is not associated with a new or reconstructed recovery furnace subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any gases which contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.1 gram per kilogram (g/kg) (0.2 pound per ton (lb/ton)) of black liquor solids (dry weight).
(4) From any new smelt dissolving tank associated with a new or reconstructed recovery furnace subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any gases which contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.060 g/kg (0.12 lb/ton) black liquor solids (dry weight).
(5) From any modified lime kiln any gases which:
(i) Contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.15 g/dscm (0.064 gr/dscf) corrected to 10-percent oxygen.
(ii) Exhibit 20-percent opacity or greater, where an ESP emission control device is used, except where it is used in combination with a wet scrubber.
(6) From any new or reconstructed lime kiln any gases which:
(i) Contain filterable particulate matter in excess of 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf) corrected to 10-percent oxygen.
(ii) Exhibit 20-percent opacity or greater, where an ESP emission control device is used, except where it is used in combination with a wet scrubber.
(b) These standards apply at all times as specified in §§ 60.284a and 60.285a.
(c) The exemptions to opacity standards under 40 CFR 60.11(c) do not apply to subpart BBa.
§ 60.283a
Standard for total reduced sulfur (TRS).
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart must cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system any gases which contain TRS in excess of 5 parts per million (ppm) by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 10-percent oxygen, unless one of the following conditions are met:
(i) The gases are collected in an LVHC or HVLC closed-vent system meeting the requirements of § 63.450 and combusted in a lime kiln subject to the provisions of either paragraph (a)(5) of this section or § 60.283(a)(5); or
(ii) The gases are collected in an LVHC or HVLC closed-vent system meeting the requirements of § 63.450 and combusted in a recovery furnace subject to the provisions of either paragraphs (a)(2) or (3) of this section or § 60.283(a)(2) or (3); or
(iii) The gases are collected in an LVHC or HVLC closed-vent system meeting the requirements of § 63.450 and combusted with other waste gases in an incinerator or other device, or combusted in a lime kiln or recovery furnace not subject to the provisions of this subpart (or subpart BB of this part), and are subjected to a minimum temperature of 650 °C (1200 14 °F) for at least 0.5 second; or
(iv) It has been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction by the owner or operator that incinerating the exhaust gases from a new, modified, or reconstructed brown stock washer system is technologically or economically unfeasible. Any exempt system will become subject to the provisions of this subpart if the facility is changed so that the gases can be incinerated.
(v) The gases from the digester system, brown stock washer system, or condensate stripper system are collected in an LVHC or HVLC closed-vent system meeting the requirements of § 63.450 and controlled by a means other than combustion. In this case, this system must not discharge any gases to the atmosphere which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, uncorrected for oxygen content.
(vi) The uncontrolled exhaust gases from a new, modified, or reconstructed digester system contain TRS less than 0.005 g/kg (0.01 lb/ton) air dried pulp (ADP).
(2) From any straight kraft recovery furnace any gases which contain TRS in excess of 5 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 8-percent oxygen.
(3) From any cross recovery furnace any gases which contain TRS in excess of 25 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 8-percent oxygen.
(4) From any smelt dissolving tank any gases which contain TRS in excess of 0.016 g/kg (0.033 lb/ton) of black liquor solids as hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S).
(5) From any lime kiln any gases which contain TRS in excess of 8 ppm by volume on a dry basis, corrected to 10-percent oxygen.
(b) These standards apply at all times as specified in §§ 60.284a and 60.285a.
§ 60.284a
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the continuous monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the opacity of the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any recovery furnace or lime kiln using an ESP emission control device, except as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The span of this system must be set at 70-percent opacity. You must install, certify, and operate the continuous opacity monitoring system in accordance with Performance Specification (PS) 1 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60.
(2) Continuous monitoring systems to monitor and record the concentration of TRS emissions on a dry basis and the percent of oxygen by volume on a dry basis in the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any lime kiln, recovery furnace, digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system, except where the provisions of § 60.283a(a)(1)(iii) or (iv) apply. You must install, certify, and operate the continuous TRS monitoring system in accordance with Performance Specification (PS) 5 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60. You must install, certify, and operate the continuous oxygen monitoring system in accordance with Performance Specification (PS) 3 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60. These systems must be located downstream of the control device(s). The range of the continuous monitoring system must encompass all expected concentration values, including the zero and span values used for calibration. The spans of these continuous monitoring system(s) must be set:
(i) At a TRS concentration of 30 ppm for the TRS continuous monitoring system, except that for any cross recovery furnace the span must be set at 50 ppm.
(ii) At 21-percent oxygen for the continuous oxygen monitoring system.
(b) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the following continuous parameter monitoring devices specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) For any incinerator, a monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the combustion temperature at the point of incineration of effluent gases which are emitted from any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system where the provisions of § 60.283a(a)(1)(iii) apply. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±1 percent of the temperature being measured.
(2) For any recovery furnace, lime kiln, or smelt dissolving tank using a wet scrubber emission control device:
(i) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure drop of the gas stream through the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within a gage pressure of ±500 Pascals (±2 inches water gage pressure).
(ii) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid flow rate. The monitoring device used for continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid flow rate must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±5 percent of the design scrubbing liquid flow rate.
(iii) As an alternative to pressure drop measurement under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, a monitoring device for measurement of fan amperage or revolutions per minute (RPM) may be used for smelt dissolving tank dynamic scrubbers that operate at ambient pressure or for low-energy entrainment scrubbers where the fan speed does not vary.
(iv) As an alternative to scrubbing liquid flow rate measurement under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, a monitoring device for measurement of scrubbing liquid supply pressure may be used. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±15 percent of design scrubbing liquid supply pressure. The pressure sensor or tap is to be located close to the scrubber liquid discharge point. The Administrator may be consulted for approval of alternative locations.
(3) For any recovery furnace or lime kiln using an ESP emission control device, the owner or operator must use the continuous parameter monitoring devices specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the secondary voltage of each ESP collection field.
(ii) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the secondary current of each ESP collection field.
(iii) Total secondary power may be calculated as the product of the secondary voltage and secondary current measurements for each ESP collection field and used to demonstrate compliance as an alternative to the secondary voltage and secondary current measurements.
(4) For any recovery furnace or lime kiln using an ESP followed by a wet scrubber, the owner or operator must use the continuous parameter monitoring devices specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. The opacity monitoring system specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not required for combination ESP/wet scrubber control device systems.
(c)
Monitor operation and calculations.
Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart must follow the procedures for collecting and reducing monitoring data and setting operating limits in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section. Subpart A of this part specifies methods for reducing continuous opacity monitoring system data.
(1) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart must, except where the provisions of § 60.283a(a)(1)(iii) or (iv) apply, perform the following:
(i) Calculate and record on a daily basis 12-hour average TRS concentrations for the two consecutive periods of each operating day. Each 12-hour average must be determined as the arithmetic mean of the appropriate 12 contiguous 1-hour average TRS concentrations provided by each continuous
monitoring system installed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(ii) Calculate and record on a daily basis 12-hour average oxygen concentrations for the two consecutive periods of each operating day for the recovery furnace and lime kiln. These 12- hour averages must correspond to the 12-hour average TRS concentrations under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section and must be determined as an arithmetic mean of the appropriate 12 contiguous 1-hour average oxygen concentrations provided by each continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(iii) Using the following equation, correct all 12-hour average TRS concentrations to 10 volume percent oxygen, except that all 12-hour average TRS concentrations from a recovery furnace must be corrected to 8 volume percent oxygen instead of 10 percent, and all 12-hour average TRS concentrations from a facility to which the provisions of § 60.283a(a)(1)(v) apply must not be corrected for oxygen content:
C
corr
= C
meas
× (21−X/21−Y)
Where:
C
corr
= the concentration corrected for oxygen.
C
meas
= the 12-hour average of the measured concentrations uncorrected for oxygen.
X = the volumetric oxygen concentration in percentage to be corrected to (8 percent for recovery furnaces and 10 percent for lime kilns, incinerators, or other devices).
Y = the 12-hour average of the measured volumetric oxygen concentration.
(2) Record at least once each successive 5-minute period all measurements obtained from the continuous monitoring devices installed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Calculate 3-hour block averages from the recorded measurements of incinerator temperature. Temperature measurements recorded when no TRS emissions are fired in the incinerator (e.g., during incinerator warm-up and cool-down periods when no TRS emissions are generated or an alternative control device is used) may be omitted from the block average calculation.
(3) Record at least once each successive 15-minute period all measurements obtained from the continuous monitoring devices installed under paragraph (b)(2) through (4) of this section and reduce the data as follows:
(i) Calculate 12-hour block averages from the recorded measurements of wet scrubber pressure drop (or smelt dissolving tank scrubber fan amperage or RPM) and liquid flow rate (or liquid supply pressure), as applicable.
(ii) Calculate semiannual averages from the recorded measurements of ESP parameters (secondary voltage and secondary current, or total secondary power) for ESP-controlled recovery furnaces or lime kilns that measure opacity in addition to ESP parameters.
(iii) Calculate 12-hour block averages from the recorded measurements of ESP parameters (secondary voltage and secondary current, or total secondary power) for recovery furnaces or lime kilns with combination ESP/wet scrubber controls.
(4) During the initial performance test required in § 60.285a, the owner or operator must establish site-specific operating limits for the monitoring parameters in paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section by continuously monitoring the parameters and determining the arithmetic average value of each parameter during the performance test. The arithmetic average of the measured values for the three test runs establishes your minimum site-specific operating limit for each wet scrubber or ESP parameter (except for smelt dissolving tank scrubber fan amperage or RPM). For smelt dissolving tank scrubber fan amperage, set the minimum operating limit using one of the methods in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section. For smelt dissolving tank scrubber RPM, the minimum RPM must be set as specified in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section. Multiple performance tests may be conducted to establish a range of parameter values. The owner or operator may establish replacement operating limits for the monitoring parameters during subsequent performance tests using the test methods in § 60.285a.
(i) The minimum fan amperage operating limit must be set as the midpoint between the lowest of the 1-hour average fan amperage values associated with each test run demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission
limit in § 60.282a and the no-load amperage value. The no-load amperage value must be determined using manufacturers specifications, or by performing a no-load test of the fan motor for each smelt dissolving tank scrubber; or
(ii) The minimum percent full load amperage (PFLA) to the fan motor must be set as the percent of full load amperage under no-load, plus 10 percent. The PFLA is calculated by dividing the no-load amperage value by the highest of the 1-hour average fan amperage values associated with each test run demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 60.282a multiplied by 100 and then adding 10 percent. The no-load amperage value must be determined using manufacturers specifications, or by performing a no-load test of the fan motor for each smelt dissolving tank scrubber.
(iii) The minimum RPM must be set as 5 percent lower than the lowest 1-hour average RPM associated with each test run demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.
(5) You must operate the continuous monitoring systems required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section to collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected facility is operating except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments.
(6) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating limits. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.
(7) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required quality monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, system accuracy audits and required zero and span adjustments), failure to collect required data is a deviation of the monitoring requirements.
(d) Excess emissions are defined for this subpart as follows:
(1) For emissions from any recovery furnace, periods of excess emissions are:
(i) All 12-hour averages of TRS concentrations above 5 ppm by volume at 8-percent oxygen for straight kraft recovery furnaces and above 25 ppm by volume at 8-percent oxygen for cross recovery furnaces during times when BLS is fired.
(ii) All 6-minute average opacities that exceed 20 percent during times when BLS is fired.
(2) For emissions from any lime kiln, periods of excess emissions are:
(i) All 12-hour average TRS concentrations above 8 ppm by volume at 10-percent oxygen during times when lime mud is fired.
(ii) All 6-minute average opacities that exceed 20 percent during times when lime mud is fired.
(3) For emissions from any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system, periods of excess emissions are:
(i) All 12-hour average TRS concentrations above 5 ppm by volume at 10-percent oxygen unless the provisions of § 60.283a(a)(1)(i), (ii), or (iv) apply; or
(ii) All 3-hour block averages during which the combustion temperature at the point of incineration is less than 650 °C (1200 14 °F), where the provisions of § 60.283a(a)(1)(iii) apply and an incinerator is used as the combustion device.
(iii) All times when gases are not routed through the closed-vent system to one of the control devices specified in § 60.283a(a)(1)(i) through (iii) and (v).
(4) For any recovery furnace, lime kiln, or smelt dissolving tank controlled with a wet scrubber emission control device that complies with the parameter monitoring requirements specified in § 60.284a(b)(2), periods of excess emissions are:
(i) All 12-hour block average scrubbing liquid flow rate (or scrubbing liquid supply pressure) measurements below the minimum site-specific limit established during performance testing during times when BLS or lime mud is fired (as applicable), and
(ii) All 12-hour block average scrubber pressure drop (or fan amperage or RPM, if used as an alternative under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section) measurements below the minimum site-specific limit established during performance testing during times when BLS or lime mud is fired (as applicable), except during startup and shutdown.
(5) For any recovery furnace or lime kiln controlled with an ESP followed by a wet scrubber that complies with the parameter monitoring requirements specified in § 60.284a(b)(4), periods of excess emissions are:
(i) All 12-hour block average scrubbing liquid flow rate (or scrubbing liquid supply pressure) measurements below the minimum site-specific limit established during performance testing during times when BLS or lime mud is fired (as applicable), and
(ii) All 12-hour block average scrubber pressure drop measurements below the minimum site-specific limit established during performance testing during times when BLS or lime mud is fired (as applicable) except during startup and shutdown,
(iii) All 12-hour block average ESP secondary voltage measurements below the minimum site-specific limit established during performance testing during times when BLS or lime mud is fired (as applicable) including startup and shutdown.
(iv) All 12-hour block average ESP secondary current measurements (or total secondary power values) below the minimum site-specific limit established during performance testing during times when BLS or lime mud is fired (as applicable) except during startup and shutdown.
(e) The Administrator will not consider periods of excess emissions reported under § 60.288a(a) to be indicative of a violation of the standards provided the criteria in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section are met.
(1) The percent of the total number of possible contiguous periods of excess emissions in the semiannual reporting period does not exceed:
(i) One percent for TRS emissions from straight recovery furnaces, provided that the 12-hour average TRS concentration does not exceed 30 ppm corrected to 8-percent oxygen.
(ii) Two percent for average opacities from recovery furnaces, provided that the ESP secondary voltage and secondary current (or total secondary power) averaged over the semiannual period remained above the minimum operating limits established during the performance test.
(iii) One percent for TRS emissions from lime kilns, provided that the 12-hour average TRS concentration does not exceed 22 ppm corrected to 10-percent oxygen.
(iv) One percent for average opacities from lime kilns, provided that the ESP secondary voltage and secondary current (or total secondary power) averaged over the semiannual period remained above the minimum operating limits established during the performance test.
(v) One percent for TRS emissions from cross recovery furnaces, provided that the 12-hour average TRS concentration does not exceed 50 ppm corrected to 8-percent oxygen.
(vi) For closed-vent systems delivering gases to one of the control devices specified in § 60.283a(a)(1)(i) through (iii) and (v), the time of excess emissions divided by the total process operating time in the semiannual reporting period does not exceed:
(A) One percent for LVHC closed-vent systems; or
(B) Four percent for HVLC closed-vent systems or for HVLC and LVHC closed-vent systems combined.
(2) The Administrator determines that the affected facility, including air pollution control equipment, is maintained and operated in a manner which is consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions during periods of excess emissions.
(3) The 12-hour average TRS concentration uncorrected for oxygen may
be considered when determining compliance with the excess emission provisions in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section during periods of startup or shutdown when the 12-hour average stack oxygen percentage approaches ambient conditions. If the 12-hour average TRS concentration uncorrected for oxygen is less than the applicable limit (5 ppm for recovery furnaces or 8 ppm for lime kilns) during periods of startup or shutdown when the 12-hour average stack oxygen concentration is 15 percent or greater, then the Administrator will consider the TRS average to be in compliance. This provision only applies during periods of affected facility startup and shutdown.
(f) The procedures under § 60.13 must be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the continuous monitoring systems required under this section. All continuous monitoring systems must be operated in accordance with the applicable procedures under Performance Specifications 1, 3, and 5 of appendix B of this part.
[79 FR 18966, Apr. 4, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 70492, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 60.285a
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required by this subpart and § 60.8, the owner or operator must use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (f) of this section. Section 60.8(c) must be read as follows for purposes of this subpart: Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator shall specify to the plant operator based on representative performance of the affected facility. The owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of the performance tests. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test.
(b) The owner or operator must determine compliance with the filterable particulate matter standards in § 60.282a(a)(1), (2), (5) and (6) as follows:
(1) Method 5 of appendix A-3 of this part must be used to determine the filterable particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf). Water must be used as the cleanup solvent instead of acetone in the sample recovery procedure. The particulate concentration must be corrected to the appropriate oxygen concentration according to § 60.284a(c)(1)(iii).
(2) The emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B of appendix A-2 of this part must be used to determine the oxygen concentration. The gas sample must be taken at the same time and at the same traverse points as the particulate sample.
(3) Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part and the procedures in § 60.11 must be used to determine opacity. Opacity measurement is not required for recovery furnaces or lime kilns operating with a wet scrubber alone or a wet scrubber in combination with an ESP.
(4) In addition to the initial performance test required by this subpart and § 60.8(a), you must conduct repeat performance tests for filterable particulate matter at intervals no longer than 5 years following the previous performance test using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(5) When the initial and repeat performance tests are conducted for filterable particulate matter, the owner or operator must also measure condensable particulate matter using Method 202 of appendix M of 40 CFR part 51.
(c) The owner or operator must determine compliance with the filterable particular matter standards in § 60.282a(a)(3) and (4) as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of filterable particulate matter must be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = c
s
Q
sd
/BLS
Where:
E = emission rate of filterable particulate matter, g/kg (lb/ton) of BLS.
c
s
= Concentration of filterable particulate matter, g/dscm (lb/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dry standard cubic meter per hour (dscm/
hr) (dry standard cubic feet per hour (dscf/hr)).
BLS = black liquor solids (dry weight) feed rate, kg/hr (ton/hr).
(2) Method 5 of appendix A-3 of this part must be used to determine the filterable particulate matter concentration (c
s
) and the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume must be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf). Water must be used instead of acetone in the sample recovery.
(3) Process data must be used to determine the black liquor solids (BLS) feed rate on a dry weight basis.
(4) In addition to the initial performance test required by this subpart and § 60.8(a), you must conduct repeat performance tests for filterable particulate matter at intervals no longer than 5 years following the previous performance test using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(5) When the initial and repeat performance tests are conducted for filterable particulate matter, the owner or operator must also measure condensable particulate matter using Method 202 of appendix M of 40 CFR part 51.
(d) The owner or operator must determine compliance with the TRS standards in § 60.283a, except § 60.283a(a)(1)(vi) and (4), as follows:
(1) Method 16 of appendix A-6 of this part must be used to determine the TRS concentration. The TRS concentration must be corrected to the appropriate oxygen concentration using the procedure in § 60.284a(c)(1)(iii). The sampling time must be at least 3 hours, but no longer than 6 hours.
(2) The emission rate correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B of appendix A-2 of this part must be used to determine the oxygen concentration. The sample must be taken over the same time period as the TRS samples.
(3) When determining whether a furnace is a straight kraft recovery furnace or a cross recovery furnace, TAPPI Method T 624 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) must be used to determine sodium sulfide, sodium hydroxide, and sodium carbonate. These determinations must be made 3 times daily from the green liquor, and the daily average values must be converted to sodium oxide (Na
2
0) and substituted into the following equation to determine the green liquor sulfidity:
GLS = 100C
Na
2
S
/ (C
Na
2
S
C
NaOH
C
Na
2
CO
3
)
Where:
GLS = green liquor sulfidity, percent.
C
Na
2
S
= concentration of Na
2
S as Na
2
O, milligrams per liter (mg/L) (grains per gallon (gr/gal)).
C
NaOH
= concentration of NaOH as Na
2
O, mg/L (gr/gal).
C
Na
2
CO
3
= concentration of Na
2
CO
3
as Na
2
O, mg/L (gr/gal).
(4) For recovery furnaces and lime kilns, in addition to the initial performance test required in this subpart and § 60.8(a), you must conduct repeat TRS performance tests at intervals no longer than 5 years following the previous performance test using the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(e) The owner or operator must determine compliance with the TRS standards in § 60.283a(a)(1)(vi) and (4) as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of TRS must be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = C
TRS
F Q
sd
/P
Where:
E = emission rate of TRS, g/kg (lb/ton) of BLS or ADP.
CTRS = average combined concentration of TRS, ppm.
F = conversion factor, 0.001417 g H
2
S/cubic meter (m
3
)-ppm (8.846 × 10
-8
lb H
2
S/cubic foot (ft
3
)-ppm).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of stack gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = black liquor solids feed or pulp production rate, kg/hr (ton/hr).
(2) Method 16 of appendix A-6 of this part must be used to determine the TRS concentration (C
TRS
).
(3) Method 2 of appendix A-1 of this part must be used to determine the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas.
(4) Process data must be used to determine the black liquor feed rate or the pulp production rate (P).
(5) For smelt dissolving tanks, in addition to the initial performance test required in this subpart and § 60.8(a), you must conduct repeat TRS performance tests at intervals no longer than 5
years following the previous performance test using the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(f) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:
(1) In place of Method 5 of appendix A-3 of this part, Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part may be used if a constant value of 0.009 g/dscm (0.004 gr/dscf) is added to the results of Method 17 and the stack temperature is no greater than 204 °C (400 °F).
(2) In place of Method 16 of appendix A-6 of this part, Method 16A, 16B, or 16C of appendix A-6 of this part may be used.
(3) In place of Method 3B of appendix A-2 of this part, ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) may be used.
[79 FR 18966, Apr. 4, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 70493, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 60.286a
Affirmative defense for violations of emission standards during malfunction.
In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in §§ 60.282a and 60.283a, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for violations of such standards that are caused by malfunction, as defined at § 60.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed if you fail to meet your burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense must not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(a)
Assertion of affirmative defense.
To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a standard, you must timely meet the reporting requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(1) The violation:
(i) Was caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner; and
(ii) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design or better operation and maintenance practices; and
(iii) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for; and
(iv) Was not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance; and
(2) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when a violation occurred; and
(3) The frequency, amount, and duration of the violation (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable; and
(4) If the violation resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; and
(5) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the violation on ambient air quality, the environment, and human health; and
(6) All emission monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices; and
(7) All of the actions in response to the violation were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs; and
(8) At all times, the affected source was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions; and
(9) A written root cause analysis has been prepared, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the violation resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis must also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of any emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(b)
Report.
The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense must submit a written report to the Administrator with all necessary supporting documentation that explains how it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. This affirmative defense report must be included in the first periodic compliance, deviation report or excess emission report otherwise required after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard (which
may be the end of any applicable averaging period). If such compliance, deviation report or excess emission report is due less than 45 days after the initial occurrence of the violation, the affirmative defense report may be included in the second compliance, deviation report or excess emission report due after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard.
§ 60.287a
Recordkeeping.
(a) The owner or operator must maintain records of the performance evaluations of the continuous monitoring systems.
(b) For each continuous monitoring system, the owner or operator must maintain records of the following information, as applicable:
(1) Records of the opacity of the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any recovery furnace or lime kiln using an ESP emission control device, except as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, and records of the ESP secondary voltage and secondary current (or total secondary power) averaged over the reporting period for the opacity allowances specified in § 60.284a(e)(1)(ii) and (iv).
(2) Records of the concentration of TRS emissions on a dry basis and the percent of oxygen by volume on a dry basis in the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any lime kiln, recovery furnace, digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple-effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system, except where the provisions of § 60.283a(a)(1)(iii) or (iv) apply.
(3) Records of the incinerator combustion temperature at the point of incineration of effluent gases which are emitted from any digester system, brown stock washer system, multiple effect evaporator system, or condensate stripper system where the provisions of § 60.283a(a)(1)(iii) apply and an incinerator is used as the combustion device.
(4) For any recovery furnace, lime kiln, or smelt dissolving tank using a wet scrubber emission control device:
(i) Records of the pressure drop of the gas stream through the control equipment (or smelt dissolving tank scrubber fan amperage or RPM), and
(ii) Records of the scrubbing liquid flow rate (or scrubbing liquid supply pressure).
(5) For any recovery furnace or lime kiln using an ESP control device:
(i) Records of the secondary voltage of each ESP collection field, and
(ii) Records of the secondary current of each ESP collection field, and
(iii) If used as an alternative to secondary voltage and current, records of the total secondary power of each ESP collection field.
(6) For any recovery furnace or lime kiln using an ESP followed by a wet scrubber, the records specified under paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section.
(7) Records of excess emissions as defined in § 60.284a(d).
(c) For each malfunction, the owner or operator must maintain records of the following information:
(1) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (i.e., process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
(2) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
[79 FR 18966, Apr. 4, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 70493, Nov. 5, 2020]
§ 60.288a
Reporting.
(a) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart must report semiannually periods of excess emissions defined in § 60.284a(d).
(b) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (defined in § 60.8) as required by this subpart you must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, required by this subpart to the EPA as follows. You must use the latest version of the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html
) existing at the time of the performance test to generate a submission package file, which documents performance test data. You must then
submit the file generated by the ERT through the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed by logging in to the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). Only data collected using test methods supported by the ERT as listed on the ERT Web site are subject to the requirement to submit the performance test data electronically. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (b). At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports, including the CBI, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not listed on the ERT Web site, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4.
(c) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation test as defined in § 60.13, you must submit relative accuracy test audit (RATA) data to the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) by using CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Only RATA pollutants that can be documented with the ERT (as listed on the ERT Web site) are subject to this requirement. For any performance evaluations with no corresponding RATA pollutants listed on the ERT Web site, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4.
(d) If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, you must submit a report that contains the following:
(1) The number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded.
(2) A description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected facility to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.

# Subpart CC—Standards of Performance for Glass Manufacturing Plants
§ 60.290
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) Each glass melting furnace is an affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after June 15, 1979, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(c) This subpart does not apply to hand glass melting furnaces, glass melting furnaces designed to produce less than 4.55 Mg (5 tons) of glass per day and all-electric melters.
[45 FR 66751, Oct. 7, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.291
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part, unless otherwise required by the context.
All-electric melter
means a glass melting furnace in which all the heat required for melting is provided by electric current from electrodes submerged in the molten glass, although some fossil fuel may be charged to the furnace as raw material only.
Borosilicate recipe
means glass product composition of the following approximate ranges of weight proportions: 60 to 80 percent silicon dioxide, 4 to 10 percent total R
2
O (e.g., Na
2
O and K
2
O), 5 to 35 percent boric oxides, and 0 to 13 percent other oxides.
Container glass
means glass made of soda-lime recipe, clear or colored,
which is pressed and/or blown into bottles, jars, ampoules, and other products listed in Standard Industrial Classification 3221 (SIC 3221).
Experimental furnace
means a glass melting furnace with the sole purpose of operating to evaluate glass melting processes, technologies, or glass products. An experimental furnace does not produce glass that is sold (except for further research and development purposes) or that is used as a raw material for nonexperimental furnaces.
Flat glass
means glass made of soda-lime recipe and produced into continuous flat sheets and other products listed in SIC 3211.
Flow channels
means appendages used for conditioning and distributing molten glass to forming apparatuses and are a permanently separate source of emissions such that no mixing of emissions occurs with emissions from the melter cooling system prior to their being vented to the atmosphere.
Glass melting furnace
means a unit comprising a refractory vessel in which raw materials are charged, melted at high temperature, refined, and conditioned to produce molten glass. The unit includes foundations, superstructure and retaining walls, raw material charger systems, heat exchangers, melter cooling system, exhaust system, refractory brick work, fuel supply and electrical boosting equipment, integral control systems and instrumentation, and appendages for conditioning and distributing molten glass to forming apparatuses. The forming apparatuses, including the float bath used in flat glass manufacturing and flow channels in wool fiberglass and textile fiberglass manufacturing, are not considered part of the glass melting furnace.
Glass produced
means the weight of the glass pulled from the glass melting furnace.
Hand glass melting furnace
means a glass melting furnace where the molten glass is removed from the furnace by a glassworker using a blowpipe or a pontil.
Lead recipe
means glass product composition of the following ranges of weight proportions: 50 to 60 percent silicon dioxide, 18 to 35 percent lead oxides, 5 to 20 percent total R
2
O (e.g., Na
2
O and K
2
O), 0 to 8 percent total R
2
O
3
(e.g., Al
2
O
3
), 0 to 15 percent total RO (e.g., CaO, MgO), other than lead oxide, and 5 to 10 percent other oxides.
Pressed and blown glass
means glass which is pressed, blown, or both, including textile fiberglass, noncontinuous flat glass, noncontainer glass, and other products listed in SIC 3229. It is separated into:
(1) Glass of borosilicate recipe.
(2) Glass of soda-lime and lead recipes.
(3) Glass of opal, fluoride, and other recipes.
Rebricking
means cold replacement of damaged or worn refractory parts of the glass melting furnace. Rebricking includes replacement of the refractories comprising the bottom, sidewalls, or roof of the melting vessel; replacement of refractory work in the heat exchanger; replacement of refractory portions of the glass conditioning and distribution system.
Soda-lime recipe
means glass product composition of the following ranges of weight proportions: 60 to 75 percent silicon dioxide, 10 to 17 percent total R
2
O (e.g., Na
2
O and K
2
O), 8 to 20 percent total RO but not to include any PbO (e.g., CaO, and MgO), 0 to 8 percent total R
2
O
3
(e.g., Al
2
O
3
), and 1 to 5 percent other oxides.
Textile fiberglass
means fibrous glass in the form of continuous strands having uniform thickness.
With modified-processes
means using any technique designed to minimize emissions without the use of add-on pollution controls.
Wool fiberglass
means fibrous glass of random texture, including fiberglass insulation, and other products listed in SIC 3296.
[45 FR 66751, Oct. 7, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 41035, Oct. 19, 1984; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.292
Standards for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator of a glass melting furnace subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere—
(1) From any glass melting furnace fired exclusively with either a gaseous
fuel or a liquid fuel, particulate matter at emission rates exceeding those specified in table CC-1, Column 2 and Column 3, respectively, or
(2) From any glass melting furnace, fired simultaneously with gaseous and liquid fuels, particulate matter at emission rates exceeding STD as specified by the following equation:
STD = X [1.3(Y) + (Z)]
Where:
STD = Particulate matter emission limit, g of particulate/kg (lb of particulate/ton) of glass produced.
X = Emission rate specified in table CC-1 for furnaces fired with gaseous fuel (Column 2).
Y = Decimal fraction of liquid fuel heating value to total (gaseous and liquid) fuel heating value fired in the glass melting furnaces as determined in § 60.296(b). (joules/joules).
Z = (1-Y).
(b) Conversion of a glass melting furnace to the use of liquid fuel is not considered a modification for the purposes of § 60.14.
(c) Rebricking and the cost of rebricking is not considered a reconstruction for the purposes of § 60.15.
(d) An owner or operator of an experimental furnace is not subject to the requirements of this section.
(e) During routine maintenance of add-on pollution controls, an owner or operator of a glass melting furnace subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section is exempt from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) Routine maintenance in each calendar year does not exceed 6 days;
(2) Routine maintenance is conducted in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions; and
(3) A report is submitted to the Administrator 10 days before the start of the routine maintenance (if 10 days cannot be provided, the report must be submitted as soon as practicable) and the report contains an explanation of the schedule of the maintenance.
Table CC-1—
Emission Rates
[g of particulate/kg of glass produced]
Col. 1—Glass manufacturing plant industry segment
Col. 2—Furnace fired with gaseous fuel
Col. 3—Furnace fired with liquid fuel
Container glass
0.1
0.13
Pressed and blown glass
(a) Borosilicate Recipes
0.5
0.65
(b) Soda-Lime and Lead Recipes
0.1
0.13
(c) Other-Than Borosilicate, Soda-Lime, and Lead Recipes (including opal, fluoride, and other recipes)
0.25
0.325
Wool fiberglass
0.25
0.325
Flat glass
0.225
0.225
[45 FR 66751, Oct. 7, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 41035, Oct. 19, 1984; 54 FR 6674, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.293
Standards for particulate matter from glass melting furnace with modified-processes.
(a) An owner or operator of a glass melting furnaces with modified-processes is not subject to the provisions of § 60.292 if the affected facility complies with the provisions of this section.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator of a glass melting furnace with modified-processes subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility:
(1) Particulate matter at emission rates exceeding 0.5 gram of particulate per kilogram of glass produced (g/kg) as measured according to paragraph (e) of this section for container glass, flat glass, and pressed and blown glass with a soda-lime recipe melting furnaces.
(2) Particulate matter at emission rates exceeding 1.0 g/kg as measured according to paragraph (e) of this section for pressed and blown glass with a borosilicate recipe melting furnace.
(3) Particulate matter at emission rates exceeding 0.5 g/kg as measured according to paragraph (e) of this section for textile fiberglass and wool fiberglass melting furnaces.
(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility that is subject to emission limits specified under paragraph (b) of this section shall:
(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility.
(2) During the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8, conduct continuous opacity monitoring during each test run.
(3) Calculate 6-minute opacity averages from 24 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period during the test runs.
(4) Determine, based on the 6-minute opacity averages, the opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level of a normal distribution of average opacity values.
(5) For the purposes of § 60.7, report to the Administrator as excess emissions all of the 6-minute periods during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, exceeds the opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level determined under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(d)(1) After receipt and consideration of written application, the Administrator may approve alternative continuous monitoring systems for the measurement of one or more process or operating parameters that is or are demonstrated to enable accurate and representative monitoring of an emission limit specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) After the Administrator approves an alternative continuous monitoring system for an affected facility, the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) through (5) of this section will not apply for that affected facility.
(e) An owner or operator may redetermine the opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section if the owner or operator:
(1) Conducts continuous opacity monitoring during each test run of a performance test that demonstrates compliance with an emission limit of paragraph (b) of this section,
(2) Recalculates the 6-minute opacity averages as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and
(3) Uses the redetermined opacity value corresponding to the 99 percent upper confidence level for the purposes of paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(f) Test methods and procedures as specified in § 60.296 shall be used to determine compliance with this section except that to determine compliance for any glass melting furnace using modified processes and fired with either a gaseous fuel or a liquid fuel containing less than 0.50 weight percent sulfur, Method 5 shall be used with the probe and filter holder heating system in the sampling train set to provide a gas temperature of 120 ±14 °C (248 ±25 °F).
[49 FR 41036, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended at 64 FR 7466, Feb. 12, 1999; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]
§§ 60.294-60.295
[Reserved]
§ 60.296
Test methods and procedures.
(a) If a glass melting furnace with modified processes is changed to one without modified processes or if a glass melting furnace without modified processes is changed to one with modified processes, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 60 days before the change is scheduled to occur.
(b) When gaseous and liquid fuels are fired simultaneously in a glass melting furnace, the owner or operator shall determine the applicable standard under § 60.292(a)(2) as follows:
(1) The ratio (Y) of liquid fuel heating value to total (gaseous and liquid) fuel heating value fired in the glass melting furnaces shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
Y = (H
l
L)/(H
l
L + H
g
G)
where:
Y = decimal fraction of liquid fuel heating value to total fuel heating value.
H
l
= gross calorific value of liquid fuel, J/kg.
H
g
= gross calorific value of gaseous fuel, J/kg.
L = liquid flow rate, kg/hr.
G = gaseous flow rate, kg/hr.
(2) Suitable methods shall be used to determine the rates (L and G) of fuels burned during each test period and a material balance over the glass melting furnace shall be used to confirm the rates.
(3) ASTM Method D240-76 or 92 (liquid fuels) and D1826-77 or 94 (gaseous fuels) (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17), as applicable, shall be used to determine the gross calorific values.
(c) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in §§ 60.292 and 60.293 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = (c
s
Q
sd
−A)/P
where:
E = emission rate of particulate matter, g/kg.
c
s
= concentration of particulate matter, g/dsm.
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate, dscm/hr.
A = zero production rate correction
= 227 g/hr for container glass, pressed and blown (soda-lime and lead) glass, and pressed and blown (other than borosilicate, soda-lime, and lead) glass.
= 454 g/hr for pressed and blown (borosilicate) glass, wool fiberglass, and flat glass.
P = glass production rate, kg/hr.
(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c
s
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf). The probe and filter holder heating system may be set to provide a gas temperature no greater than 177 ±14 °C (350 ±25 °F), except under the conditions specified in § 60.293(e).
(3) Direct measurement or material balance using good engineering practice shall be used to determine the amount of glass pulled during the performance test. The rate of glass produced is defined as the weight of glass pulled from the affected facility during the performance test divided by the number of hours taken to perform the performance test.
(4) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
[54 FR 6674, Feb. 14, 1989; 54 FR 21344, May 17, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart DD—Standards of Performance for Grain Elevators

# Source:
43 FR 34347, Aug. 3, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.300
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility at any grain terminal elevator or any grain storage elevator, except as provided under § 60.304(b). The affected facilities are each truck unloading station, truck loading station, barge and ship unloading station, barge and ship loading station, railcar loading station, railcar unloading station, grain dryer, and all grain handling operations.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section which commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after August 3, 1978, is subject to the requirements of this part.
[43 FR 34347, Aug. 3, 1978, as amended at 52 FR 42434, Nov. 5, 1988]
§ 60.301
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Grain
means corn, wheat, sorghum, rice, rye, oats, barley, and soybeans.
(b)
Grain elevator
means any plant or installation at which grain is unloaded, handled, cleaned, dried, stored, or loaded.
(c)
Grain terminal elevator
means any grain elevator which has a permanent storage capacity of more than 88,100 m
3
(ca. 2.5 million U.S. bushels), except those located at animal food manufacturers, pet food manufacturers, cereal manufacturers, breweries, and livestock feedlots.
(d)
Permanent storage capacity
means grain storage capacity which is inside a building, bin, or silo.
(e)
Railcar
means railroad hopper car or boxcar.
(f)
Grain storage elevator
means any grain elevator located at any wheat flour mill, wet corn mill, dry corn mill (human consumption), rice mill, or soybean oil extraction plant which has a permanent grain storage capacity of 35,200 m
3
(ca. 1 million bushels).
(g)
Process emission
means the particulate matter which is collected by a capture system.
(h)
Fugitive emission
means the particulate matter which is not collected by a capture system and is released directly into the atmosphere from an affected facility at a grain elevator.
(i)
Capture system
means the equipment such as sheds, hoods, ducts, fans, dampers, etc. used to collect particulate matter generated by an affected facility at a grain elevator.
(j)
Grain unloading station
means that portion of a grain elevator where the grain is transferred from a truck, railcar, barge, or ship to a receiving hopper.
(k)
Grain loading station
means that portion of a grain elevator where the grain is transferred from the elevator to a truck, railcar, barge, or ship.
(l)
Grain handling operations
include bucket elevators or legs (excluding legs used to unload barges or ships), scale hoppers and surge bins (garners), turn heads, scalpers, cleaners, trippers, and the headhouse and other such structures.
(m)
Column dryer
means any equipment used to reduce the moisture content of grain in which the grain flows from the top to the bottom in one or more continuous packed columns between two perforated metal sheets.
(n)
Rack dryer
means any equipment used to reduce the moisture content of grain in which the grain flows from the top to the bottom in a cascading flow around rows of baffles (racks).
(o)
Unloading leg
means a device which includes a bucket-type elevator which is used to remove grain from a barge or ship.
[43 FR 34347, Aug. 3, 1978, as amended at 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.302
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the 60th day of achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but no later than 180 days after initial startup, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases which exhibit greater than 0 percent opacity from any:
(1) Column dryer with column plate perforation exceeding 2.4 mm diameter (ca. 0.094 inch).
(2) Rack dryer in which exhaust gases pass through a screen filter coarser than 50 mesh.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility except a grain dryer any process emission which:
(1) Contains particulate matter in excess of 0.023 g/dscm (ca. 0.01 gr/dscf).
(2) Exhibits greater than 0 percent opacity.
(c) On and after the 60th day of achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but no later than 180 days after initial startup, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any fugitive emission from:
(1) Any individual truck unloading station, railcar unloading station, or railcar loading station, which exhibits greater than 5 percent opacity.
(2) Any grain handling operation which exhibits greater than 0 percent opacity.
(3) Any truck loading station which exhibits greater than 10 percent opacity.
(4) Any barge or ship loading station which exhibits greater than 20 percent opacity.
(d) The owner or operator of any barge or ship unloading station shall operate as follows:
(1) The unloading leg shall be enclosed from the top (including the receiving hopper) to the center line of the bottom pulley and ventilation to a control device shall be maintained on both sides of the leg and the grain receiving hopper.
(2) The total rate of air ventilated shall be at least 32.1 actual cubic meters per cubic meter of grain handling capacity (ca. 40 ft
3
/bu).
(3) Rather than meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section the owner or operator may use other methods of emission control if it is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction that they would reduce emissions of particulate matter to the same level or less.
§ 60.303
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.302 as follows:
(1) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration and the volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 1.70 dscm (60 dscf). The probe and filter holder shall be operated without heaters.
(2) Method 2 shall be used to determine the ventilation volumetric flow rate.
(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(c) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:
(1) For Method 5, Method 17 may be used.
[54 FR 6674, Feb. 14, 1989]
§ 60.304
Modifications.
(a) The factor 6.5 shall be used in place of “annual asset guidelines repair allowance percentage,” to determine whether a capital expenditure as defined by § 60.2 has been made to an existing facility.
(b) The following physical changes or changes in the method of operation shall not by themselves be considered a modification of any existing facility:
(1) The addition of gravity loadout spouts to existing grain storage or grain transfer bins.
(2) The installation of automatic grain weighing scales.
(3) Replacement of motor and drive units driving existing grain handling equipment.
(4) The installation of permanent storage capacity with no increase in hourly grain handling capacity.

# Subpart EE—Standards of Performance for Surface Coating of Metal Furniture

# Source:
47 FR 49287, Oct. 29, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.310
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each metal furniture surface coating operation in which organic coatings are applied.
(b) This subpart applies to each affected facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section on which construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced after November 28, 1980.
(c) Any owner or operator of a metal furniture surface coating operation that uses less than 3,842 liters of coating (as applied) per year and keeps purchase or inventory records or other data necessary to substantiate annual coating usage shall be exempt from all other provisions of this subpart. These records shall be maintained at the source for a period of at least 2 years.
[47 FR 49287, Oct. 29, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 18248, Apr. 30, 1985]
§ 60.311
Definitions and symbols.
(a) All terms used in this subpart not defined below are given the meaning in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Bake oven
means a device which uses heat to dry or cure coatings.
Dip coating
means a method of applying coatings in which the part is submerged in a tank filled with the coatings.
Electrodeposition (EDP)
means a method of applying coatings in which
the part is submerged in a tank filled with the coatings and in which an electrical potential is used to enhance deposition of the coatings on the part.
Electrostatic spray application
means a spray application method that uses an electrical potential to increase the transfer efficiency of the coatings.
Flash-off area
means the portion of a surface coating operation between the coating application area and bake oven.
Flow coating
means a method of applying coatings in which the part is carried through a chamber containing numerous nozzles which direct unatomized streams of coatings from many different angles onto the surface of the part.
Organic coating
means any coating used in a surface coating operation, including dilution solvents, from which volatile organic compound emissions occur during the application or the curing process. For the purpose of this regulation, powder coatings are not included in this definition.
Powder coating
means any surface coating which is applied as a dry powder and is fused into a continuous coating film through the use of heat.
Spray application
means a method of applying coatings by atomizing and directing the atomized spray toward the part to be coated.
Surface coating operation
means the system on a metal furniture surface coating line used to apply and dry or cure an organic coating on the surface of the metal furniture part or product. The surface coating operation may be a prime coat or a top coat operation and includes the coating application station(s), flash-off area, and curing oven.
Transfer efficiency
means the ratio of the amount of coating solids deposited onto the surface of a part or product to the total amount of coating solids used.
VOC content
means the proportion of a coating that is volatile organic compounds (VOC's), expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of coating solids.
VOC emissions
means the mass of volatile organic compounds (VOC's), expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of applied coating solids, emitted from a metal furniture surface coating operation.
(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined below are given the meaning in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
C
a
= the VOC concentration in each gas stream leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere (parts per million by volume, as carbon)
C
b
= the VOC concentration in each gas stream entering the control device (parts per million by volume, as carbon)
C
f
= the VOC concentration in each gas stream emitted directly to the atmosphere (parts per million by volume, as carbon)
D
c
= density of each coating, as received (kilograms per liter)
D
d
= density of each diluent VOC-solvent (kilograms per liter)
D
r
= density of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (kilograms per liter)
E = VOC destruction efficiency of the control device (fraction)
F = the proportion of total VOC's emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device (fraction)
G = the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's in coatings consumed in a calendar month per unit volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter)
L
c
= the volume of each coating consumed, as received (liters)
L
d
= the volume of each diluent VOC-solvent added to coatings (liters)
L
r
= the volume of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (liters)
L
s
= the volume of coating solids consumed (liters)
M
d
= the mass of diluent VOC-solvent consumed (kilograms)
M
o
= the mass of VOC's in coatings consumed, as received (kilograms)
M
r
= the mass of VOC's recovered by an emission control device (kilograms)
N = the volume weighted average mass of VOC emissions to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter)
Q
a
= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere (dry standard cubic meters per hour)
Q
b
= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream entering the control device (dry standard cubic meters per hour)
Q
f
= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream emitted directly to the atmosphere (dry standard cubic meters per hour)
R = the overall VOC emission reduction achieved for an affected facility (fraction)
T = the transfer efficiency (fraction)
V
s
= the proportion of solids in each coating (or input stream), as received (fraction by volume)
W
o
= the proportion of VOC's in each coating (or input stream), as received (fraction by weight)
§ 60.312
Standard for volatile organic compounds (VOC).
(a) On and after the date on which the initial performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8(a) is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause the discharge into the atmosphere of VOC emissions from any metal furniture surface coating operation in excess of 0.90 kilogram of VOC per liter of coating solids applied.
§ 60.313
Performance tests and compliance provisions.
(a) Section 60.8(d) and (f) do not apply to the performance test procedures required by this subpart.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8(a) and thereafter a performance test each calendar month for each affected facility according to the procedures in this section.
(c) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for determining monthly volume-weighted average emissions of VOC's in kilograms per liter of coating solids applied (G).
(1) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for any affected facility which does not use a capture system and control device to comply with the emissions limit specified under § 60.312. The owner or operator shall determine the composition of the coatings by formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating or by an analysis of each coating, as received, using Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating to determine the VOC content of coatings using Method 24. The owner or operator shall determine the volume of coating and the mass of VOC-solvent used for thinning purposes from company records on a monthly basis. If a common coating distribution system serves more than one affected facility or serves both affected and existing facilities, the owner or operator shall estimate the volume of coating used at each facility by using the average dry weight of coating and the surface area coated by each affected and existing facility or by other procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
(i) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility, except as provided under § 60.313(c)(2) and (c)(3). Each monthly calculation is considered a performance test. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) each calendar month will be determined by the following procedures.
(A) Calculate the mass of VOC's used (M
o
+ M
d
) during each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.015
(ΣL
dj
D
dj
will be 0 if no VOC solvent is added to the coatings, as received.)
Where: n is the number of different coatings used during the calendar month and m is the number of different diluent VOC-solvents used during the calendar month.
(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used (L
s
) in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.016
Where: n is the number of different coatings used during the calendar month.
Select the appropriate transfer efficiency from table 1. If the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that transfer efficiencies other than those shown are appropriate, the Administrator will approve their use on a case-by-case basis. Transfer efficiency values for application methods not listed below shall be determined by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis. An owner or operator must submit sufficient data for
the Administrator to judge the accuracy of the transfer efficiency claims.
Table 1—Transfer Efficiencies
Application methods
Transfer efficiency (T)
Air atomized spray
0.25
Airless spray
.25
Manual electrostatic spray
.60
Nonrotational automatic electrostatic spray
.70
Rotating head electrostatic spray (manual and automatic)
.80
Dip coat and flow coat
.90
Electrodeposition
.95
Where more than one application method is used within a single surface coating operation, the owner or operator shall determine the composition and volume of each coating applied by each method through a means acceptable to the Administrator and compute the weighted average transfer efficiency by the following equation:
EC16NO91.017
Where n is the number of coatings used and p is the number of application methods used.
(C) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.018
(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
N = G
(iii) Where the volume-weighted average mass of VOC discharged to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) is less than or equal to 0.90 kilogram per liter, the affected facility is in compliance.
(iv) If each individual coating used by an affected facility has a VOC content, as received, which when divided by the lowest transfer efficiency at which the coating is applied, results in a value equal to or less than 0.90 kilogram per liter, the affected facility is in compliance provided no VOC's are added to the coatings during distribution or application.
(2) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for any affected facility that uses a capture system and a control device that destroys VOC's (e.g., incinerator) to comply with the emission limit specified under § 60.312.
(i) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R) for the capture system and control device. For the initial performance test the overall reduction efficiency (R) shall be determined as prescribed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section. In subsequent months, the owner or operator may use the most recently determined overall reduction efficiency (R) for the performance test providing control device and capture system operating conditions have not changed. The procedure in, paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (A), (B), and (C), of this section, shall be repeated when directed by the Administrator or when the owner or operator elects to operate the control device or capture system at conditions different from the initial performance test.
(A) Determine the fraction (F) of total VOC's emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device using the following equation:
EC01JN92.010
Where
n is the number of gas streams entering the control device and
m is the number of gas streams emitted directly to the atmosphere.
(B) Determine the destruction efficiency of the control device (E) using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the device by the following equation:
EC01JN92.011
Where:
n is the number of gas streams entering the control device, and
m is the number of gas streams leaving the contol device and entering the atmosphere.
(C) Determine overall reduction efficiency (R) using the following equation:
R = EF
(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equations in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section.
(iii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during each calendar month by the following equation:
N = G(1−R)
(iv) If the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is less than or equal to 0.90 kilogram per liter of coating solids applied, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test.
(3) An owner or operator shall use the following procedure for any affected facility which uses a control device that recovers the VOC's (e.g., carbon adsorber) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.312.
(i) Calculate the total mass of VOC's consumed (M
o
+ M
d
) and the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equations in paragraph (c)(1)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section.
(ii) Calculate the total mass of VOC's recovered (M
r
) during each calendar month using the following equation:
M
r
= L
r
D
r
(iii) Calculate overall reduction efficiency of the control device (R) for each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.019
(iv) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere (N) for each calendar month for each affected facility using equation in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.
(v) If the weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is less than or equal to 0.90 kilogram per liter of coating solids applied, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test.
[47 FR 49287, Oct. 29, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.314
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility which uses a capture system and an incinerator to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.312 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate temperature measurement devices according to the following procedures:
(1) Where thermal incineration is used, a temperature measurement device shall be installed in the firebox. Where catalytic incineration is used, a temperature measurement device shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.
(2) Each temperature measurement device shall be installed, calibrated, and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications. The device shall have an accuracy of the greater of 0.75 percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius or ±2.5 °C.
(3) Each temperature measurement device shall be equipped with a recording device so that a permanent continuous record is produced.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility which uses a capture system and a solvent recovery system to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.312 shall install the equipment necessary to determine the
total volume of VOC-solvent recovered daily.
§ 60.315
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The reporting requirements of § 60.8(a) apply only to the initial performance test. Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include the following data in the report of the initial performance test required under § 60.8(a):
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) for a period of one calendar month from each affected facility.
(2) For each affected facility where compliance is determined under the provisions of § 60.313(c)(1)(iv), a list of the coatings used during a period of one calendar month, the VOC content of each coating calculated from data determined using Method 24 or supplied by the manufacturer of the coating, and the minimum transfer efficiency of any coating application equipment used during the month.
(3) For each affected facility where compliance is achieved through the use of an incineration system, the following additional information will be reported:
(i) The proportion of total VOC's emitted that enters the control device (F),
(ii) The VOC reduction efficiency of the control device (E),
(iii) The average combustion temperature (or the average temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed), and
(iv) A description of the method used to establish the amount of VOC's captured and sent to the incinerator.
(4) For each affected facility where compliance is achieved through the use of a solvent recovery system, the following additional information will be reported:
(i) The volume of VOC-solvent recovered (L
r
), and
(ii) The overall VOC emission reduction achieved (R).
(b) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit a written report to the Administrator every calendar quarter of each instance in which the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) is greater than the limit specified under § 60.312. If no such instances have occurred during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually.
(c) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) the following:
(1) Where compliance with § 60.312 is achieved through the use of thermal incineration, each 3-hour period when metal furniture is being coated during which the average temperature of the device was more than 28 °C below the average temperature of the device during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.313.
(2) Where compliance with § 60.312 is achieved through the use of catalytic incineration, each 3-hour period when metal furniture is being coated during which the average temperature of the device immediately before the catalyst bed is more than 28 °C below the average temperature of the device immediately before the catalyst bed during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.313. Additionally, when metal furniture is being coated, all 3-hour periods during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than 80 percent of the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.313 will be recorded.
(3) For thermal and catalytic incinerators, if no such periods as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section occur, the owner or operator shall state this in the report.
(d) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain at the source, for a period of at least 2 years, records of all data and calculations used to determine VOC emissions from each affected facility.
Where compliance is achieved through the use of thermal incineration, each owner or operator shall maintain, at the source, daily records of the incinerator combustion chamber temperature. If catalytic incineration is used, the owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the gas temperature, both upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed. Where compliance is achieved through the use of a solvent recovery system, the owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the amount of solvent recovered by the system for each affected facility.
[47 FR 49287, Oct. 29, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 51383, Dec. 13, 1990; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.316
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The reference methods in appendix A to this part except as provided under § 60.8(b) shall be used to determine compliance with § 60.312 as follows:
(1) Method 24, or coating manufacturer's formulation data, for use in the determination of VOC content of each batch of coating as applied to the surface of the metal parts. In case of an inconsistency between the Method 24 results and the formulation data, the Method 24 results will govern.
(2) Method 25 for the measurement of VOC concentration.
(3) Method 1 for sample and velocity traverses.
(4) Method 2 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.
(5) Method 3 for gas analysis.
(6) Method 4 for stack gas moisture.
(b) For Method 24, the coating sample must be at least a 1 liter sample in a 1 liter container taken at a point where the sample will be representative of the coating material as applied to the surface of the metal part.
(c) For Method 25, the minimum sampling time for each of 3 runs is 60 minutes and the minimum sample volume is 0.003 dry standard cubic meters except that shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other factors, may be approved by the Administrator.
(d) The Administrator will approve testing of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that testing of representative stacks yields results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks.
Subpart FF [Reserved]

# Subpart GG—Standards of Performance for Stationary Gas Turbines
§ 60.330
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities: All stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load equal to or greater than 10.7 gigajoules (10 million Btu) per hour, based on the lower heating value of the fuel fired.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section which commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after October 3, 1977, is subject to the requirements of this part except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (j) of § 60.332.
[44 FR 52798, Sept. 10, 1979, as amended at 52 FR 42434, Nov. 5, 1987; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.331
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Stationary gas turbine
means any simple cycle gas turbine, regenerative cycle gas turbine or any gas turbine portion of a combined cycle steam/electric generating system that is not self propelled. It may, however, be mounted on a vehicle for portability.
(b)
Simple cycle gas turbine
means any stationary gas turbine which does not recover heat from the gas turbine exhaust gases to preheat the inlet combustion air to the gas turbine, or which does not recover heat from the gas turbine exhaust gases to heat water or generate steam.
(c)
Regenerative cycle gas turbine
means any stationary gas turbine which recovers heat from the gas turbine exhaust gases to preheat the inlet combustion air to the gas turbine.
(d)
Combined cycle gas turbine
means any stationary gas turbine which recovers heat from the gas turbine exhaust gases to heat water or generate steam.
(e)
Emergency gas turbine
means any stationary gas turbine which operates as a mechanical or electrical power source only when the primary power source for a facility has been rendered inoperable by an emergency situation.
(f)
Ice fog
means an atmospheric suspension of highly reflective ice crystals.
(g)
ISO standard day conditions
means 288 degrees Kelvin, 60 percent relative humidity and 101.3 kilopascals pressure.
(h)
Efficiency
means the gas turbine manufacturer's rated heat rate at peak load in terms of heat input per unit of power output based on the lower heating value of the fuel.
(i)
Peak load
means 100 percent of the manufacturer's design capacity of the gas turbine at ISO standard day conditions.
(j)
Base load
means the load level at which a gas turbine is normally operated.
(k)
Fire-fighting turbine
means any stationary gas turbine that is used solely to pump water for extinguishing fires.
(l)
Turbines employed in oil/gas production or oil/gas transportation
means any stationary gas turbine used to provide power to extract crude oil/natural gas from the earth or to move crude oil/natural gas, or products refined from these substances through pipelines.
(m) A
Metropolitan Statistical Area
or
MSA
as defined by the Department of Commerce.
(n)
Offshore platform gas turbines
means any stationary gas turbine located on a platform in an ocean.
(o)
Garrison facility
means any permanent military installation.
(p)
Gas turbine model
means a group of gas turbines having the same nominal air flow, combuster inlet pressure, combuster inlet temperature, firing temperature, turbine inlet temperature and turbine inlet pressure.
(q)
Electric utility stationary gas turbine
means any stationary gas turbine constructed for the purpose of supplying more than one-third of its potential electric output capacity to any utility power distribution system for sale.
(r)
Emergency fuel
is a fuel fired by a gas turbine only during circumstances, such as natural gas supply curtailment or breakdown of delivery system, that make it impossible to fire natural gas in the gas turbine.
(s)
Unit operating hour
means a clock hour during which any fuel is combusted in the affected unit. If the unit combusts fuel for the entire clock hour, it is considered to be a full unit operating hour. If the unit combusts fuel for only part of the clock hour, it is considered to be a partial unit operating hour.
(t)
Excess emissions
means a specified averaging period over which either:
(1) The NO
X
emissions are higher than the applicable emission limit in § 60.332;
(2) The total sulfur content of the fuel being combusted in the affected facility exceeds the limit specified in § 60.333; or
(3) The recorded value of a particular monitored parameter is outside the acceptable range specified in the parameter monitoring plan for the affected unit.
(u)
Natural gas
means a naturally occurring fluid mixture of hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane, or propane) produced in geological formations beneath the Earth's surface that maintains a gaseous state at standard atmospheric temperature and pressure under ordinary conditions. Natural gas contains 20.0 grains or less of total sulfur per 100 standard cubic feet. Equivalents of this in other units are as follows: 0.068 weight percent total sulfur, 680 parts per million by weight (ppmw) total sulfur, and 338 parts per million by volume (ppmv) at 20 degrees Celsius total sulfur. Additionally, natural gas must either be composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume or have a gross calorific value between 950 and 1100 British thermal units (Btu) per standard cubic foot. Natural gas does not include the following gaseous fuels: landfill gas, digester gas, refinery gas, sour gas, blast furnace gas, coal-derived gas, producer gas, coke oven gas,
or any gaseous fuel produced in a process which might result in highly variable sulfur content or heating value.
(v)
Duct burner
means a device that combusts fuel and that is placed in the exhaust duct from another source, such as a stationary gas turbine, internal combustion engine, kiln, etc., to allow the firing of additional fuel to heat the exhaust gases before the exhaust gases enter a heat recovery steam generating unit.
(w)
Lean premix stationary combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine where the air and fuel are thoroughly mixed to form a lean mixture for combustion in the combustor. Mixing may occur before or in the combustion chamber. A unit which is capable of operating in both lean premix and diffusion flame modes is considered a lean premix stationary combustion turbine when it is in the lean premix mode, and it is considered a diffusion flame stationary combustion turbine when it is in the diffusion flame mode.
(x)
Diffusion flame stationary combustion turbine
means any stationary combustion turbine where fuel and air are injected at the combustor and are mixed only by diffusion prior to ignition. A unit which is capable of operating in both lean premix and diffusion flame modes is considered a lean premix stationary combustion turbine when it is in the lean premix mode, and it is considered a diffusion flame stationary combustion turbine when it is in the diffusion flame mode.
(y)
Unit operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight during which any fuel is combusted at any time in the unit. It is not necessary for fuel to be combusted continuously for the entire 24-hour period.
[44 FR 52798, Sept. 10, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 3770, Jan. 27, 1982; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000; 69 FR 41359, July 8, 2004]
§ 60.332
Standard for nitrogen oxides.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, every owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart as specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall comply with one of the following, except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), and (l) of this section.
(1) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any stationary gas turbine, any gases which contain nitrogen oxides in excess of:
EC16NO91.020
where:
STD = allowable ISO corrected (if required as given in § 60.335(b)(1)) NO
X
emission concentration (percent by volume at 15 percent oxygen and on a dry basis),
Y = manufacturer's rated heat rate at manufacturer's rated load (kilojoules per watt hour) or, actual measured heat rate based on lower heating value of fuel as measured at actual peak load for the facility. The value of Y shall not exceed 14.4 kilojoules per watt hour, and
F = NO
X
emission allowance for fuel-bound nitrogen as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(2) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any stationary gas turbine, any gases which contain nitrogen oxides in excess of:
EC16NO91.021
where:
STD = allowable ISO corrected (if required as given in § 60.335(b)(1)) NO
X
emission concentration (percent by volume at 15 percent oxygen and on a dry basis),
Y = manufacturer's rated heat rate at manufacturer's rated peak load (kilojoules per watt hour), or actual measured heat rate based on lower heating value of fuel as measured at actual peak load for the facility. The value of Y shall not exceed 14.4 kilojoules per watt hour, and
F = NO
X
emission allowance for fuel-bound nitrogen as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(3) The use of F in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section is optional. That is, the owner or operator may choose to apply a NO
X
allowance for fuel-bound nitrogen and determine the appropriate F-value in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section or may accept an F-value of zero.
(4) If the owner or operator elects to apply a NO
X
emission allowance for
fuel-bound nitrogen, F shall be defined according to the nitrogen content of the fuel during the most recent performance test required under § 60.8 as follows:
Fuel-bound nitrogen (percent by weight)
F (NO
X
percent by volume)
N ≤ .015
0
0.015
N≤0.1
0.04 (N)
0.1
N≤0.25
0.004 + 0.0067(N-0.1)
N
0.25
0.005
Where:
N = the nitrogen content of the fuel (percent by weight).
or:
Manufacturers may develop and submit to EPA custom fuel-bound nitrogen allowances for each gas turbine model they manufacture. These fuel-bound nitrogen allowances shall be substantiated with data and must be approved for use by the Administrator before the initial performance test required by § 60.8. Notices of approval of custom fuel-bound nitrogen allowances will be published in the
Federal Register.
(b) Electric utility stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load greater than 107.2 gigajoules per hour (100 million Btu/hour) based on the lower heating value of the fuel fired shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c) Stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load equal to or greater than 10.7 gigajoules per hour (10 million Btu/hour) but less than or equal to 107.2 gigajoules per hour (100 million Btu/hour) based on the lower heating value of the fuel fired, shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(d) Stationary gas turbines with a manufacturer's rated base load at ISO conditions of 30 megawatts or less except as provided in § 60.332(b) shall comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(e) Stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load equal to or greater than 10.7 gigajoules per hour (10 million Btu/hour) but less than or equal to 107.2 gigajoules per hour (100 million Btu/hour) based on the lower heating value of the fuel fired and that have commenced construction prior to October 3, 1982 are exempt from paragraph (a) of this section.
(f) Stationary gas turbines using water or steam injection for control of NO
X
emissions are exempt from paragraph (a) when ice fog is deemed a traffic hazard by the owner or operator of the gas turbine.
(g) Emergency gas turbines, military gas turbines for use in other than a garrison facility, military gas turbines installed for use as military training facilities, and fire fighting gas turbines are exempt from paragraph (a) of this section.
(h) Stationary gas turbines engaged by manufacturers in research and development of equipment for both gas turbine emission control techniques and gas turbine efficiency improvements are exempt from paragraph (a) on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Administrator.
(i) Exemptions from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section will be granted on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Administrator in specific geographical areas where mandatory water restrictions are required by governmental agencies because of drought conditions. These exemptions will be allowed only while the mandatory water restrictions are in effect.
(j) Stationary gas turbines with a heat input at peak load greater than 107.2 gigajoules per hour that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction between the dates of October 3, 1977, and January 27, 1982, and were required in the September 10, 1979,
Federal Register
(44 FR 52792) to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, except electric utility stationary gas turbines, are exempt from paragraph (a) of this section.
(k) Stationary gas turbines with a heat input greater than or equal to 10.7 gigajoules per hour (10 million Btu/hour) when fired with natural gas are exempt from paragraph (a)(2) of this section when being fired with an emergency fuel.
(l) Regenerative cycle gas turbines with a heat input less than or equal to 107.2 gigajoules per hour (100 million
Btu/hour) are exempt from paragraph (a) of this section.
[44 FR 52798, Sept. 10, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 3770, Jan. 27, 1982; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000; 69 FR 41359, July 8, 2004]
§ 60.333
Standard for sulfur dioxide.
On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, every owner or operator subject to the provision of this subpart shall comply with one or the other of the following conditions:
(a) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any stationary gas turbine any gases which contain sulfur dioxide in excess of 0.015 percent by volume at 15 percent oxygen and on a dry basis.
(b) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall burn in any stationary gas turbine any fuel which contains total sulfur in excess of 0.8 percent by weight (8000 ppmw).
[44 FR 52798, Sept. 10, 1979, as amended at 69 FR 41360, July 8, 2004]
§ 60.334
Monitoring of operations.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator of any stationary gas turbine subject to the provisions of this subpart and using water or steam injection to control NO
X
emissions shall install, calibrate, maintain and operate a continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the fuel consumption and the ratio of water or steam to fuel being fired in the turbine.
(b) The owner or operator of any stationary gas turbine that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after October 3, 1977, but before July 8, 2004, and which uses water or steam injection to control NO
X
emissions may, as an alternative to operating the continuous monitoring system described in paragraph (a) of this section, install, certify, maintain, operate, and quality-assure a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) consisting of NO
X
and O
2
monitors. As an alternative, a CO
2
monitor may be used to adjust the measured NO
X
concentrations to 15 percent O
2
by either converting the CO
2
hourly averages to equivalent O
2
concentrations using Equation F-14a or F-14b in appendix F to part 75 of this chapter and making the adjustments to 15 percent O
2
, or by using the CO
2
readings directly to make the adjustments, as described in Method 20. If the option to use a CEMS is chosen, the CEMS shall be installed, certified, maintained and operated as follows:
(1) Each CEMS must be installed and certified according to PS 2 and 3 (for diluent) of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, except the 7-day calibration drift is based on unit operating days, not calendar days. Appendix F, Procedure 1 is not required. The relative accuracy test audit (RATA) of the NO
X
and diluent monitors may be performed individually or on a combined basis,
i.e.
, the relative accuracy tests of the CEMS may be performed either:
(i) On a ppm basis (for NO
X
) and a percent O
2
basis for oxygen; or
(ii) On a ppm at 15 percent O
2
basis; or
(iii) On a ppm basis (for NO
X
) and a percent CO
2
basis (for a CO
2
monitor that uses the procedures in Method 20 to correct the NO
X
data to 15 percent O
2
).
(2) As specified in § 60.13(e)(2), during each full unit operating hour, each monitor must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each 15-minute quadrant of the hour, to validate the hour. For partial unit operating hours, at least one valid data point must be obtained for each quadrant of the hour in which the unit operates. For unit operating hours in which required quality assurance and maintenance activities are performed on the CEMS, a minimum of two valid data points (one in each of two quadrants) are required to validate the hour.
(3) For purposes of identifying excess emissions, CEMS data must be reduced to hourly averages as specified in § 60.13(h).
(i) For each unit operating hour in which a valid hourly average, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, is obtained for both NO
X
and diluent, the data acquisition and handling system must calculate and record the hourly NO
X
emissions in the units of
the applicable NO
X
emission standard under § 60.332(a),
i.e.
, percent NO
X
by volume, dry basis, corrected to 15 percent O
2
and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard conditions (if required as given in § 60.335(b)(1)). For any hour in which the hourly average O
2
concentration exceeds 19.0 percent O
2
, a diluent cap value of 19.0 percent O
2
may be used in the emission calculations.
(ii) A worst case ISO correction factor may be calculated and applied using historical ambient data. For the purpose of this calculation, substitute the maximum humidity of ambient air (Ho), minimum ambient temperature (T
a
), and minimum combustor inlet absolute pressure (P
o
) into the ISO correction equation.
(iii) If the owner or operator has installed a NO
X
CEMS to meet the requirements of part 75 of this chapter, and is continuing to meet the ongoing requirements of part 75 of this chapter, the CEMS may be used to meet the requirements of this section, except that the missing data substitution methodology provided for at 40 CFR part 75, subpart D, is not required for purposes of identifying excess emissions. Instead, periods of missing CEMS data are to be reported as monitor downtime in the excess emissions and monitoring performance report required in § 60.7(c).
(c) For any turbine that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after October 3, 1977, but before July 8, 2004, and which does not use steam or water injection to control NO
X
emissions, the owner or operator may, but is not required to, for purposes of determining excess emissions, use a CEMS that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Also, if the owner or operator has previously submitted and received EPA, State, or local permitting authority approval of a procedure for monitoring compliance with the applicable NO
X
emission limit under § 60.332, that approved procedure may continue to be used.
(d) The owner or operator of any new turbine constructed after July 8, 2004, and which uses water or steam injection to control NO
X
emissions may elect to use either the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section for continuous water or steam to fuel ratio monitoring or may use a NO
X
CEMS installed, certified, operated, maintained, and quality-assured as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) The owner or operator of any new turbine that commences construction after July 8, 2004, and which does not use water or steam injection to control NO
X
emissions, may, but is not required to, elect to use a NO
X
CEMS installed, certified, operated, maintained, and quality-assured as described in paragraph (b) of this section. Other acceptable monitoring approaches include periodic testing approved by EPA or the State or local permitting authority or continuous parameter monitoring as described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(f) The owner or operator of a new turbine that commences construction after July 8, 2004, which does not use water or steam injection to control NO
X
emissions may, but is not required to, perform continuous parameter monitoring as follows:
(1) For a diffusion flame turbine without add-on selective catalytic reduction controls (SCR), the owner or operator shall define at least four parameters indicative of the unit's NO
X
formation characteristics and shall monitor these parameters continuously.
(2) For any lean premix stationary combustion turbine, the owner or operator shall continuously monitor the appropriate parameters to determine whether the unit is operating in low-NO
X
mode.
(3) For any turbine that uses SCR to reduce NO
X
emissions, the owner or operator shall continuously monitor appropriate parameters to verify the proper operation of the emission controls.
(4) For affected units that are also regulated under part 75 of this chapter, if the owner or operator elects to monitor NO
X
emission rate using the methodology in appendix E to part 75 of this chapter, or the low mass emissions methodology in § 75.19 of this chapter, the requirements of this paragraph (f) may be met by performing the parametric monitoring described in section
2.3 of appendix E or in § 75.19(c)(1)(iv)(H) of this chapter.
(g) The steam or water to fuel ratio or other parameters that are continuously monitored as described in paragraphs (a), (d) or (f) of this section shall be monitored during the performance test required under § 60.8, to establish acceptable values and ranges. The owner or operator may supplement the performance test data with engineering analyses, design specifications, manufacturer's recommendations and other relevant information to define the acceptable parametric ranges more precisely. The owner or operator shall develop and keep on-site a parameter monitoring plan which explains the procedures used to document proper operation of the NO
X
emission controls. The plan shall include the parameter(s) monitored and the acceptable range(s) of the parameter(s) as well as the basis for designating the parameter(s) and acceptable range(s). Any supplemental data such as engineering analyses, design specifications, manufacturer's recommendations and other relevant information shall be included in the monitoring plan. For affected units that are also subject to part 75 of this chapter and that use the low mass emissions methodology in § 75.19 of this chapter or the NO
X
emission measurement methodology in appendix E to part 75, the owner or operator may meet the requirements of this paragraph by developing and keeping on-site (or at a central location for unmanned facilities) a quality-assurance plan, as described in § 75.19 (e)(5) or in section 2.3 of appendix E and section 1.3.6 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
(h) The owner or operator of any stationary gas turbine subject to the provisions of this subpart:
(1) Shall monitor the total sulfur content of the fuel being fired in the turbine, except as provided in paragraph (h)(3) of this section. The sulfur content of the fuel must be determined using total sulfur methods described in § 60.335(b)(10). Alternatively, if the total sulfur content of the gaseous fuel during the most recent performance test was less than 0.4 weight percent (4000 ppmw), ASTM D4084-82, 94, D5504-01, D6228-98, or Gas Processors Association Standard 2377-86 (all of which are incorporated by reference-see § 60.17), which measure the major sulfur compounds may be used; and
(2) Shall monitor the nitrogen content of the fuel combusted in the turbine, if the owner or operator claims an allowance for fuel bound nitrogen (
i.e.
, if an F-value greater than zero is being or will be used by the owner or operator to calculate STD in § 60.332). The nitrogen content of the fuel shall be determined using methods described in § 60.335(b)(9) or an approved alternative.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the owner or operator may elect not to monitor the total sulfur content of the gaseous fuel combusted in the turbine, if the gaseous fuel is demonstrated to meet the definition of natural gas in § 60.331(u), regardless of whether an existing custom schedule approved by the administrator for subpart GG requires such monitoring. The owner or operator shall use one of the following sources of information to make the required demonstration:
(i) The gas quality characteristics in a current, valid purchase contract, tariff sheet or transportation contract for the gaseous fuel, specifying that the maximum total sulfur content of the fuel is 20.0 grains/100 scf or less; or
(ii) Representative fuel sampling data which show that the sulfur content of the gaseous fuel does not exceed 20 grains/100 scf. At a minimum, the amount of fuel sampling data specified in section 2.3.1.4 or 2.3.2.4 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter is required.
(4) For any turbine that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after October 3, 1977, but before July 8, 2004, and for which a custom fuel monitoring schedule has previously been approved, the owner or operator may, without submitting a special petition to the Administrator, continue monitoring on this schedule.
(i) The frequency of determining the sulfur and nitrogen content of the fuel shall be as follows:
(1)
Fuel oil.
For fuel oil, use one of the total sulfur sampling options and the associated sampling frequency described in sections 2.2.3, 2.2.4.1, 2.2.4.2, and 2.2.4.3 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter (
i.e.
, flow proportional
sampling, daily sampling, sampling from the unit's storage tank after each addition of fuel to the tank, or sampling each delivery prior to combining it with fuel oil already in the intended storage tank). If an emission allowance is being claimed for fuel-bound nitrogen, the nitrogen content of the oil shall be determined and recorded once per unit operating day.
(2)
Gaseous fuel.
Any applicable nitrogen content value of the gaseous fuel shall be determined and recorded once per unit operating day. For owners and operators that elect not to demonstrate sulfur content using options in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, and for which the fuel is supplied without intermediate bulk storage, the sulfur content value of the gaseous fuel shall be determined and recorded once per unit operating day.
(3)
Custom schedules.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (i)(2) of this section, operators or fuel vendors may develop custom schedules for determination of the total sulfur content of gaseous fuels, based on the design and operation of the affected facility and the characteristics of the fuel supply. Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) and (i)(3)(ii) of this section, custom schedules shall be substantiated with data and shall be approved by the Administrator before they can be used to comply with the standard in § 60.333.
(i) The two custom sulfur monitoring schedules set forth in paragraphs (i)(3)(i)(A) through (D) and in paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section are acceptable, without prior Administrative approval:
(A) The owner or operator shall obtain daily total sulfur content measurements for 30 consecutive unit operating days, using the applicable methods specified in this subpart. Based on the results of the 30 daily samples, the required frequency for subsequent monitoring of the fuel's total sulfur content shall be as specified in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(B), (C), or (D) of this section, as applicable.
(B) If none of the 30 daily measurements of the fuel's total sulfur content exceeds 0.4 weight percent (4000 ppmw), subsequent sulfur content monitoring may be performed at 12 month intervals. If any of the samples taken at 12-month intervals has a total sulfur content between 0.4 and 0.8 weight percent (4000 and 8000 ppmw), follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(C) of this section. If any measurement exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(D) of this section.
(C) If at least one of the 30 daily measurements of the fuel's total sulfur content is between 0.4 and 0.8 weight percent (4000 and 8000 ppmw), but none exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), then:
(
1
) Collect and analyze a sample every 30 days for three months. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(D) of this section. Otherwise, follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section.
(
2
) Begin monitoring at 6-month intervals for 12 months. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(D) of this section. Otherwise, follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(C)(
3
) of this section.
(
3
) Begin monitoring at 12-month intervals. If any sulfur content measurement exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), follow the procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i)(D) of this section. Otherwise, continue to monitor at this frequency.
(D) If a sulfur content measurement exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), immediately begin daily monitoring according to paragraph (i)(3)(i)(A) of this section. Daily monitoring shall continue until 30 consecutive daily samples, each having a sulfur content no greater than 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), are obtained. At that point, the applicable procedures of paragraph (i)(3)(i)(B) or (C) of this section shall be followed.
(ii) The owner or operator may use the data collected from the 720-hour sulfur sampling demonstration described in section 2.3.6 of appendix D to part 75 of this chapter to determine a custom sulfur sampling schedule, as follows:
(A) If the maximum fuel sulfur content obtained from the 720 hourly samples does not exceed 20 grains/100 scf
(
i.e.
, the maximum total sulfur content of natural gas as defined in § 60.331(u)), no additional monitoring of the sulfur content of the gas is required, for the purposes of this subpart.
(B) If the maximum fuel sulfur content obtained from any of the 720 hourly samples exceeds 20 grains/100 scf, but none of the sulfur content values (when converted to weight percent sulfur) exceeds 0.4 weight percent (4000 ppmw), then the minimum required sampling frequency shall be one sample at 12 month intervals.
(C) If any sample result exceeds 0.4 weight percent sulfur (4000 ppmw), but none exceeds 0.8 weight percent sulfur (8000 ppmw), follow the provisions of paragraph (i)(3)(i)(C) of this section.
(D) If the sulfur content of any of the 720 hourly samples exceeds 0.8 weight percent (8000 ppmw), follow the provisions of paragraph (i)(3)(i)(D) of this section.
(j) For each affected unit that elects to continuously monitor parameters or emissions, or to periodically determine the fuel sulfur content or fuel nitrogen content under this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit reports of excess emissions and monitor downtime, in accordance with § 60.7(c). Excess emissions shall be reported for all periods of unit operation, including startup, shutdown and malfunction. For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions and monitor downtime that shall be reported are defined as follows:
(1) Nitrogen oxides.
(i) For turbines using water or steam to fuel ratio monitoring:
(A) An excess emission shall be any unit operating hour for which the average steam or water to fuel ratio, as measured by the continuous monitoring system, falls below the acceptable steam or water to fuel ratio needed to demonstrate compliance with § 60.332, as established during the performance test required in § 60.8. Any unit operating hour in which no water or steam is injected into the turbine shall also be considered an excess emission.
(B) A period of monitor downtime shall be any unit operating hour in which water or steam is injected into the turbine, but the essential parametric data needed to determine the steam or water to fuel ratio are unavailable or invalid.
(C) Each report shall include the average steam or water to fuel ratio, average fuel consumption, ambient conditions (temperature, pressure, and humidity), gas turbine load, and (if applicable) the nitrogen content of the fuel during each excess emission. You do not have to report ambient conditions if you opt to use the worst case ISO correction factor as specified in § 60.334(b)(3)(ii), or if you are not using the ISO correction equation under the provisions of § 60.335(b)(1).
(ii) If the owner or operator elects to take an emission allowance for fuel bound nitrogen, then excess emissions and periods of monitor downtime are as described in paragraphs (j)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) An excess emission shall be the period of time during which the fuel-bound nitrogen (N) is greater than the value measured during the performance test required in § 60.8 and used to determine the allowance. The excess emission begins on the date and hour of the sample which shows that N is greater than the performance test value, and ends with the date and hour of a subsequent sample which shows a fuel nitrogen content less than or equal to the performance test value.
(B) A period of monitor downtime begins when a required sample is not taken by its due date. A period of monitor downtime also begins on the date and hour that a required sample is taken, if invalid results are obtained. The period of monitor downtime ends on the date and hour of the next valid sample.
(iii) For turbines using NO
X
and diluent CEMS:
(A) An hour of excess emissions shall be any unit operating hour in which the 4-hour rolling average NO
X
concentration exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 60.332(a)(1) or (2). For the purposes of this subpart, a “4-hour rolling average NO
X
concentration” is the arithmetic average of the average NO
X
concentration measured by the CEMS for a given hour (corrected to 15 percent O
2
and, if required under § 60.335(b)(1), to ISO standard conditions) and the three unit operating
hour average NO
X
concentrations immediately preceding that unit operating hour.
(B) A period of monitor downtime shall be any unit operating hour in which sufficient data are not obtained to validate the hour, for either NO
X
concentration or diluent (or both).
(C) Each report shall include the ambient conditions (temperature, pressure, and humidity) at the time of the excess emission period and (if the owner or operator has claimed an emission allowance for fuel bound nitrogen) the nitrogen content of the fuel during the period of excess emissions. You do not have to report ambient conditions if you opt to use the worst case ISO correction factor as specified in § 60.334(b)(3)(ii), or if you are not using the ISO correction equation under the provisions of § 60.335(b)(1).
(iv) For owners or operators that elect, under paragraph (f) of this section, to monitor combustion parameters or parameters that document proper operation of the NO
X
emission controls:
(A) An excess emission shall be a 4-hour rolling unit operating hour average in which any monitored parameter does not achieve the target value or is outside the acceptable range defined in the parameter monitoring plan for the unit.
(B) A period of monitor downtime shall be a unit operating hour in which any of the required parametric data are either not recorded or are invalid.
(2) Sulfur dioxide. If the owner or operator is required to monitor the sulfur content of the fuel under paragraph (h) of this section:
(i) For samples of gaseous fuel and for oil samples obtained using daily sampling, flow proportional sampling, or sampling from the unit's storage tank, an excess emission occurs each unit operating hour included in the period beginning on the date and hour of any sample for which the sulfur content of the fuel being fired in the gas turbine exceeds 0.8 weight percent and ending on the date and hour that a subsequent sample is taken that demonstrates compliance with the sulfur limit.
(ii) If the option to sample each delivery of fuel oil has been selected, the owner or operator shall immediately switch to one of the other oil sampling options (
i.e.
, daily sampling, flow proportional sampling, or sampling from the unit's storage tank) if the sulfur content of a delivery exceeds 0.8 weight percent. The owner or operator shall continue to use one of the other sampling options until all of the oil from the delivery has been combusted, and shall evaluate excess emissions according to paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section. When all of the fuel from the delivery has been burned, the owner or operator may resume using the as-delivered sampling option.
(iii) A period of monitor downtime begins when a required sample is not taken by its due date. A period of monitor downtime also begins on the date and hour of a required sample, if invalid results are obtained. The period of monitor downtime shall include only unit operating hours, and ends on the date and hour of the next valid sample.
(3)
Ice fog.
Each period during which an exemption provided in § 60.332(f) is in effect shall be reported in writing to the Administrator quarterly. For each period the ambient conditions existing during the period, the date and time the air pollution control system was deactivated, and the date and time the air pollution control system was reactivated shall be reported. All quarterly reports shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar quarter.
(4)
Emergency fuel.
Each period during which an exemption provided in § 60.332(k) is in effect shall be included in the report required in § 60.7(c). For each period, the type, reasons, and duration of the firing of the emergency fuel shall be reported.
(5) All reports required under § 60.7(c) shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each 6-month period.
[44 FR 52798, Sept. 10, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 3770, Jan. 27, 1982; 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000; 69 FR 41360, July 8, 2004; 71 FR 9457, Feb. 24, 2006]
§ 60.335
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The owner or operator shall conduct the performance tests required in § 60.8, using either
(1) EPA Method 20,
(2) ASTM D6522-00 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), or
(3) EPA Method 7E and either EPA Method 3 or 3A in appendix A to this part, to determine NO
X
and diluent concentration.
(4) Sampling traverse points are to be selected following Method 20 or Method 1, (non-particulate procedures) and sampled for equal time intervals. The sampling shall be performed with a traversing single-hole probe or, if feasible, with a stationary multi-hole probe that samples each of the points sequentially. Alternatively, a multi-hole probe designed and documented to sample equal volumes from each hole may be used to sample simultaneously at the required points.
(5) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the owner or operator may test at few points than are specified in Method 1 or Method 20 if the following conditions are met:
(i) You may perform a stratification test for NO
X
and diluent pursuant to
(A) [Reserved]
(B) The procedures specified in section 6.5.6.1(a) through (e) appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.
(ii) Once the stratification sampling is completed, the owner or operator may use the following alternative sample point selection criteria for the performance test:
(A) If each of the individual traverse point NO
X
concentrations, normalized to 15 percent O
2
, is within 10 percent of the mean normalized concentration for all traverse points, then you may use 3 points (located either 16.7, 50.0, and 83.3 percent of the way across the stack or duct, or, for circular stacks or ducts greater than 2.4 meters (7.8 feet) in diameter, at 0.4, 1.2, and 2.0 meters from the wall). The 3 points shall be located along the measurement line that exhibited the highest average normalized NO
X
concentration during the stratification test; or
(B) If each of the individual traverse point NO
X
concentrations, normalized to 15 percent O
2
, is within 5 percent of the mean normalized concentration for all traverse points, then you may sample at a single point, located at least 1 meter from the stack wall or at the stack centroid.
(6) Other acceptable alternative reference methods and procedures are given in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the applicable nitrogen oxides emission limitation in § 60.332 and shall meet the performance test requirements of § 60.8 as follows:
(1) For each run of the performance test, the mean nitrogen oxides emission concentration (NO
Xo
) corrected to 15 percent O
2
shall be corrected to ISO standard conditions using the following equation. Notwithstanding this requirement, use of the ISO correction equation is optional for: Lean premix stationary combustion turbines; units used in association with heat recovery steam generators (HRSG) equipped with duct burners; and units equipped with add-on emission control devices:
NO
X
= (NO
Xo
)(P
r
/P
o
)
0.5
e
19 (Ho−0.00633)
(288 °K/T
a
)
1.53
Where:
NO
X
= emission concentration of NO
X
at 15 percent O
2
and ISO standard ambient conditions, ppm by volume, dry basis,
NO
Xo
= mean observed NO
X
concentration, ppm by volume, dry basis, at 15 percent O
2
,
P
r
= reference combustor inlet absolute pressure at 101.3 kilopascals ambient pressure. Alternatively, you may use 760 mm Hg (29.92 in Hg),
P
o
= observed combustor inlet absolute pressure at test, mm Hg. Alternatively, you may use the barometric pressure for the date of the test,
H
o
= observed humidity of ambient air, g H
2
O/g air,
e = transcendental constant, 2.718, and
T
a
= ambient temperature, °K.
(2) The 3-run performance test required by § 60.8 must be performed within 5 percent at 30, 50, 75, and 90-to-100 percent of peak load or at four evenly-spaced load points in the normal operating range of the gas turbine, including the minimum point in the operating range and 90-to-100 percent of peak load, or at the highest achievable load point if 90-to-100 percent of peak load cannot be physically achieved in practice. If the turbine combusts both oil and gas as primary or backup fuels, separate performance testing is required for each fuel. Notwithstanding these requirements, performance testing is not required for any emergency fuel (as defined in § 60.331).
(3) For a combined cycle turbine system with supplemental heat (duct burner), the owner or operator may elect to measure the turbine NO
X
emissions after the duct burner rather than directly after the turbine. If the owner or operator elects to use this alternative sampling location, the applicable NO
X
emission limit in § 60.332 for the combustion turbine must still be met.
(4) If water or steam injection is used to control NO
X
with no additional post-combustion NO
X
control and the owner or operator chooses to monitor the steam or water to fuel ratio in accordance with § 60.334(a), then that monitoring system must be operated concurrently with each EPA Method 20, ASTM D6522-00 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), or EPA Method 7E run and shall be used to determine the fuel consumption and the steam or water to fuel ratio necessary to comply with the applicable § 60.332 NO
X
emission limit.
(5) If the owner operator elects to claim an emission allowance for fuel bound nitrogen as described in § 60.332, then concurrently with each reference method run, a representative sample of the fuel used shall be collected and analyzed, following the applicable procedures described in § 60.335(b)(9). These data shall be used to determine the maximum fuel nitrogen content for which the established water (or steam) to fuel ratio will be valid.
(6) If the owner or operator elects to install a CEMS, the performance evaluation of the CEMS may either be conducted separately (as described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section) or as part of the initial performance test of the affected unit.
(7) If the owner or operator elects to install and certify a NO
X
CEMS under § 60.334(e), then the initial performance test required under § 60.8 may be done in the following alternative manner:
(i) Perform a minimum of 9 reference method runs, with a minimum time per run of 21 minutes, at a single load level, between 90 and 100 percent of peak (or the highest physically achievable) load.
(ii) Use the test data both to demonstrate compliance with the applicable NO
X
emission limit under § 60.332 and to provide the required reference method data for the RATA of the CEMS described under § 60.334(b).
(iii) The requirement to test at three additional load levels is waived.
(8) If the owner or operator elects under § 60.334(f) to monitor combustion parameters or parameters indicative of proper operation of NO
X
emission controls, the appropriate parameters shall be continuously monitored and recorded during each run of the initial performance test, to establish acceptable operating ranges, for purposes of the parameter monitoring plan for the affected unit, as specified in § 60.334(g).
(9) To determine the fuel bound nitrogen content of fuel being fired (if an emission allowance is claimed for fuel bound nitrogen), the owner or operator may use equipment and procedures meeting the requirements of:
(i) For liquid fuels, ASTM D2597-94 (Reapproved 1999), D6366-99, D4629-02, D5762-02 (all of which are incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17); or
(ii) For gaseous fuels, shall use analytical methods and procedures that are accurate to within 5 percent of the instrument range and are approved by the Administrator.
(10) If the owner or operator is required under § 60.334(i)(1) or (3) to periodically determine the sulfur content of the fuel combusted in the turbine, a minimum of three fuel samples shall be collected during the performance test. Analyze the samples for the total sulfur content of the fuel using:
(i) For liquid fuels, ASTM D129-00, D2622-98, D4294-02, D1266-98, D5453-00 or D1552-01 (all of which are incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17); or
(ii) For gaseous fuels, ASTM D1072-80, 90 (Reapproved 1994); D3246-81, 92, 96; D4468-85 (Reapproved 2000); or D6667-01 (all of which are incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). The applicable ranges of some ASTM methods mentioned above are not adequate to measure the levels of sulfur in some fuel gases. Dilution of samples before analysis (with verification of the dilution ratio) may be used, subject to the prior approval of the Administrator.
(11) The fuel analyses required under paragraphs (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this section may be performed by the owner or operator, a service contractor retained
by the owner or operator, the fuel vendor, or any other qualified agency.
(c) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:
(1) Instead of using the equation in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, manufacturers may develop ambient condition correction factors to adjust the nitrogen oxides emission level measured by the performance test as provided in § 60.8 to ISO standard day conditions.
[69 FR 41363, July 8, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 9458, Feb. 24, 2006; 79 FR 11250, Feb. 27, 2014]

# Subpart HH—Standards of Performance for Lime Manufacturing Plants

# Source:
49 FR 18080, Apr. 26, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.340
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to each rotary lime kiln used in the manufacture of lime.
(b) The provisions of this subpart are not applicable to facilities used in the manufacture of lime at kraft pulp mills.
(c) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after May 3, 1977, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 60.341
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the same meaning given them in the Act and in the General Provisions.
(a)
Lime manufacturing plant
means any plant which uses a rotary lime kiln to produce lime product from limestone by calcination.
(b)
Lime product
means the product of the calcination process including, but not limited to, calcitic lime, dolomitic lime, and dead-burned dolomite.
(c)
Positive-pressure fabric filter
means a fabric filter with the fans on the upstream side of the filter bags.
(d)
Rotary lime kiln
means a unit with an inclined rotating drum that is used to produce a lime product from limestone by calcination.
(e)
Stone feed
means limestone feedstock and millscale or other iron oxide additives that become part of the product.
§ 60.342
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any rotary lime kiln any gases which:
(1) Contain particulate matter in excess of 0.30 kilogram per megagram (0.60 lb/ton) of stone feed.
(2) Exhibit greater than 15 percent opacity when exiting from a dry emission control device.
§ 60.343
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) The owner or operator of a facility that is subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, to monitor and record the opacity of a representative portion of the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any rotary lime kiln. The span of this system shall be set at 40 percent opacity.
(b) The owner or operator of any rotary lime kiln having a control device with a multiple stack exhaust or a roof monitor may, in lieu of the continuous opacity monitoring requirement of § 60.343(a), monitor visible emissions at least once per day of operation by using a certified visible emissions observer who, for each site where visible emissions are observed, will perform three Method 9 tests and record the results. Visible emission observations shall occur during normal operation of the rotary lime kiln at least once per day. For at least three 6-minute periods, the opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) where visible emissions are observed, and the corresponding feed rate of the kiln shall also be recorded. Records shall be maintained of any 6-minute average that is in excess
of the emissions specified in § 60.342(a) of this subpart.
(c) The owner or operator of any rotary lime kiln using a wet scrubbing emission control device subject to the provisions of this subpart shall not be required to monitor the opacity of the gases discharged as required in paragraph (a) of this section, but shall install, calibrate, maintain, operate, and record the resultant information from the following continuous monitoring devices:
(1) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss of the gas stream through the scrubber. The monitoring device must be accurate within ±250 pascals (one inch of water).
(2) A monitoring device for continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid supply pressure to the control device. The monitoring device must be accurate within ±5 percent of the design scrubbing liquid supply pressure.
(d) For the purpose of conducting a performance test under § 60.8, the owner or operator of any lime manufacturing plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device for measuring the mass rate of stone feed to any affected rotary lime kiln. The measuring device used must be accurate to within ±5 percent of the mass rate over its operating range.
(e) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as all 6-minute periods during which the average opacity of the visible emissions from any lime kiln subject to paragraph (a) of this subpart is greater than 15 percent or, in the case of wet scrubbers, any period in which the scrubber pressure drop or scrubbing liquid supply pressure is greater than 30 percent below that established during the performance test. If visible emission observations are made according to paragraph (b) of this section, reports of excess emissions shall be submitted semiannually.
[49 FR 18080, Apr. 26, 1984, as amended at 52 FR 4773, Feb. 17, 1987; 54 FR 6675, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.344
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.342(a) as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = (c
s
Q
sd
)/PK)
where:
E = emission rate of particulate matter, kg/Mg (1b/ton) of stone feed.
c
s
= concentration of particulate matter, g/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = stone feed rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 g/kg (7000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 5 shall be used at negative-pressure fabric filters and other types of control devices and Method 5D shall be used at positive-pressure fabric filters to determine the particulate matter concentration (c
s
) and the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf).
(3) The monitoring device of § 60.343(d) shall be used to determine the stone feed rate (P) for each run.
(4) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(c) During the particulate matter run, the owner or operator shall use the monitoring devices in § 60.343(c)(1) and (2) to determine the average pressure loss of the gas stream through the scrubber and the average scrubbing liquid supply pressure.
[54 FR 6675, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart KK—Standards of Performance for Lead-Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 14, 1980, and On or Before February 23, 2022

# Source:
47 FR 16573, Apr. 16, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.370
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the affected facilities listed in paragraph (b) of this section at any lead-acid battery manufacturing plant that produces or has the design capacity to produce in one day (24 hours) batteries containing an amount of lead equal to or greater than 5.9 Mg (6.5 tons).
(b) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities used in the manufacture of lead-acid storage batteries:
(1) Grid casting facility.
(2) Paste mixing facility.
(3) Three-process operation facility.
(4) Lead oxide manufacturing facility.
(5) Lead reclamation facility.
(6) Other lead-emitting operations.
(c) Any facility under paragraph (b) of this section the construction or modification of which is commenced after January 14, 1980, and on or before February 23, 2022, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[47 FR 16573, Apr. 16, 1982, as amended at 88 FR 11583, Feb. 23, 2023]
§ 60.371
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Grid casting facility
means the facility which includes all lead melting pots and machines used for casting the grid used in battery manufacturing.
(b)
Lead-acid battery manufacturing plant
means any plant that produces a storage battery using lead and lead compounds for the plates and sulfuric acid for the electrolyte.
(c)
Lead oxide manufacturing facility
means a facility that produces lead oxide from lead, including product recovery.
(d)
Lead reclamation facility
means the facility that remelts lead scrap and casts it into lead ingots for use in the battery manufacturing process, and which is not a furnace affected under subpart L of this part.
(e)
Other lead-emitting operation
means any lead-acid battery manufacturing plant operation from which lead emissions are collected and ducted to the atmosphere and which is not part of a grid casting, lead oxide manufacturing, lead reclamation, paste mixing, or three-process operation facility, or a furnace affected under subpart L of this part.
(f)
Paste mixing facility
means the facility including lead oxide storage, conveying, weighing, metering, and charging operations; paste blending, handling, and cooling operations; and plate pasting, takeoff, cooling, and drying operations.
(g)
Three-process operation facility
means the facility including those processes involved with plate stacking, burning or strap casting, and assembly of elements into the battery case.
§ 60.372
Standards for lead.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From any grid casting facility any gases that contain lead in excess of 0.40 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000175 gr/dscf).
(2) From any paste mixing facility any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).
(3) From any three-process operation facility any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).
(4) From any lead oxide manufacturing facility any gases that contain in excess of 5.0 milligrams of lead per kilogram of lead feed (0.010 lb/ton).
(5) From any lead reclamation facility any gases that contain in excess of 4.50 milligrams of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.00197 gr/dscf).
(6) From any other lead-emitting operation any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).
(7) From any affected facility other than a lead reclamation facility any gases with greater than 0 percent opacity (measured according to Method 9 and rounded to the nearest whole percentage).
(8) From any lead reclamation facility any gases with greater than 5 percent opacity (measured according to Method 9 and rounded to the nearest whole percentage).
(b) When two or more facilities at the same plant (except the lead oxide manufacturing facility) are ducted to a common control device, an equivalent standard for the total exhaust from the commonly controlled facilities shall be determined as follows:
EC01JN92.012
Where:
S
e
= is the equivalent standard for the total exhaust stream.
S
a
= is the actual standard for each exhaust stream ducted to the control device.
N = is the total number of exhaust streams ducted to the control device.
Q
sda
= is the dry standard volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas stream from each facility ducted to the control device.
Q
sdT
= is the total dry standard volumetric flow rate of all effluent gas streams ducted to the control device.
[47 FR 16573, Apr. 16, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.373
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
The owner or operator of any lead-acid battery manufacturing facility subject to the provisions of this subpart and controlled by a scrubbing system(s) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device(s) that measures and records the pressure drop across the scrubbing system(s) at least once every 15 minutes. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
§ 60.374
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the lead standards in § 60.372, except § 60.372(a)(4), as follows:
(1) Method 12 or Method 29 shall be used to determine the lead concentration (C
Pb
) and, if applicable, the volumetric flow rate (Q
sda
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(2) When different operations in a three-process operation facility are ducted to separate control devices, the lead emission concentration (C) from the facility shall be determined as follows:
ER27FE14.006
Where:
C = concentration of lead emissions for the entire facility, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
C
a
= concentration of lead emissions from facility “a”, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sda
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from facility “a”, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
N = total number of control devices to which separate operations in the facility are ducted.
(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity. The opacity numbers shall be rounded off to the nearest whole percentage.
(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the lead standard in § 60.372(a)(4) as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) from lead oxide manufacturing facility shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
EC16NO91.023
where:
E = emission rate of lead, mg/kg (lb/ton) of lead charged.
C
Pbi
= concentration of lead from emission point “i,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from emission point “i,” dscm/hr (sdcf/hr).
M = number of emission points in the affected facility.
P = lead feed rate to the facility, kg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1.0 mg/mg (7000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 12 or Method 29 shall be used to determine the lead concentration (C
Pb
) and the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(3) The average lead feed rate (P) shall be determined for each run using the following equation:
P = N W/Θ
where:
N = number of lead pigs (ingots) charged.
W = average mass of a pig, kg (ton).
Θ = duration of run, hr.
[54 FR 6675, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000; 79 FR 11250, Feb. 27, 2014]

# Subpart KKa—Standards of Performance for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Plants for Which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After February 23, 2022

# Source:
88 FR 11583, Feb. 23, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.370a
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the affected facilities listed in paragraph (b) of this section at any lead acid battery manufacturing plant that produces or has the design capacity to produce in one day (24 hours) batteries containing an amount of lead equal to or greater than 5.9 Mg (6.5 tons).
(b) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities used in the manufacture of lead acid storage batteries:
(1) Grid casting facility.
(2) Paste mixing facility.
(3) Three-process operation facility.
(4) Lead oxide manufacturing facility.
(5) Lead reclamation facility.
(6) Other lead-emitting operations.
(c) Any facility under paragraph (b) of this section for which the construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced after February 23, 2022, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 60.371a
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the definitions in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section apply. All terms not defined in this subpart have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (baghouse) in order to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other
effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
(b)
Lead acid battery manufacturing plant
means any plant that produces a storage battery using lead and lead compounds for the plates and sulfuric acid for the electrolyte.
(c)
Grid casting facility
means the facility which includes all lead melting pots that remelt scrap from onsite lead acid battery manufacturing processes, and machines used for casting the grid used in lead acid batteries.
(d)
Lead oxide manufacturing facility
means a facility that produces lead oxide from lead for use in lead acid battery manufacturing, including lead oxide production and product recovery operations. Local exhaust ventilation or building ventilation exhausts serving lead oxide production areas are not part of the lead oxide manufacturing facility.
(e)
Lead reclamation facility
means the facility that casts remelted lead scrap generated by onsite lead acid battery manufacturing processes into lead ingots for use in the battery manufacturing process, and which is not a furnace affected under subpart L of this part. Lead scrap remelting processes that are used directly (not cast into an ingot first) in a grid casting facility or a three-process operation facility are parts of those facilities and are not part of a lead reclamation facility.
(f)
Other lead-emitting operation
means any lead acid battery manufacturing plant operation from which lead emissions are collected and ducted to the atmosphere and which is not part of a grid casting, lead oxide manufacturing, lead reclamation, paste mixing, or three-process operation facility, or a furnace affected under subpart L of this part. These operations also include local exhaust ventilation or building ventilation exhausts serving lead oxide production areas.
(g)
Paste mixing facility
means the facility including lead oxide storage, conveying, weighing, metering, and charging operations; paste blending, handling, and cooling operations; and plate pasting, takeoff, cooling, and drying operations.
(h)
Three-process operation facility
means the facility including those processes involved with plate stacking, burning or strap casting, and assembly of elements into the battery case.
(i)
Total enclosure
means a containment building that is completely enclosed with a floor, walls, and a roof to prevent exposure to the elements and that has limited openings to allow access and egress for people and vehicles.
§ 60.372a
Standards for lead.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart may cause the emissions listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section to be discharged into the atmosphere. The emission limitations and opacity limitations listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction. As provided in § 60.11(f), this paragraph (a) supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction in the general provisions in subpart A of this part. You must also comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(1) From any grid casting facility, any gases that contain lead in excess of 0.08 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000035 gr/dscf).
(2) From any paste mixing facility, any gases that contain in excess of 0.10 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.0000437 gr/dscf) or emit no more than 0.9 gram of lead per hour (0.002 lbs/hr) total from all paste mixing sources. If a facility is complying with the 0.9 gram of lead per hour, you must sum the emission rate from all the paste mixing sources.
(3) From any three-process operation facility, any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).
(4) From any lead oxide manufacturing facility, any gases that contain in excess of 5.0 milligrams of lead per kilogram of lead feed (0.010 lb/ton).
(5) From any lead reclamation facility, any gases that contain in excess of 0.45 milligrams of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000197 gr/dscf).
(6) From any other lead-emitting operation, any gases that contain in excess of 1.00 milligram of lead per dry standard cubic meter of exhaust (0.000437 gr/dscf).
(7) From any affected facility other than a lead reclamation facility, any gases with greater than 0 percent opacity (measured according to EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part and rounded to the nearest whole percentage or measured according to EPA Method 22 of appendix A to this part).
(8) From any lead reclamation facility, any gases with greater than 5 percent opacity (measured according to EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part and rounded to the nearest whole percentage).
(b) When two or more facilities at the same plant (except the lead oxide manufacturing facility) are ducted to a common control device, an equivalent standard for the total exhaust from the commonly controlled facilities must be determined using equation 1 to this paragraph (b) as follows:
ER23FE23.000
Where:
S
e
= is the equivalent standard for the total exhaust stream, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
S
a
= is the actual standard for each exhaust stream ducted to the control device, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
N = is the total number of exhaust streams ducted to the control device.
Q
sda
= is the dry standard volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas stream from each facility ducted to the control device, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
Q
sdT
= is the total dry standard volumetric flow rate of all effluent gas streams ducted to the control device, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
(c) The owner or operator must prepare, and at all times operate according to, a fugitive dust mitigation plan that describes in detail the measures that will be put in place and implemented to control fugitive dust emissions in the lead oxide unloading and storage areas. You must prepare a fugitive dust mitigation plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must submit the fugitive dust mitigation plan to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval when initially developed and any time changes are made.
(2) The fugitive dust mitigation plan must at a minimum include the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Lead oxide unloading and storage areas.
Surfaces used for vehicular material transfer activity must be cleaned at least once per month, by wet wash or a vacuum equipped with a filter rated by the manufacturer to achieve 99.97 percent capture efficiency for 0.3 micron particles in a manner that does not generate fugitive lead dust, except when sand or a similar material has been spread on the area to provide traction on ice or snow.
(ii)
Spills in lead oxide unloading and storage areas.
For any leak or spill that occurs during the unloading and storage process, complete washing or vacuuming the area to remove all spilled or leaked lead bearing material within 2 hours of the leak or spill occurrence.
(iii)
Materials storage.
Dust forming materials (that contain lead or lead compounds) must be stored in sealed, leak-proof containers or in a total enclosure.
(iv)
Records.
The fugitive dust mitigation plan must specify that records be maintained of all cleaning performed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
§ 60.373a
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any lead acid battery manufacturing facility
subject to the provisions of this subpart and controlled by a scrubbing system(s) must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device(s) that measures and records the liquid flow rate and pressure drop across the scrubbing system(s) at least once every 15 minutes. The monitoring device must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range. The operating liquid flow rate must be maintained within ±10 percent of the average liquid flowrate during the most recent performance test. If a liquid flow rate or pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges as determined during the most recent performance test, you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must also record the corrective actions taken. You must submit an excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and summary report required under § 60.375a(c).
(b) Emissions points controlled by a fabric filter without a secondary filter must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section and either paragraph (b)(3) or (4) of this section. New lead acid battery plants with emission points controlled by a fabric filter without a secondary filter must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Fabric filters equipped with a high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter or other secondary filter must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (6) of this section.
(1) You must perform quarterly inspections and maintenance to ensure proper performance of each fabric filter. This includes inspection of structural and filter integrity.
(2) If it is not possible for you to take the corrective actions specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) or (iv) of this section for a process or fabric filter control device, you must keep at least one replacement fabric filter onsite at all times for that process or fabric filter control device. The characteristics of the replacement filters must be the same as the current fabric filters in use or have characteristics that would achieve equal or greater emission reductions.
(3) Install, maintain, and operate a pressure drop monitoring device to measure the differential pressure drop across the fabric filter during all times when the process is operating. The pressure drop must be recorded at least twice per day (at least 8 hours apart) if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions from the facility are greater than 50 percent of the applicable lead emissions limit in § 60.372a(a)(1) through (6). The pressure drop must be recorded at least once per day if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are less than or equal to 50 percent of the applicable lead emissions limit in § 60.372a(a)(1) through (6). If a pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges as specified by the manufacturer, you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required under § 60.375a(c). You must also record the corrective actions taken and verify pressure drop is within normal operational range. These corrective actions may include but not be limited to those provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Inspecting the filter and filter housing for air leaks and torn or broken filters.
(ii) Replacing defective filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(iii) Sealing off a defective control device by routing air to other control devices.
(iv) Shutting down the process producing the lead emissions.
(4) Conduct a visible emissions observation using EPA Method 9 (6 minutes) or EPA Method 22 (5 minutes) of appendix A to this part while the process is in operation to verify that no visible emissions are occurring at the discharge point to the atmosphere from any emissions source subject to the requirements of § 60.372a(a) or (b). The visible emissions observation must be conducted at least twice daily (at least 6 hours apart) if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are greater than 50 percent of the applicable lead emissions limit
in § 60.372a(a)(1) through (6). The visible emissions observation must be conducted at least once per day if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are less than or equal to 50 percent of the applicable lead emissions limit in § 60.372a(a)(1) through (6). If visible emissions are detected, you must record the incident and submit this information in an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required under § 60.375a(c) and take immediate corrective action. You must also record the corrective actions taken. These corrective actions may include, but are not limited to, those provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(5) If the lead acid battery manufacturing plant was constructed after February 23, 2022, and have emissions points controlled by a fabric filter, you must install and operate a bag leak detection system that meets the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section. For any other affected facility listed in § 60.370a(b) that was constructed, modified, or reconstructed after February 23, 2022, that operates a bag leak detection system, the bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section. Emission points controlled by a fabric filter that is equipped with, and monitored with, a bag leak detection system meeting the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section may have the inspections required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section performed semiannually.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter as lead emissions at concentrations at or below the values in § 60.372a(a), as applicable to the process for which the fabric filter is used to control emissions. Where the fabric filter is used as a control device for more than one process, the lowest applicable value in § 60.372a(a) must be used.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings.
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will alarm when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level.
(iv) You must install and operate the bag leak detection system in a manner consistent with the guidance provided in “Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS) Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance” (EPA-454/R-98-015) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) and the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations for installation, operation, and adjustment of the system.
(v) The initial adjustment of the system must, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.
(vi) Following initial adjustment, you must not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in the approved standard operating procedures manual required under paragraph (b)(2)(ix) of this section. You cannot increase the sensitivity by more than 100 percent or decrease the sensitivity by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete fabric filter inspection that demonstrates that the fabric filter is in good operating condition.
(vii) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, you must install the bag leak detector downstream of the fabric filter.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(ix) You must develop a standard operating procedures manual for the bag leak detection system that includes procedures for making system adjustments and a corrective action plan, which specifies the procedures to be followed in the case of a bag leak detection system alarm. The corrective action plan must include, at a minimum, the procedures that you will use to determine and record the time and
cause of the alarm as well as the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(ix)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The procedures used to determine the cause of the alarm must be initiated within 30 minutes of the alarm.
(B) The cause of the alarm must be alleviated by taking the necessary corrective action(s) that may include, but not be limited to, those listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(ix)(B)(
1
) through (
6
) of this section.
(
1
) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken filter elements, or any other malfunction that may cause an increase in emissions.
(
2
) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.
(
3
) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(
4
) Sealing off defective baghouse compartment.
(
5
) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.
(
6
) Shutting down the process producing the lead emissions.
(6) Emissions points controlled by a fabric filter equipped with a secondary filter, such as a HEPA filter, are exempt from the requirement in paragraph (b)(5) of this section to be equipped with a bag leak detection system. You must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section and either paragraph (b)(6)(ii) or (iii) of this section.
(i) If it is not possible for you to take the corrective actions specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) or (iv) of this section for a process or fabric filter control device, you must keep at least one replacement primary fabric filter and one replacement secondary filter onsite at all times for that process or fabric filter control device. The characteristics of the replacement filters must be the same as the current fabric filters in use or have characteristics that would achieve equal or greater emission reductions.
(ii) You must perform the pressure drop monitoring requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. You may perform these requirements once per week rather than once or twice daily.
(iii) You must perform the visible emissions observation requirements in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. You may perform these requirements once per week rather than once or twice daily.
§ 60.374a
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator must use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A to this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) After the initial performance test required in § 60.8(a), you must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the lead and opacity standards in § 60.372a. Performance testing must be conducted for each affected source subject to lead and opacity standards in § 60.372a, that has not had a performance test within the last 5 years, except as described in paragraph (c) of this section. Thereafter, subsequent performance tests for each affected source must be completed no less frequently than every 5 years from the date the emissions source was last tested.
(c) In lieu of conducting subsequent performance tests for each affected source, you may elect to group similar affected sources together and conduct subsequent performance tests on one representative affected source within each group of similar affected sources. The determination of whether affected sources are similar must meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If you decide to test representative affected sources, you must prepare and submit a testing plan as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(1) If you elect to test representative affected sources, the affected sources that are grouped together must be of the same process type (
e.g.,
grid casting, paste mixing, three-process operations) and also have the same type of air pollution control device (
e.g.,
fabric filters). You cannot group affected sources from different process types or with different air pollution control device types together for the purposes of this section.
(2) The results of the performance test conducted for the affected source selected as representative of a group of similar affected sources will represent the results for each affected source within the group. In the performance test report, all affected sources in the group will need to be listed.
(3) If you plan to conduct subsequent performance tests on representative emission units, you must submit a test plan. This test plan must be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval no later than 90 days prior to the first scheduled performance test. The test plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) A list of all emission units. This list must clearly identify all emission units that have been grouped together as similar emission units. Within each group of emission units, you must identify the emission unit that will be the representative unit for that group and subject to performance testing.
(ii) A list of the process type and type of air pollution control device on each emission unit.
(iii) The date of last test for each emission unit and a schedule indicating when you will conduct performance tests for each emission unit within the representative groups.
(4) If you conduct subsequent performance tests on representative emission units, the unit with the oldest test must be tested first, and each subsequent performance test must be performed for a different unit until all units in the group have been tested. The order of testing for each subsequent test must proceed such that the unit in the group with the least recent performance test is the next unit to be tested.
(5) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. You must make available to the Administrator in the test report, records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(d) The owner or operator must determine compliance with the lead and opacity standards in § 60.372a, as follows:
(1) EPA Method 12 or EPA Method 29 of appendix A to this part must be used to determine the lead concentration (CPb) and the volumetric flow rate (Qsda) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(2) EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part and the procedures in § 60.11 must be used to determine opacity during the performance test. For EPA Method 9, the opacity numbers must be rounded off to the nearest whole percentage. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 9 with the specified conditions in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).
(ii) You must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.
(iii) You must follow the record keeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.
(iv) You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.
(v) This approval does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT
camera, software and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 and this letter is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.
(3) When different operations in a three-process operation facility are ducted to separate control devices, the lead emission concentration (C) from the facility must be determined using equation 1 to this paragraph (d)(3) as follows:
ER23FE23.001
Where:
C = concentration of lead emissions for the entire facility, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
C
a
= concentration of lead emissions from facility “a,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sda
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from facility “a,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
n = total number of control devices to which separate operations in the facility are ducted.
(4) The owner or operator of lead oxide manufacturing facility must determine compliance with the lead standard in § 60.372a(a)(5) as follows:
(i) The emission rate (E) from lead oxide manufacturing facility must be computed for each run using equation 2 to this paragraph (d)(4)(i) as follows:
ER23FE23.002
Where:
E = emission rate of lead, mg/kg (lb/ton) of lead charged.
C
Pbi
= concentration of lead from emission point “i,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from emission point “i,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
M = number of emission points in the affected facility.
P = lead feed rate to the facility, kg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1.0 mg/mg (7000 gr/lb).
(ii) The average lead feed rate (P) must be determined for each run using equation 3 to this paragraph (d)(4)(ii) as follows:
ER23FE23.003
Where:
N = number of lead ingots charged.
W = average mass of the lead ingots, kg (ton).
Q
= duration of run, hr.
§ 60.375a
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and maintain them in a format readily available for review onsite for a period of 5 years.
(1) Records of pressure drop values and liquid flow rate from the monitoring required in § 60.373a(a) for scrubbing systems.
(2) Records of fabric filter inspections and maintenance activities required in § 60.373a(b)(1).
(3) Records required under § 60.373a(b)(3) or (b)(6)(ii) of fabric filter pressure drop, pressure drop observed
outside of normal operating ranges as specified by the manufacturer, and corrective actions taken.
(4) Records of the required opacity measurements in § 60.373a(b)(4) or (b)(6)(iii).
(5) If a bag leak detection system is used under § 60.373a(b)(5), for a period of 5 years, keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.
(ii) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.
(iii) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under § 60.373a(b)(5).
(6) Records of all cleaning required as part of the practices described in the fugitive dust mitigation plan required under § 60.372a(c) for the control of fugitive dust emissions.
(7) You must keep the records of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part as specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard in this part, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, the cause and duration of each failure.
(ii) For each failure to meet an applicable standard in this part, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(iii) Record actions taken to minimize emissions and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(b) Beginning on April 24, 2023, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or demonstration of compliance required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.
Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3)
Data collected containing confidential business information (CBI).
(i) The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA.
(ii) The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(iii) Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2.
(iv) The preferred method for CBI submittal is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described in this paragraph (b)(3), should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(v) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention: Lead Acid Battery Sector Lead and Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer wrapping.
(vi) All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(vii) You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) You must submit a report of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and summary report according to § 60.7(c) and (d) to the Administrator semiannually. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part. For each instance, report the date, time, cause, and duration of each failure. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions. You must use the appropriate spreadsheet template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. As stated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. If you claim CBI, submit the report following description in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to CEDRI as described in this section.
(d) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(e) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of
force majeure
for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of
force majeure,
you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a
force majeure
event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a
force majeure
event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the
force majeure
event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the
force majeure
event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of
force majeure
and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the
force majeure
event occurs.
(f) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.

# Subpart LL—Standards of Performance for Metallic Mineral Processing Plants

# Source:
49 FR 6464, Feb. 21, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.380
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in metallic mineral processing plants: Each crusher and screen in open-pit mines; each crusher, screen, bucket elevator, conveyor belt transfer point, thermal dryer, product packaging station, storage bin, enclosed storage area, truck loading station, truck unloading station, railcar loading station, and railcar unloading station at the mill or concentrator with
the following exceptions. All facilities located in underground mines are exempted from the provisions of this subpart. At uranium ore processing plants, all facilities subsequent to and including the beneficiation of uranium ore are exempted from the provisions of this subpart.
(b) An affected facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after August 24, 1982, is subject to the requirements of this part.
§ 60.381
Definitions.
All terms used in this subpart, but not specifically defined in this section, shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Bucket elevator
means a conveying device for metallic minerals consisting of a head and foot assembly that supports and drives an endless single or double strand chain or belt to which buckets are attached.
Capture system
means the equipment used to capture and transport particulate matter generated by one or more affected facilities to a control device.
Control device
means the air pollution control equipment used to reduce particulate matter emissions released to the atmosphere from one or more affected facilities at a metallic mineral processing plant.
Conveyor belt transfer point
means a point in the conveying operation where the metallic mineral or metallic mineral concentrate is transferred to or from a conveyor belt except where the metallic mineral is being transferred to a stockpile.
Crusher
means a machine used to crush any metallic mineral and includes feeders or conveyors located immediately below the crushing surfaces. Crushers include, but are not limited to, the following types: jaw, gyratory, cone, and hammermill.
Enclosed storage area
means any area covered by a roof under which metallic minerals are stored prior to further processing or loading.
Metallic mineral concentrate
means a material containing metallic compounds in concentrations higher than naturally occurring in ore but requiring additional processing if pure metal is to be isolated. A metallic mineral concentrate contains at least one of the following metals in any of its oxidation states and at a concentration that contributes to the concentrate's commercial value: Aluminum, copper, gold, iron, lead, molybdenum, silver, titanium, tungsten, uranium, zinc, and zirconium. This definition shall not be construed as requiring that material containing metallic compounds be refined to a pure metal in order for the material to be considered a metallic mineral concentrate to be covered by the standards.
Metallic mineral processing plant
means any combination of equipment that produces metallic mineral concentrates from ore. Metallic mineral processing commences with the mining of ore and includes all operations either up to and including the loading of wet or dry concentrates or solutions of metallic minerals for transfer to facilities at non-adjacent locations that will subsequently process metallic concentrates into purified metals (or other products), or up to and including all material transfer and storage operations that precede the operations that produce refined metals (or other products) from metallic mineral concentrates at facilities adjacent to the metallic mineral processing plant. This definition shall not be construed as requiring that mining of ore be conducted in order for the combination of equipment to be considered a metallic mineral processing plant. (See also the definition of
metallic mineral concentrate.
)
Process fugitive emissions
means particulate matter emissions from an affected facility that are not collected by a capture system.
Product packaging station
means the equipment used to fill containers with metallic compounds or metallic mineral concentrates.
Railcar loading station
means that portion of a metallic mineral processing plant where metallic minerals or metallic mineral concentrates are loaded by a conveying system into railcars.
Railcar unloading station
means that portion of a metallic mineral processing plant where metallic ore is unloaded from a railcar into a hopper, screen, or crusher.
Screen
means a device for separating material according to size by passing undersize material through one or more mesh surfaces (screens) in series and retaining oversize material on the mesh surfaces (screens).
Stack emissions
means the particulate matter captured and released to the atmosphere through a stack, chimney, or flue.
Storage bin
means a facility for storage (including surge bins and hoppers) of metallic minerals prior to further processing or loading.
Surface moisture
means water that is not chemically bound to a metallic mineral or metallic mineral concentrate.
Thermal dryer
means a unit in which the surface moisture content of a metallic mineral or a metallic mineral concentrate is reduced by direct or indirect contact with a heated gas stream.
Truck loading station
means that portion of a metallic mineral processing plant where metallic minerals or metallic mineral concentrates are loaded by a conveying system into trucks.
Truck unloading station
means that portion of a metallic mineral processing plant where metallic ore is unloaded from a truck into a hopper, screen, or crusher.
[49 FR 6464, Feb. 21, 1984, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.382
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from an affected facility any stack emissions that:
(1) Contain particulate matter in excess of 0.05 grams per dry standard cubic meter (0.05 g/dscm).
(2) Exhibit greater than 7 percent opacity, unless the stack emissions are discharged from an affected facility using a wet scrubbing emission control device.
(b) On and after the sixtieth day after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but not later than 180 days after initial startup, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from an affected facility any process fugitive emissions that exhibit greater than 10 percent opacity.
[49 FR 6464, Feb. 21, 1984, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000; 79 FR 11250, Feb. 27, 2014]
§ 60.383
Reconstruction.
(a) The cost of replacement of ore-contact surfaces on processing equipment shall not be considered in calculating either the “fixed capital cost of the new components” or the “fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable new facility” under § 60.15. Ore-contact surfaces are: Crushing surfaces; screen meshes, bars, and plates; conveyor belts; elevator buckets; and pan feeders.
(b) Under § 60.15, the “fixed capital cost of the new components” includes the fixed capital cost of all depreciable components (except components specified in paragraph (a) of this section) that are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement commenced within any 2-year period following August 24, 1982.
§ 60.384
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the change in pressure of the gas stream through the scrubber for any affected facility using a wet scrubbing emission control device. The monitoring device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±250 pascals (±1 inch water) gauge pressure and must be calibrated on an annual basis in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
(b) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid flow rate to a wet scrubber for any affected facility using any type of wet scrubbing emission control device. The monitoring device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±5 percent of design scrubbing liquid
flow rate and must be calibrated on at least an annual basis in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
§ 60.385
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall conduct a performance test and submit to the Administrator a written report of the results of the test as specified in § 60.8(a).
(b) During the initial performance test of a wet scrubber, and at least weekly thereafter, the owner or operator shall record the measurements of both the change in pressure of the gas stream across the scrubber and the scrubbing liquid flow rate.
(c) After the initial performance test of a wet scrubber, the owner or operator shall submit semiannual reports to the Administrator of occurrences when the measurements of the scrubber pressure loss (or gain) or liquid flow rate differ by more than ±30 percent from the average obtained during the most recent performance test.
(d) The reports required under paragraph (c) shall be postmarked within 30 days following the end of the second and fourth calendar quarters.
(e) The requirements of this subsection remain in force until and unless the Agency, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such States. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with this subsection, provided that they comply with requirements established by the State.
[49 FR 6464, Feb. 21, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 6676, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.386
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine complance with the particulate matter standards § 60.382 as follows:
(1) Method 5 or 17 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sample volume for each run shall be at least 1.70 dscm (60 dscf). The sampling probe and filter holder of Method 5 may be operated without heaters if the gas stream being sampled is at ambient temperature. For gas streams above ambient temperature, the Method 5 sampling train shall be operated with a probe and filter temperature slightly above the effluent temperature (up to a maximum filter temperature of 121 °C (250 °F)) in order to prevent water condensation on the filter.
(2) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity from stack emissions and process fugitive emissions. The observer shall read opacity only when emissions are clearly identified as emanating solely from the affected facility being observed. A single visible emission observer may conduct visible emission observations for up to three fugitive, stack, or vent emission points within a 15-second interval. This option is subject to the following limitations:
(i) No more than three emission points are read concurrently;
(ii) All three emission points must be within a 70° viewing sector or angle in front of the observer such that the proper sun position can be maintained for all three points; and
(iii) If an opacity reading for any one of the three emission points is within 5 percent opacity of the application standard, then the observer must stop taking readings for the other two points and continue reading just that single point.
(c) To comply with § 60.385(c), the owner or operator shall use the monitoring devices in § 60.384(a) and (b) to determine the pressure loss of the gas stream through the scrubber and scrubbing liquid flow rate at any time during each particulate matter run, and the average of the three determinations shall be computed.
[54 FR 6676, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000; 79 FR 11250, Feb. 27, 2014]

# Subpart MM—Standards of Performance for Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After October 5, 1979, and On or Before May 18, 2022

# Source:
45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.390
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the following affected facilities in an automobile or light-duty truck assembly plant: each prime coat operation, each guide coat operation, and each topcoat operation.
(b) Exempted from the provisions of this subpart are operations used to coat plastic body components or all-plastic automobile or light-duty truck bodies on separate coating lines. The attachment of plastic body parts to a metal body before the body is coated does not cause the metal body coating operation to be exempted.
(c) The provisions of this subpart apply to any affected facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that begins construction, reconstruction, or modification after October 5, 1979, and on or before May 18, 2022.
[45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 88 FR 29999, May 9, 2023]
§ 60.391
Definitions.
(a) All terms used in this subpart that are not defined below have the meaning given to them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Applied coating solids
means the volume of dried or cured coating solids which is deposited and remains on the surface of the automobile or light-duty truck body.
Automobile
means a motor vehicle capable of carrying no more than 12 passengers.
Automobile and light-duty truck body
means the exterior surface of an automobile or light-duty truck including hoods, fenders, cargo boxes, doors, and grill opening panels.
Bake oven
means a device that uses heat to dry or cure coatings.
Electrodeposition (EDP)
means a method of applying a prime coat by which the automobile or light-duty truck body is submerged in a tank filled with coating material and an electrical field is used to effect the deposition of the coating material on the body.
Electrostatic spray application
means a spray application method that uses an electrical potential to increase the transfer efficiency of the coating solids. Electrostatic spray application can be used for prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat operations.
Flash-off area
means the structure on automobile and light-duty truck assembly lines between the coating application system (dip tank or spray booth) and the bake oven.
Flash-off area
also means the structure between spray booths in a wet-on-wet coating process in which some of the solvent evaporates before the next spray booth; the flash off area may be ambient temperature or heated to accelerate evaporation.
Guide coat operation
means the guide coat spray booth, flash-off area and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure a surface coating between the prime coat and topcoat operation on the components of automobile and light-duty truck bodies.
Light-duty truck
means any motor vehicle rated at 3,850 kilograms gross vehicle weight or less, designed mainly to transport property.
Plastic body
means an automobile or light-duty truck body constructed of synthetic organic material.
Plastic body component
means any component of an automobile or light-duty truck exterior surface constructed of synthetic organic material.
Prime coat operation
means the prime coat spray booth or dip tank, flash-off area, and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure the initial coating on components of automobile or light-duty truck bodies.
Purge
or
line purge
means the coating material expelled from the spray system when clearing it.
Solids Turnover Ratio (R
T
) means the ratio of total volume of coating solids that is added to the EDP system in a calendar month divided by the total
volume design capacity of the EDP system.
Solvent-borne
means a coating which contains five percent or less water by weight in its volatile fraction.
Spray application
means a method of applying coatings by atomizing the coating material and directing the atomized material toward the part to be coated. Spray applications can be used for prime coat, guide coat, and topcoat operations.
Spray booth
means a structure housing automatic or manual spray application equipment where prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat is applied to components of automobile or light-duty truck bodies.
Surface coating operation
means any prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat operation on an automobile or light-duty truck surface coating line.
Topcoat operation
means the topcoat spray booth, flash-off area, and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure the final coating(s) on components of automobile and light-duty truck bodies.
Transfer efficiency
means the ratio of the amount of coating solids transferred onto the surface of a part or product to the total amount of coating solids used.
VOC content
means all volatile organic compounds that are in a coating expressed as kilograms of VOC per liter of coating solids.
Volume Design Capacity of EDP System (LE)
means the total liquid volume that is contained in the EDP system (tank, pumps, recirculating lines, filters, etc.) at its designed liquid operating level.
Waterborne
or
water reducible
means a coating which contains more than five weight percent water in its volatile fraction.
(b) The nomenclature used in this subpart has the following meanings:
C
aj
= concentration of VOC (as carbon) in the effluent gas flowing through stack (j) leaving the control device (parts per million by volume),
C
bi
= concentration of VOC (as carbon) in the effluent gas flowing through stack (i) entering the control device (parts per million by volume),
C
fk
= concentration of VOC (as carbon) in the effluent gas flowing through exhaust stack (k) not entering the control device (parts per million by volume),
D
ci
= density of each coating (i) as received (kilograms per liter),
D
dj
= density of each type VOC dilution solvent (j) added to the coatings, as received (kilograms per liter),
D
r
= density of VOC recovered from an affected facility (kilograms per liter),
E = VOC destruction or removal efficiency of the control device,
F = fraction of total VOC which is emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device,
G = volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids (kilograms per liter),
L
ci
= volume of each coating (i) consumed, as received (liters),
L
cil
= Volume of each coating (i) consumed by each application method (l), as received (liters),
L
dj
= volume of each type VOC dilution solvent (j) added to the coatings, as received (liters),
L
r
= volume of VOC recovered from an affected facility (liters),
L
s
= volume of solids in coatings consumed (liters),
L
E
= the total volume of the EDP system (liters),
M
d
= total mass of VOC in dilution solvent (kilograms),
M
0
= total mass of VOC in coatings as received (kilograms),
M
r
= total mass of VOC recovered from an affected facility (kilograms),
N = volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids after the control device
EC16NO91.024
Q
aj
= volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas flowing through stack (j) leaving the control device (dry standard cubic meters per hour),
Q
bi
= volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas flowing through stack (i) entering the control device (dry standard cubic meters per hour),
Q
fk
= volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas flowing through exhaust stack (k) not entering the control device (dry standard cubic meters per hour),
T = overall transfer efficiency,
T
l
= transfer efficiency for application method (
l
),
V
si
= proportion of solids by volume in each coating (i) as received
EC16NO91.025
W
oi
= proportion of VOC by weight in each coating (i), as received
EC16NO91.026
[45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 51386, Oct. 11, 1994; 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000; 88 FR 30000, May 9, 2023]
§ 60.392
Standards for volatile organic compounds.
On and after the date on which the initial performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility VOC emissions in excess of the limitations listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. The emission limitations listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) shall apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction. As provided in § 60.11(f), this provision supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction in the general provisions in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Prime Coat Operation.
(1) For each EDP prime coat operation:
(i) 0.17 kilogram of VOC per liter of applied coating solids when R
T
is 0.16 or greater.
(ii) 0.17 × 350 (
0.160−R
T
) kg of VOC per liter of applied coating solids when R
T
is greater than or equal to 0.040 and less than 0.160.
(iii) When R
T
is less than 0.040, there is no emission limit.
(2) For each nonelectrodeposition prime coat operation: 0.17 kilogram of VOC per liter of applied coating solids.
(b) 1.40 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from each guide coat operation.
(c) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from each topcoat operation.
[45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 51386, Oct. 11, 1994; 88 FR 30000, May 9, 2023]
§ 60.393
Performance test and compliance provisions.
(a) Section 60.8 (d) and (f) do not apply to the performance test procedures required by this section.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test in accordance with § 60.8(a) and thereafter for each calendar month for each affected facility according to the procedures in this section.
(c) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for determining the monthly volume weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of applied coating solids.
(1) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility which does not use a capture system and a control device to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392.
(i) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids for each calendar month for each affected facility. The owner or operator shall determine the composition of the coatings by formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating or from data determined by an analysis of each coating, as received, by Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating to determine data used in the calculation of the VOC content of coatings by Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method. The owner or operator shall determine from company records on a monthly basis the volume of coating consumed, as received, and the mass of solvent used for thinning purposes. The volume weighted average of the total mass of VOC per volume of coating solids used each calendar month will be determined by the following procedures.
(A) Calculate the mass of VOC used in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation where “n” is the total number of coatings used and “m” is the total number of VOC solvents used:
EC16NO91.027
[
Σ
L
dj
D
dj
will be zero if no VOC solvent is added to the coatings, as received].
(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used in each calendar month for each affected facility by the
following equation where “n” is the total number of coatings used:
EC16NO91.028
(C) Select the appropriate transfer efficiency (T) from the following tables for each surface coating operation:
Application method
Transfer efficiency
Air Atomized Spray (waterborne coating)
0.39
Air Atomized Spray (solvent-borne coating)
0.50
Manual Electrostatic Spray
0.75
Automatic Electrostatic Spray
0.95
Electrodeposition
1.00
The values in the table above represent an overall system efficiency which includes a total capture of purge. If a spray system uses line purging after each vehicle and does not collect any of the purge material, the following table shall be used:
Application method
Transfer efficiency
Air Atomized Spray (waterborne coating)
0.30
Air Atomized Spray (solvent-borne coating)
0.40
Manual Electrostatic Spray
0.62
Automatic Electrostatic Spray
0.75
If the owner or operator can justify to the Administrator's satisfaction that other values for transfer efficiencies are appropriate, the Administrator will approve their use on a case-by-case basis.
(
1
) When more than one application method (
l
) is used on an individual surface coating operation, the owner or operator shall perform an analysis to determine an average transfer efficiency by the following equation where “n” is the total number of coatings used and “p” is the total number of application methods:
EC16NO91.029
(D) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.030
(E) For each EDP prime coat operation, calculate the turnover ratio (R
T
) by the following equation:
ER11OC94.000
Then calculate or select the appropriate limit according to § 60.392(a).
(ii) If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G), calculated on a calendar month basis, is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purpose of this subpart.
(2) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility which uses a capture system and a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392.
(i) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393(c)(1)(i).
(ii) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device, by the following equation: N = G[1-FE]
(A) Determine the fraction of total VOC which is emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device by using the following equation where “n” is the total number of stacks entering the control device and “p” is the total number of stacks not connected to the control device:
ER09MY23.000
(
1
) In subsequent months, the owner or operator shall use the most recently determined capture fraction for the performance test.
(
2
) If the owner can justify to the Administrator's satisfaction that another method will give comparable results, the Administrator will approve its use on a case-by-case basis.
(B) Determines the destruction efficiency of the control device using values of the volumetric flow rate of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the device by the following equation where “n” is the total number of stacks entering the control device and “m” is the total number of stacks leaving the control device:
EC01JN92.014
(
1
) In subsequent months, the owner or operator shall use the most recently determined VOC destruction efficiency for the performance test.
(C) If an emission control device controls the emissions from more than one affected facility, the owner or operator shall measure the VOC concentration (C
bi
) in the effluent gas entering the control device (in parts per million by volume) and the volumetric flow rate (Q
bi
) of the effluent gas (in dry standard cubic meters per hour) entering the device through each stack. The destruction or removal efficiency determined using these data shall be applied to each affected facility served by the control device.
(iii) If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device (N) calculated on a calendar month basis is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purposes of this subpart.
(3) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility which uses a capture system and a control device that recovers the VOC (e.g., carbon adsorber) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392.
(i) Calculate the mass of VOC (M
o
+ M
d
) used during each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393(c)(1)(i).
(ii) Calculate the total volume of coating solids (L
s
) used in each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393(c)(1)(i).
(iii) Calculate the mass of VOC recovered (M
r
) each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation: M
r
= L
r
D
r
(iv) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids emitted after the control device during a calendar month by the following equation:
EC16NO91.031
(v) If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device (N) calculated on a calendar month basis is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purposes of this subpart.
[45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 51387, Oct. 11, 1994; 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000; 88 FR 30000, May 9, 2023]
§ 60.394
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
The owner or operator of an affected facility which uses an incinerator to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.392 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate temperature measurement devices as prescribed below:
(a) Where thermal incineration is used, a temperature measurement device shall be installed in the firebox. Where catalytic incineration is used, a temperature measurement device shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.
(b) Each temperature measurement device shall be installed, calibrated, and maintained according to accepted practice and the manufacturer's specifications. The device shall have an accuracy of the greater of ±5 percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius or ±2.5 °C.
(c) Each temperature measurement device shall be equipped with a recording device so that a permanent record is produced.
§ 60.395
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall include the data outlined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) in the initial compliance report required by § 60.8.
(1) The owner or operator shall report the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids for each affected facility.
(2) Where compliance is achieved through the use of incineration, the owner or operator shall include the following additional data in the control device initial performance test required by § 60.8(a) or subsequent performance tests at which destruction efficiency is determined: the combustion temperature (or the gas temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed), the total mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids before and after the incinerator, capture efficiency, the destruction efficiency of the incinerator used to attain compliance with the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392 and a description of the method used to establish the fraction of VOC captured and sent to the control device.
(b) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit a report to the Administrator every calendar quarter of each instance in which the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) is greater than the limit specified under § 60.392. If no such instances have occurred during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually. Where compliance is achieved through the use of a capture system and control device, the volume-weighted average after the control device should be reported.
(c) Where compliance with § 60.392 is achieved through the use of incineration, the owner or operator shall continuously record the incinerator combustion temperature during coating operations for thermal incineration or the gas temperature upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed during coating operations for catalytic incineration. The owner or operator shall submit a report at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) and paragraph (e) of this section.
(1) For thermal incinerators, every three-hour period shall be reported during which the average temperature measured is more than 28 °C less than the average temperature during the most recent control device performance test at which the destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.393.
(2) For catalytic incinerators, every three-hour period shall be reported during which the average temperature immediately before the catalyst bed, when the coating system is operational, is more than 28 °C less than the average temperature immediately before the catalyst bed during the most recent control device performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.393. In addition, every three-hour period shall be reported each quarter during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed when the coating system is operational is less than 80 percent of the average temperature difference of the device during the most recent control device performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.393.
(3) For thermal and catalytic incinerators, if no such periods occur, the owner or operator shall submit a negative report.
(d) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of any test by Method 25.
(e) The owner or operator shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section following the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. In addition to the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, owners or operators are required to report excess emissions and a monitoring systems performance report and a summary report to the Administrator according to § 60.7(c) and (d). Owners or operators are required by § 60.7(c) and (d) to report the date, time, cause, and duration of each exceedance of the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392, any malfunction of the air pollution control equipment, and any periods during which the CMS or monitoring device is inoperative. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(1)
Effective date.
On and after November 6, 2023, or once the reporting template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1-year, whichever date is later, owners or operators must use the appropriate spreadsheet template on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date the reporting template for this subpart becomes available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method by which the report is submitted. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Any information submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. If you claim CBI, submit the report following the procedure described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to CEDRI as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(2)
System outage.
Owner or operators that are required to submit a report electronically through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, owners or operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(ii) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(iii) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(iv) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(v) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(A) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed, and the system was unavailable;
(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(C) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(vi) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(vii) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(3)
Force majeure.
Owner or operators that are required to submit a report electronically through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, may assert a claim of force
majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, Owner or operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.
(i) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(ii) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(iii) You must provide to the Administrator:
(A) A written description of the force majeure event;
(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(C) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(iv) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(f) Where compliance is achieved through the use of incineration, the owner or operator shall submit control device performance test results at which destruction efficiency is determined for initial and subsequent performance tests according to paragraph (a) of this section within 60 days of completing each performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test.
(i) Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
).
(ii) The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, the owner or operator may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
(i) The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(ii) Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3) Confidential business information (CBI). Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Any information submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. Owners or operators that assert a CBI claim for any information submitted under paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section, must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the
EPA's ERT website. Owners or operators can submit CBI according to one of the two procedures in paragraph (f)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission.
(i) If sending CBI through the postal service, submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Owners or operators are required to mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations Sector Lead, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(ii) The EPA preferred method for CBI submittal is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or other online file sharing services (
e.g.,
Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive). Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
Attention: Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations Sector Lead, and as described above, should be clearly identified as CBI. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, you may email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
[45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 55 FR 51383, Dec. 13, 1990; 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000; 88 FR 30000, May 9, 2023]
§ 60.396
Reference methods and procedures.
(a) The reference methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided in § 60.8 shall be used to conduct performance tests.
(1) Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method approved by the Administrator shall be used for the determination of the data used in the calculation of the VOC content of the coatings used for each affected facility. Manufacturers' formulation data is approved by the Administrator as an alternative method to Method 24. In the event of dispute, Method 24 shall be the referee method.
(2) Method 25 or an equivalent or alternative method approved by the Administrator shall be used for the determination of the VOC concentration in the effluent gas entering and leaving the emission control device for each stack equipped with an emission control device and in the effluent gas leaving each stack not equipped with a control device.
(3) The following methods shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate in the effluent gas in a stack:
(i) Method 1 for sample and velocity traverses,
(ii) Method 2 for velocity and volumetric flow rate,
(iii) Method 3 for gas analysis, and
(iv) Method 4 for stack gas moisture.
(b) For Method 24, the coating sample must be a 1-liter sample taken in a 1-liter container.
(c) For Method 25, the sampling time for each of three runs must be at least one hour. The minimum sample volume must be 0.003 dscm except that shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other factors, may be approved by the Administrator. The Administrator will approve the sampling of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the testing of representative stacks would yield results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks.
[45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.397
Modifications.
The following physical or operational changes are not, by themselves, considered modifications of existing facilities:
(a) Changes as a result of model year changeovers or switches to larger cars.
(b) Changes in the application of the coatings to increase coating film thickness.
§ 60.398
Innovative technology waivers.
(a)
General Motors Corporation, Wentzville, Missouri, automobile assembly
plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at General Motors Corporation automobile assembly plant located in Wentzville, Missouri, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) The General Motors Corporation shall obtain the necessary permits as required by section 173 of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Wentzville assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on February 4, 1983, and continuing to December 31, 1986, or until the base coat/clear coat topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980) is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction the General Motors Corporation shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the Wentzville, Missouri, assembly plant, to either:
(A) 1.9 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from base coat/clear coat topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC from each topcoat operations shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980).
(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for base coat/clear coat coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region VII, 324 East 11th Street, Kansas City, MO 64106, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. The technology development report shall summarize the base coat/clear coat development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980) based on the most current information.
(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for General Motors Corporation to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this waiver shall subject the General Motors Corporation to enforcement under section 113 (b) and (c), 42 U.S.C. 7412 (b) and (c), and section 120, 42 U.S.C. 7420, of the Act as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 7604.
(b)
General Motors Corporation, Detroit, Michigan, Automobile Assembly plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at General Motors Corporation's automobile assembly plant located in Detroit, MI, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) The General Motors Corporation shall obtain the necessary permits as required by section 173 of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Detroit assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on February 4, 1983, and continuing to December 31, 1986, or until the base coat/clear coat topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980), is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, the General Motors Corporation shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the Detroit, MI, assembly plant, to either:
(A) 1.9 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from base coat/clear coat topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (b)(ii) of this section, and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per
liter of applied coating solids as specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (December 24, 1980).
(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for base coat/clear coat coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region V, 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. The technology development report shall summarize the base coat/clear coat development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980) based on the most current information.
(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for General Motors Corporation to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this waiver shall subject the General Motors Corporation to enforcement under section 113 (b) and (c), 42 U.S.C. 7412 (b) and (c), and section 120, 42 U.S.C. 7420, of the Act as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 7604.
(c)
General Motors Corporation, Orion Township, MI, automobile assembly plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at General Motors Corporation automobile assembly plant located in Orion Township, MI, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) The General Motors Corporation shall obtain the necessary permits as required by section 173 of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Orion Township assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on February 4, 1983, and continuing to December 31, 1986, or until the base coat/clear coat topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980) is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, the General Motors Corporation shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the Orion Township, MI, assembly plant, to either:
(A) 1.9 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from base coat/clear coat topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (c)(l)(ii) of this section and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980).
(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for base coat/clear coat coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in paragraph (c)(l) (ii)(A) of this section.
(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region V, 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. The technology development report shall summarize the base coat/clear coat development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of 40 CFR 60.392(c) (December 24, 1980) based on the most current information.
(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for General Motors Corporation to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this waiver shall subject the
General Motors Corporation to enforcement under section 113 (b) and (c), 42 U.S.C. 7412 (b) and (c), and section 120, 42 U.S.C. 7420, of the Act as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 7604.
(d)
Honda of America Manufacturing, Incorporated (Honda), Marysville, Ohio, automobile assembly plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at Honda's automobile assembly plant located in Marysville, OH, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) Honda shall obtain the necessary permits as required by section 173 of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Marysville assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on February 4, 1983, and continuing for 4 years or to December 31, 1986, whichever is sooner, or until the base coat/clear coat topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980) is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, Honda shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at Marysville, OH, assembly plant, to either:
(A) 3.1 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from base coat/clear coat topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (December 24, 1980).
(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for base coat/clear coat coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region V, 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. The technology development report shall summarize the base coat/clear coat development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980) based on the most current information.
(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for Honda to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this waiver shall subject Honda to enforcement under section 113(b) and (c), 42 U.S.C. 7412(b) and (c), and section 120, 42 U.S.C. 7420, of the Act as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 7604.
(e)
Nissan Motor Manufacturing Corporation, U.S.A. (Nissan), Smyrna, TN, light-duty truck assembly plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at Nissan's light-duty truck assembly plant located in Smyrna, Tennessee, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) Nissan shall obtain the necessary permits as required by section 173 of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Smyrna assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on February 4, 1983, and continuing for 4 years or to December 31, 1986, whichever is sooner, or until the base coat/clear coat topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980), is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, Nissan shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the Smyrna, TN, assembly plant, to either:
(A) 2.3 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from base coat/clear coat topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified in 40 CFR 60.392(c) (Dec. 24, 1980).
Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for base coat/clear coat coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(f)
Chrysler Corporation, Sterling Heights, MI, automobile assembly plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at Chrysler Corporation's automobile assembly plant located in Sterling Heights, MI, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) The Chrysler Corporation shall obtain the necessary permits as required under Parts C and D of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Sterling Heights assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on September 9, 1985, and continuing to December 31, 1986, or until the basecoat/clearcoat (BC/CC) topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, whichever is sooner, the Chrysler Corporation shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the Sterling Heights, MI assembly plant, to either:
(A) 1.7 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from BC/CC topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC's from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart.
(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for BC/CC coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified under paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region V, 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. A copy of this report shall be sent to Director, Emission Standards and Engineering Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, MD-13, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. The technology development report shall summarize the BC/CC development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of § 60.392(c) of this subpart, based on the most current information.
(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for the Chrysler Corporation to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this waiver shall subject the Chrysler Corporation to enforcement under sections 113 (b) and (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7412 (b) and (c)) and under section 120 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7420), as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7604).
(3) This waiver shall not be construed to constrain the State of Michigan from imposing upon the Chrysler Corporation any emission reduction requirement at Chrysler's Sterling Heights automobile assembly plant
necessary for the maintenance of reasonable further progress or the attainment of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone or the maintenance of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone. Furthermore, this waiver shall not be construed as granting any exemptions from the applicability, enforcement, or other provisions of any other standards that apply or may apply to topcoat operations or any other operations at this automobile assembly plant.
(g)
Ford Motor Company, Hapeville, GA, automotive assemply plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at Ford Motor Company's automobile assembly plant located in Hapeville, GA, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) The Ford Motor Company shall obtain the necessary permits as required under parts C and D of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Hapeville assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on September 9, 1985, and continuing to December 31, 1986, or until the basecoat/clearcoat (BC/CC) topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, whichever is sooner, the Ford Motor Company shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the Hapeville, GA, assembly plant, to either:
(A) 2.6 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from BC/CC topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC's from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart.
(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for BC/CC coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified under paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region IV, 345 Courtland Street, NE., Atlanta, GA 30365, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. A copy of this report shall be sent to Director, Emission Standards and Engineering Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, MD-13, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. The technology development report shall summarize the BC/CC development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of § 60.392(c) of this subpart, based on the most current information.
(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for the Ford Motor Company to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this waiver shall subject the Ford Motor Company to enforcement under section 113 (b) and (c) and the Act (42 U.S.C. 7412 (b) and (c)) and under section 120 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7420), as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7604).
(3) This waiver shall not be construed to constrain the State of Georgia from imposing upon the Ford Motor Corporation any emission reduction requirement at Ford's Hapeville automobile assembly plant necessary for the maintenance of reasonable further progress or the attainment of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone or the maintenance of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone. Furthermore, this waiver shall not be construed as granting any exemptions from the applicability, enforcement, or other provisions of any other standards that apply or may apply to topcoat operations or any other operations at this automobile assembly plant.
(h)
Ford Motor Company, St. Paul, MN, light-duty truck assembly plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at Ford Motor Company's automobile assembly plant located in St. Paul, MN, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) The Ford Motor Company shall obtain the necessary permits as required under parts C and D of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the St. Paul assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on September 9, 1985, and continuing to December 31, 1986, or until the basecoat/clearcoat (BC/CC) topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart, is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, whichever is sooner, the Ford Motor Company shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the St. Paul, MN, assembly plant, to either:
(A) 2.0 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from BC/CC topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC's from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart.
(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for BC/CC coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified under paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region V, 230 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL 60604, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. A copy of this report shall be sent to Director, Emission Standards and Engineering Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, MD-13, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. The technology development report shall summarize the BC/CC development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of § 60.392(c) of this subpart, based on the most current information.
(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for the Ford Motor Company to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this wavier shall subject the Ford Motor Company to enforcement under section 113 (b) and (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7412 (b) and (c)) and under section 120 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7420), as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7604).
(3) This waiver shall not be construed to constrain the State of Minnesota from imposing upon the Ford Motor Corporation any emission reduction requirements at Ford's St. Paul light-duty truck assembly plant necessary for the maintenance of reasonable further progress or the attainment of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone or the maintenance of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone. Furthermore, this waiver shall not be construed as granting any exemptions from the applicability, enforcement, or other provisions of any other standards that apply or may apply to topcoat operations or any other operations at this light-duty truck assembly plant.
(i)
Ford Motor Company, Hazelwood, MO, passenger van assembly plant.
(1) Pursuant to section 111(j) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411(j), each topcoat operation at Ford Motor Company's passenger van assembly plant located in Hazelwood, MO, shall comply with the following conditions:
(i) The Ford Motor Company shall obtain the necessary permits as required under parts C and D of the Clean Air Act, as amended August 1977, to operate the Hazelwood assembly plant.
(ii) Commencing on September 9, 1985, and continuing to December 31, 1986, or until the basecoat/clearcoat (BC/CC) topcoat system that can achieve the standard specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction, whichever is sooner, the Ford Motor Company shall limit the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmosphere from each topcoat operation at the Hazelwood, MO, assembly plant, to either:
(A) 2.5 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from BC/CC topcoats, and 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all other topcoat coatings; or
(B) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from all topcoat coatings.
(iii) Commencing on the day after the expiration of the period described in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) and continuing thereafter, emissions of VOC's from each topcoat operation shall not exceed 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids as specified under § 60.392(c) of this subpart.
(iv) Each topcoat operation shall comply with the provisions of §§ 60.393, 60.394, 60.395, 60.396, and 60.397. Separate calculations shall be made for BC/CC coatings and all other topcoat coatings when necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified under paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
(v) A technology development report shall be sent to EPA Region VII, 726 Minnesota Avenue, Kansas City, KS 61101, postmarked before 60 days after the promulgation of this waiver and annually thereafter while this waiver is in effect. A copy of this report shall be sent to Director, Emission Standards and Engineering Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, MD-13, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. The technology development report shall summarize the BC/CC development work including the results of exposure and endurance tests of the various coatings being evaluated. The report shall include an updated schedule of attainment of § 60.392(c) of this subpart, based on the most current information.
(2) This waiver shall be a federally promulgated standard of performance. As such, it shall be unlawful for the Ford Motor Company to operate a topcoat operation in violation of the requirements established in this waiver. Violation of the terms and conditions of this waiver shall subject the Ford Motor Company to enforcement under section 113 (b) and (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7412 (b) and (c)) and under section 120 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7420), as well as possible citizen enforcement under section 304 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7604).
(3) This waiver shall not be construed to constrain the State of Missouri from imposing upon the Ford Motor Corporation any emission reduction at Ford's Hazelwood passenger van assembly plant necessary for the maintenance of reasonable further progress or the attainment of the national ambient air quality standards for ozone or the maintenance of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone. Furthermore, this waiver shall not be construed as granting any exemptions from the applicability, enforcement, or other provisions of any other standards that apply or may apply to topcoat operations or any other operations at this passenger van assembly plant.
[48 FR 5454, Feb. 4, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 36834, Sept. 9, 1985]

# Subpart MMa—Standards of Performance for Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations for which Construction, Modification or Reconstruction Commenced After May 18, 2022

# Source:
88 FR 30002, May 9, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.390a
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the following affected facilities in an automobile or light-duty truck assembly plant specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section:
(1) Each prime coat operation, each guide coat operation, and each topcoat operation.
(2) All storage containers and mixing vessels in which coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials are stored or mixed.
(3) All manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials.
(4) All storage containers and all manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a coating operation.
(b) Exempted from the provisions of this subpart are operations used to coat plastic body components on separate coating lines. The attachment of plastic body parts to a metal body before the body is coated does not cause the metal body coating operation to be exempted.
(c) The provisions of this subpart apply to any affected facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that begins construction, reconstruction, or modification after May 18, 2022.
(d) The following physical or operational changes are not, by themselves, considered modifications of existing facilities:
(1) Changes as a result of model year changeovers or switches to larger vehicles.
(2) Changes in the application of the coatings to increase coating film thickness.
§ 60.391a
Definitions.
All terms used in this subpart that are not defined below have the meaning given to them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Applied coating solids
means the volume of dried or cured coating solids which is deposited and remains on the surface of the automobile or light-duty truck body.
Automobile
means a motor vehicle capable of carrying no more than 12 passengers.
Automobile and light-duty truck assembly plant
means a facility that assembles automobiles or light-duty trucks, including coating facilities and processes.
Automobile and light-duty truck body
means the exterior surface of an automobile or light-duty truck including hoods, fenders, cargo boxes, doors, and grill opening panels.
Bake oven
means a device that uses heat to dry or cure coatings.
Electrodeposition (EDP)
means a method of applying a prime coat by which the automobile or light-duty truck body is submerged in a tank filled with coating material and an electrical field is used to affect the deposition of the coating material on the body.
Electrostatic spray application
means a spray application method that uses an electrical potential to increase the transfer efficiency of the coating solids. Electrostatic spray application can be used for prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat operations.
Flash-off area
means the structure on automobile and light-duty truck assembly lines between the coating application system (dip tank or spray booth) and the bake oven.
Flash off area
also means the structure between spray booths in a wet-on-wet coating process in which some of the solvent evaporates before the next spray booth; the flash off area may be ambient temperature or heated to accelerate evaporation.
Guide coat operation
means the guide coat spray booth, flash-off area, and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure a surface coating between the prime coat and topcoat operation on the components of automobile and light-duty truck bodies.
Light-duty truck
means any motor vehicle rated at 3,850 kilograms gross vehicle weight or less, designed mainly to transport property.
Plastic body
means an automobile or light-duty truck body constructed of synthetic organic material.
Plastic body component
means any component of an automobile or light-duty truck exterior surface constructed of synthetic organic material.
Prime coat operation
means the prime coat spray booth or dip tank, flash-off area, and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure the initial coating on components of automobile or light-duty truck bodies.
Purge or line purge
means the coating material expelled from the spray system when clearing it.
Solvent-borne
means a coating which contains five percent or less water by weight in its volatile fraction.
Spray application
means a method of applying coatings by atomizing the coating material and directing the atomized material toward the part to be coated. Spray applications can be used for prime coat, guide coat, and topcoat operations.
Spray booth
means a structure housing automatic or manual spray application equipment where prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat is applied to components of automobile or light-duty truck bodies.
Surface coating operation
means any prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat operation on an automobile or light-duty truck surface coating line.
Topcoat operation
means the topcoat spray booth(s), heated flash-off area, flash-off area, and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure the final coating(s) on components of automobile and light-duty truck bodies.
Transfer efficiency
means the ratio of the amount of coating solids transferred onto the surface of a part or product to the total amount of coating solids used.
VOC content
means all volatile organic compounds that are in a coating expressed as kilograms of VOC per liter of coating solids.
Waterborne or water reducible
means a coating which contains more than five weight percent water in its volatile fraction.
§ 60.392a
Standards for volatile organic compounds.
You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.
(a)
Emission limitations.
On and after the date on which the initial performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, you must not discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility VOC emissions in excess of the limits in paragraph (a)(1) through (4) of this section. The emission limitations listed in this paragraph (a) of this section shall apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction. As provided in § 60.11(f), this provision supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction in the part 60 general provisions in subpart A to this part.
(1) For each EDP prime coat operation:
(i) 0.027 kilogram of VOC per liter of applied coating solids when R
T
is 0.16 or greater.
(ii) 0.027 × 350
(0.160−RT)
kg of VOC per liter of applied coating solids when RT is greater than or equal to 0.040 and less than 0.160.
(iii) When R
T
is less than 0.040, there is no emission limit.
(2) 0.027 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids (0.23 pounds per gallon of applied coating solids) from each non-EDP prime coat operation.
(3) 0.35 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids (2.92 pounds per gallon of applied coating solids) from each guide coat operation.
(4) 0.42 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids (3.53 pounds per gallon of applied coating solids) from each topcoat operation.
(b)
Work practices for storage, mixing, and conveying.
You must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize VOC emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in, and waste materials generated by, all coating operations for which emission limits are established under § 60.392a(a). The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented.
(1) All VOC-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be stored in closed containers.
(2) The risk of spills of VOC-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be minimized.
(3) VOC-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.
(4) Mixing vessels, other than day tanks equipped with continuous agitation systems, which contain VOC-containing coatings and other materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.
(5) Emissions of VOC must be minimized during cleaning of storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.
(c)
Work practices for cleaning and purging.
You must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize VOC emissions from cleaning and from purging of equipment associated with all coating operations for which emission limits are established under paragraph (a) of this section.
(1) The plan shall, at a minimum, address each of the operations listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section in which you use VOC-containing materials or in which there is a potential for emission of VOC.
(i) The plan must address vehicle body wipe emissions through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, or an approved alternative.
(A) Use of solvent-moistened wipes.
(B) Keeping solvent containers closed when not in use.
(C) Keeping wipe disposal/recovery containers closed when not in use.
(D) Use of tack-wipes.
(ii) The plan must address coating line purging emissions through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, or an approved alternative.
(A) Air/solvent push-out.
(B) Capture and reclaim or recovery of purge materials (excluding applicator nozzles/tips).
(C) Block painting to the maximum extent feasible.
(D) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC solvents for purge.
(iii) The plan must address emissions from flushing of coating systems through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section, or an approved alternative.
(A) Keeping solvent tanks closed.
(B) Recovering and recycling solvents.
(C) Keeping recovered/recycled solvent tanks closed.
(D) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC solvents.
(iv) The plan must address emissions from cleaning of spray booth grates through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section, or an approved alternative.
(A) Controlled burn-off.
(B) Rinsing with high-pressure water (in place).
(C) Rinsing with high-pressure water (off line).
(D) Use of spray-on masking or other type of liquid masking.
(E) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC content cleaners.
(v) The plan must address emissions from cleaning of spray booth walls through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(v)(A) through (E) of this section, or an approved alternative.
(A) Use of masking materials (contact paper, plastic sheet, or other similar type of material).
(B) Use of spray-on masking.
(C) Use of rags and manual wipes instead of spray application when cleaning walls.
(D) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC content cleaners.
(E) Controlled access to cleaning solvents.
(vi) The plan must address emissions from cleaning of spray booth equipment through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(vi)(A) through (E) of this section, or an approved alternative.
(A) Use of covers on equipment (disposable or reusable).
(B) Use of parts cleaners (off-line submersion cleaning).
(C) Use of spray-on masking or other protective coatings.
(D) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC content cleaners.
(E) Controlled access to cleaning solvents.
(vii) The plan must address emissions from cleaning of external spray booth areas through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(vii)(A) through (F) of this section, or an approved alternative.
(A) Use of removable floor coverings (paper, foil, plastic, or similar type of material).
(B) Use of manual and/or mechanical scrubbers, rags, or wipes instead of spray application.
(C) Use of shoe cleaners to eliminate coating track-out from spray booths.
(D) Use of booties or shoe wraps.
(E) Use of low-VOC or no-VOC content cleaners.
(F) Controlled access to cleaning solvents.
(viii) The plan must address emissions from housekeeping measures not addressed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section through one or more of the techniques listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(viii)(A) through (C) of this section, or an approved alternative.
(A) Keeping solvent-laden articles (cloths, paper, plastic, rags, wipes, and similar items) in covered containers when not in use.
(B) Storing new and used solvents in closed containers.
(C) Transferring of solvents in a manner to minimize the risk of spills.
(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section, if the type of coatings used in any facility with surface coating operations subject to the requirements of this section are of such a nature that the need for one or more of the practices specified under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section is eliminated, then the plan may include approved alternative or equivalent measures that are applicable or necessary during cleaning of storage, conveying, and application equipment.
(d)
Work practice plan revisions.
The work practice plans developed in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are not required to be incorporated in your title V permit. Any revisions to the work practice plans developed in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section do not constitute revisions to your title V permit.
(e)
Work practice plan retention time.
Copies of the current work practice plans developed in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as well as plans developed within the preceding 5 years must be available on-site for inspection and copying by the permitting authority.
(f)
Operating limits.
You are not required to meet any operating limits for any coating operation(s) without add-on controls, nor are you required to meet operating limits for any coating operation(s) that do not utilize emission capture systems and add-on controls to comply with the emission limits in § 60.392a(a).
(g)
Operating limits for operations with add-on controls.
Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, for any controlled coating operation(s), you must meet the operating limits specified in table 1 to this subpart. These operating limits apply to the emission capture and add-on control systems for affected sources in § 60.390a(a)(1), and you must establish the operating limits during performance tests according to the requirements in § 60.394a. You must meet the operating limits at all times after you establish them.
(h)
Alternative operating limits.
If you use an add-on control device other than those listed in table 1 to this subpart or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 60.13(i).
§ 60.393a
Performance test and compliance provisions.
(a)
Representative conditions.
You must conduct performance tests under representative conditions for the affected coating operation according to § 60.8(c) and under the conditions in this section unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 60.8(b)(4).
(1) Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, or nonoperation do not constitute conditions representative of normal operation for purposes of conducting a performance test. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. Emissions in excess of the applicable emission limit during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction will be considered a violation of the applicable emission limit.
(2) You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the performance test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(3) Section 60.8(d) and (f) do not apply to the performance test procedures required by this section.
(b)
Initial and continuous compliance requirements.
You must conduct an initial performance test in accordance with § 60.8(a) and thereafter for each calendar month for each affected facility according to the procedures in this section. You must also conduct periodic performance tests of add-on controls, except for solvent recovery systems for which liquid-liquid material balances are conducted according to paragraph (l) of this section, to reestablish the operating limits required by § 60.392a within 5 years following the previous performance test. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance.
(1) To demonstrate initial compliance, the VOC emissions from affected source must meet the applicable emission limitation in § 60.392a and the work practice standards in § 60.392a and the applicable operating limits in § 60.392a established during the initial performance test using the procedures in § 60.394a and table 1 to this subpart.
(i) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of this section. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 60.8 and ends on the last day of the month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next month.
(ii) You must determine the mass of VOC emissions and volume of coating solids deposited in the initial compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 60.396a and 60.397a; supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the VOC emission rate was equal to or less than the emission limit in § 60.392a; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 60.394a; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plans required by § 60.392(b) and (c).
(2) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 60.392a, the VOC emission rate for each compliance period, determined according to the procedures in this section, must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 60.392a. A compliance period consists of 1 month. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 60.393a(b)(1)(i) is a compliance period consisting of that month. You must perform the calculations in this section on a monthly basis.
(3) If the VOC emission rate for any 1-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 60.392a, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in § 60.395a(h).
(c)
Compliance with operating limits.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 60.392a, using the procedures specified in § 60.394a.
(1) You do not need to comply with the operating limits for the emission capture system and add-on control device required by § 60.394a until after you have completed the initial performance test specified in paragraph (b) of this section. During the period between the startup date of the affected source and the initial performance test required by § 60.8 you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, the add-on control device, and the continuous monitoring system (CMS).
(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 60.392a that applies to you, as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, and you must conduct performance tests as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(3) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in § 60.395a(h).
(4) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in table 1 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation except as provided in § 60.393a (m).
(5) Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to paragraph (l) of this section for controlled coating operations, you must conduct periodic performance tests of add-on controls and reestablish the operating limits required by § 60.392a within 5 years following the previous performance test. You must conduct the first periodic performance test within 5 years following the initial performance test required by § 60.8. Thereafter, you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test. If you are using the alternative monitoring option for a catalytic oxidizer according to § 60.394a(b)(3) and following the catalyst maintenance procedures in § 60.394a(b)(4), you are not required to conduct periodic control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph (c). For any control device for which instruments are used to continuously measure organic compound emissions, you are not required to conduct periodic control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to measuring emission capture system efficiency.
(6) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 60.394a(h) for control devices other than solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in § 60.395a(h). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in paragraph (j) of this section, you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation.
(d)
Compliance with work practice requirements.
You must develop, implement, and document implementation of the work practice plans required by § 60.392a(b) and (c) during the initial compliance period, as specified in § 60.395a.
(1) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 60.392a (b) and (c). If you did not develop a work practice plan, if you did not implement the plan, or if you did not keep the records required by § 60.395a (k)(11), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in § 60.395a (k)(4).
(2) [Reserved]
(e)
Compliance with emission limits.
You must use the following procedures in paragraphs (f) through (m) of this section to determine the monthly volume weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of applied coating solids for each affected facility to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limitation in § 60.392a. You may also use the guidelines presented in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17) in making this demonstration.
(f)
Determine the mass fraction of VOC, density, and volume for each material used.
You must follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section to determine the mass fraction of VOC, the density, and volume for each coating and thinner used during each month. For the electrodeposition primer operation, the mass fraction of VOC, density, and volume used must be determined for each material added to the tank or system during each month.
(1)
Determine the mass fraction of VOC for each material used.
You must determine the mass fraction of VOC for each material used during the compliance period by using one of the options in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i)
EPA Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60).
For coatings, you may use EPA Method 24 to determine the mass fraction of nonaqueous volatile
matter and use that value as a substitute for the mass fraction of VOC. As an alternative to using EPA Method 24, you may use ASTM D2369-20 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). For Method 24, the coating sample must be a 1-liter sample taken in a 1-liter container.
(ii)
Alternative method.
You may use an alternative test method for determining the mass fraction of VOC once the Administrator has approved it. You must follow the procedure in § 60.8(b)(3) to submit an alternative test method for approval.
(iii)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may rely on information other than that generated by the test methods specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, such as manufacturer's formulation data. If there is a disagreement between such information and results of a test conducted according to paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, then the test method results will take precedence, unless after consultation, you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement authority that the facility's data are correct.
(2)
Determine the density of each material used.
Determine the density of each material used during the compliance period from test results using ASTM D1475-13 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) or for powder coatings, test method A or test method B of ASTM D5965-02 (Reapproved 2013) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), or information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material. If there is disagreement between ASTM D1475-13 test results or ASTM D5965-02 (Reapproved 2013), Test Method A or Test Method B test results and the supplier's or manufacturer's information, the test results will take precedence unless after consultation, the facility demonstrates to the satisfaction of the enforcement authority that the supplier's or manufacturer's data are correct.
(3)
Determine the volume of each material used.
You must determine from company records on a monthly basis the volume of coating consumed, as received, and the mass of solvent used for thinning purposes.
(g)
Determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating.
You must determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during the compliance period by a test or by information provided by the supplier or the manufacturer of the material, as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. For electrodeposition primer operations, the volume fraction of solids must be determined for each material added to the tank or system during each month. If test results obtained according to paragraph (g)(1) of this section do not agree with the information obtained under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the test results will take precedence unless, after consultation, the facility demonstrates to the satisfaction of the enforcement authority that the facility's data are correct.
(1)
ASTM Method D2697-22 or ASTM Method D6093-97.
You may use ASTM D2697-22 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), or ASTM D6093-97 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), to determine the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. Divide the nonvolatile volume percent obtained with the methods by 100 to calculate volume fraction of coating solids.
(2)
Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.
You may obtain the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating from the supplier or manufacturer.
(h)
Determine the transfer efficiency for each coating.
You must determine the transfer efficiency for each non-electrodeposition prime coat coating, each guide coat coating and each topcoat coating using ASTM Method D5066-91 (Reapproved 2017), “Standard Test Method for Determination of the Transfer Efficiency Under Production Conditions for Spray Application of Automotive Paints—Weight Basis” (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), or the guidelines presented in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). You may conduct transfer efficiency testing on representative coatings and for representative spray booths as described in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of
Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). You may assume 100 percent transfer efficiency for electrodeposition primer coatings.
(i)
Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of applied coating solids before add-on controls.
(1) Calculate the mass of VOC used in each calendar month for each affected facility using Equation 1 of this section, where “n” is the total number of coatings used and “m” is the total number of VOC solvents used:
ER09MY23.001
Where:
M
o
= total mass of VOC in coatings as received (kilograms).
M
d
= total mass of VOC in dilution solvent (kilograms).
L
ci
= volume of each coating (i) consumed, as received (liters).
D
ci
= density of each coating (i) as received (kilograms per liter).
W
oi
= proportion of VOC by weight in each coating (i), as received.
L
dj
= volume of each type VOC dilution solvent (j) added to the coatings, as received (liters).
D
dj
= density of each type VOC dilution solvent (j) added to the coatings, as received (kilograms per liter).
[ΣL
dj
D
dj
will be zero if no VOC solvent is added to the coatings, as received.]
(2) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used in each calendar month for each affected facility using Equation 2 of this section, where “n” is the total number of coatings used:
ER09MY23.002
Where:
L
s
= volume of solids in coatings consumed (liters).
L
ci
= volume of each coating (i) consumed, as received (liters).
V
si
= proportion of solids by volume in each coating (i) as received.
(3) Calculate the transfer efficiency (T) for each surface coating operation according to paragraph (h) of this section.
(i) When more than one application method (l) is used on an individual surface coating operation, you must perform an analysis to determine an average transfer efficiency using Equation 3 of this section, where “n” is the total number of coatings used and “p” is the total number of application methods:
ER09MY23.003
Where:
T = overall transfer efficiency.
T
l
= transfer efficiency for application method (l).
V
si
= proportion of solids by volume in each coating (i) as received
ER09MY23.004
L
cil
= Volume of each coating (i) consumed by each application method (l), as received (liters).
L
s
= volume of solids in coatings consumed (liters).
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using Equation 4 of this section:
ER09MY23.005
Where:
G = volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids (kilograms per liter).
M
o
= total mass of VOC in coatings as received (kilograms).
M
d
= total mass of VOC in dilution solvent (kilograms).
L
s
= volume of solids in coatings consumed (liters).
T = overall transfer efficiency.
(5) Select the appropriate limit according to § 60.392a. If the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G), calculated on a calendar month basis, is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392a, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purpose of this subpart.
(j)
Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of applied coating solids after add-on controls.
You use the following procedures for each affected facility which uses a capture system and a control device that destroys VOC (
e.g.,
incinerator) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392a. Use the procedures in paragraph (j)(1) through (5) of this section to calculate volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids for each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances. For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance, you must use the procedures in paragraph (l) of this section.
(1) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility as described under § 60.393a(i)(4).
(2) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (N) emitted after the control device using Equation 5 of this section:
ER09MY23.006
Where:
N = volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids after the control device in units of kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids.
G = volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids (kilograms per liter).
CE = fraction of total VOC that is emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device.
DRE = VOC destruction or removal efficiency of the control device.
(3) You must use the procedures and test methods in section 60.397a to determine the emission capture system efficiency (CE) as part of the initial performance test.
(i) If you can justify to the Administrator's satisfaction that another method will give comparable results, the Administrator will approve its use on a case-by-case basis.
(ii) In subsequent months, you must use the most recently determined capture efficiency for the performance test.
(4) You must use the procedures and test methods in section 60.396a to determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency as part of the initial performance test.
(i) In subsequent months, you must use the most recently determined VOC destruction efficiency for the performance test.
(ii) If two or more add-on control devices are used for the same emission stream, you must measure emissions at the outlet of each device in accordance with § 60.396a(c). If there is more than one inlet or outlet to the add-on control device, you must calculate the total gaseous organic mass flow rate for each inlet and each outlet and then total all of the inlet emissions and total all of the outlet emissions in accordance with § 60.396a(d). The emission destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device is the average of the efficiencies determined in the three test runs. The destruction or removal efficiency determined using these data shall be applied to each affected facility served by the control device.
(5) Calculate the mass of VOC for each affected facility each calendar month for each period of time in which a deviation, including a deviation during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, from an emission limitation, an operating limit or any CMS requirement for the capture system or control device serving the controlled coating operation occurred. Except as provided in paragraph (m) of this section, for any period of time in which a deviation, including a deviation during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, from an emission limitation or operating limit or from any CMS requirement of the capture system or control device serving the controlled coating operation occurred, you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. During such a deviation you must assume the affected source was uncontrolled for the duration of the deviation using the equation in paragraph (i)(4) of this section.
(6) Adjust the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids emitted after the control device for each affected facility (N) during a calendar month for periods of deviation by adding the mass of VOC for the uncontrolled period of time according to paragraph (i)(5) of this section.
(7) If the adjusted volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device (N) calculated on a calendar month basis is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392a, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purposes of this subpart.
(k)
Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of applied coating solids after add-on recovery devices.
You must use the following procedures for each affected facility which uses a capture system and a control device that recovers the VOC (
e.g.,
carbon adsorber) other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct a liquid-liquid material balance to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392a.
(1) Calculate the mass of VOC (M
o
+ M
d
) used during each calendar month for each affected facility as described under paragraph (i) of this section.
(2) Calculate the total volume of coating solids (L
s
) used in each calendar month for each affected facility as described under paragraph (i) of this section.
(3) Calculate the mass of VOC recovered (M
r
) each calendar month for each
affected facility by the following equation:
M
r
= L
r
* D
r
Where:
M
r
= total mass of VOC recovered from an affected facility (kilograms).
L
r
= volume of VOC recovered from an affected facility (liters).
D
r
= density of VOC recovered from an affected facility (kilograms per liter).
(4) Calculate the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids emitted after the control device (N) during a calendar month using Equation 6 of this section:
ER09MY23.007
Where:
N = volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids after the control device in units of kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids.
M
o
= total mass of VOC in coatings as received (kilograms).
M
d
= total mass of VOC in dilution solvent (kilograms).
M
r
= total mass of VOC recovered from an affected facility (kilograms).
L
s
= volume of solids in coatings consumed (liters).
T = overall transfer efficiency.
(5) Adjust the volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids emitted after the recovery device for each affected facility (N) during a calendar month for periods of deviation by adding the mass of VOC for the uncontrolled periods of time according to paragraph (i)(6) of this section.
(6) If the adjusted volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied solids emitted after the control device (N) calculated on a calendar month basis is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392a, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test for the purposes of this subpart.
(l)
Calculate the collection and recovery efficiency for solvent recovery systems using liquid-liquid material balances.
You must use the following procedures for each affected facility which uses a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.392a.
(1) Calculate the mass of VOC emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system using a liquid-liquid material balance for each affected facility by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of VOC contained in the coatings and thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during each month. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each month as specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (6) of this section.
(2) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system each month. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.
(3) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the month based on measurement with the device required in paragraphs (l)(l) and (2) of this section.
(4) For each affected facility, determine the mass of VOC (Mo + Md) of each coating and thinner controlled by the solvent recovery system for each calendar month using the equation in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(5) Calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency (R
V
) for each affected facility using Equation 7 of this section:
ER09MY23.008
Where:
R
V
= Volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency of the solvent recovery system during the month, percent.
M
VR
= Mass of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system during the month, kg.
Vol
i
= Volume of coating, i, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
D
i
= Density of coating, i, kg per liter.
WV
c, i
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for coating, i, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating.
Vol
j
= Volume of thinner, j, used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.
D
j
= Density of thinner, j, kg per liter.
WV
t, j
= Mass fraction of volatile organic matter for thinner, j, kg volatile organic matter per kg thinner.
m = Number of different coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month.
n = Number of different thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month.
(6) For each affected facility, you may apply the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of VOC for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system for each calendar month.
(m)
Deviations.
You may request approval from the Administrator to use non-zero capture efficiencies and add-on control device efficiencies for any period of time in which a deviation, including a deviation during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, from an emission limitation, operating limit or any CMS requirement for the capture system or add-on control device serving a controlled coating operation occurred.
(1) If you have manually collected parameter data indicating that a capture system or add-on control device was operating normally during a CMS malfunction, a CMS out-of-control period, or associated repair, then these data may be used to support and document your request to use the normal capture efficiency or add-on control device efficiency for that period of deviation.
(2) If you have data indicating the actual performance of a capture system or add-on control device (
e.g.,
capture efficiency measured at a reduced flow rate or add-on control device efficiency measured at a reduced thermal oxidizer temperature) during a deviation, including a deviation during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, from an emission limitation or operating limit or from any CMS requirement for the capture system or add-on control device serving a controlled coating operation, then these data may be used to support and document your request to use these values for that period of deviation.
(3) You may recalculate the adjusted volume weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of applied coating solids after add-on controls in paragraph (j)(6) of this section, and the adjusted volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids emitted after the recovery device in paragraph (k)(4) of this section, based on Administrator approval of the non-zero capture efficiency and add-on control device efficiency values based on data provided in accordance with paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section.
(n)
No deviations.
If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, submit a statement as part of the compliance report that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the VOC emission rate for each compliance
period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 60.392a, you achieved the operating limits required by § 60.394a, and you achieved the work practice standards required by § 60.392a during each compliance period.
(o)
Recordkeeping.
You must maintain records as specified in § 60.395a.
§ 60.394a
Add-on control device operating limits and monitoring requirements.
During the performance tests required by § 60.393a, if you use an add-on control device(s) to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.392a(a) through (c), you must establish add-on control device operating limits required by § 60.392a(h) according to this section, unless approval has been received for alternative monitoring under § 60.13(i) as specified in § 60.392a(h).
(a)
Thermal oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limit according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test. This average combustion temperature is the minimum 3-hour average operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.
(b)
Catalytic oxidizers.
If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) or paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. The minimum 3-hour average operating limits for your catalytic oxidizer are the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer and 80 percent of the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer, except during periods of low production, the latter minimum operating limit is to maintain a positive temperature gradient across the catalyst bed. A low production period is when production is less than 80 percent of production rate during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer.
(3) As an alternative to monitoring the temperature difference across the catalyst bed, you may monitor the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer.
(4) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (
i.e.,
conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures. If problems are found during the catalyst activity test, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(ii) Monthly external inspection of the catalytic oxidizer system, including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjust the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures.
(iii) Annual internal inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found during the annual internal inspection of the catalyst, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations. If the catalyst bed is replaced and is not of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst, and is not consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations, then you must conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 60.396a. If a catalyst bed is replaced and the replacement catalyst is of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst, and is consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations, then a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency is not required and you may continue to use the previously established operating limits for that catalytic oxidizer.
(c)
Regenerative carbon adsorbers.
If your add-on control device is a regenerative carbon adsorber, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) You must monitor and record the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle and the carbon bed temperature after each carbon bed regeneration and cooling cycle for the regeneration cycle either immediately preceding or immediately following the performance test.
(2) The operating limits for your carbon adsorber are the minimum total desorbing gas mass flow recorded during the regeneration cycle and the maximum carbon bed temperature recorded after the cooling cycle.
(d)
Condensers.
If your add-on control device is a condenser, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.
(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature maintained during the performance test. This average condenser outlet gas temperature is the maximum 3-hour average operating limit for your condenser.
(e)
Concentrators.
If your add-on control device includes a concentrator, you must establish operating limits for the concentrator according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the desorption gas inlet temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test.
(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average desorption gas inlet temperature. The minimum operating limit for the concentrator is 8 degrees Celsius (15 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average desorption gas inlet temperature maintained during the performance test for that concentrator. You must keep the set point for the desorption gas inlet temperature no lower than 6 degrees Celsius (10 degrees Fahrenheit) below the lower of that set point during the performance test for that concentrator and the average desorption gas inlet temperature maintained during the performance test for that concentrator.
(f)
Emission capture systems.
For each capture device that is not part of a permanent total enclosure (PTE) that meets the criteria of § 60.397a and that is not capturing emissions from a downdraft spray booth or from a flash-off area or bake oven associated with a downdraft spray booth, establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in table 1 to this subpart.
(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by § 60.393a and described in § 60.397a, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate or the duct static pressure for each separate capture device in your
emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the test runs at a point in the duct between the capture device and the add-on control device inlet.
(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device, using all valid data. This average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device.
(g)
Monitoring requirements.
If you use an add-on control device(s) to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.392a(a) through (c), you must install, operate, and maintain each CMS specified in paragraphs (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section according to paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CMS specified in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section according to paragraphs (g)(3) through (5) of this section.
(1) The CMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CMS operation in 1 hour.
(2) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each successive 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation.
(3) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CMS.
(4) You must maintain the CMS at all times in accordance with § 60.11(d) and have readily available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.
(5) You must operate the CMS and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times that a controlled coating operation is operating in accordance with § 60.11(d).
(6) Startups and shutdowns are normal operation for this source category. Emissions from these activities are to be included when determining if the standards specified in § 60.392a(a) through (c) are being attained. You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits.
(7) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the CMS to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Except for periods of required quality assurance or control activities, any period during which the CMS fails to operate and record data continuously as required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section or generates data that cannot be included in calculating averages as specified in this paragraph (g)(7) constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.
(h)
Capture system bypass line.
You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section for each emission capture system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(1) You must monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism controlling the bypass line in a nondiverting position in such a way that the valve or closure mechanism cannot be opened without creating a record that the valve was opened. The method used to monitor or secure the valve or closure mechanism must meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i)
Flow control position indicator.
Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes and provides a record indicating whether the emissions are directed to the add-on control device or diverted from the add-on control device. The time of occurrence and flow control position must be recorded, as well as every time the flow direction is
changed. The flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the emissions away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(ii)
Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.
Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position, and the emissions are not diverted away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere.
(iii)
Valve closure monitoring.
Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed (nondiverting) position through monitoring of valve position at least once every 15 minutes. You must inspect the monitoring system at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.
(iv)
Automatic shutdown system.
Use an automatic shutdown system in which the coating operation is stopped when flow is diverted by the bypass line away from the add-on control device to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running. You must inspect the automatic shutdown system at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and shut down the coating operation.
(2) If any bypass line is opened, you must include a description of why the bypass line was opened and the length of time it remained open in the semiannual compliance reports required in § 60.395a.
(i)
Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.
If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used to treat desorbed concentrate streams from concentrators or carbon adsorbers), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.
(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor upstream of the catalyst bed. If you establish the operating parameters for a catalytic oxidizer under paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, you must also install a gas temperature monitor downstream of the catalyst bed. The temperature monitors must be in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed to measure the temperature difference across the bed. If you establish the operating parameters for a catalytic oxidizer under paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section, you need not install a gas temperature monitor downstream of the catalyst bed.
(3) For all thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (i)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device, unless approval has been received for alternative monitoring under § 60.13(i) as specified in § 60.392a(h). For the purposes of this paragraph (i)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.
(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.
(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a measurement sensitivity of 4 degrees Fahrenheit or 0.75 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.
(iii) Shield the temperature sensor system from electromagnetic interference and chemical contaminants.
(iv) The gas temperature sensor must be capable of recording the temperature continuously. If a gas temperature chart recorder is used, it must have a measurement sensitivity in the minor division of at least 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
(v) Perform an electronic calibration at least semiannually according to the procedures in the manufacturer's owner's manual. Following the electronic calibration, you must conduct a temperature sensor validation check in which a second or redundant temperature sensor placed nearby the process temperature sensor must yield a reading within 30 degrees Fahrenheit of the process temperature sensor reading.
(vi) Conduct calibration and validation checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range or install a new temperature sensor.
(vii) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity and electrical connections for continuity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.
(j)
Regenerative carbon adsorbers.
If you are using a regenerative carbon adsorber as an add-on control device, you must monitor the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle, the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and cooling cycle and comply with paragraphs (g)(3) through (5) and (j)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The regeneration desorbing gas mass flow monitor must be an integrating device having a measurement sensitivity of plus or minus 10 percent, capable of recording the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow for each regeneration cycle.
(2) The carbon bed temperature monitor must have a measurement sensitivity of 1 percent of the temperature (as expressed in degrees Fahrenheit) recorded or 1 degree Fahrenheit, whichever is greater, and must be capable of recording the temperature within 15 minutes of completing any carbon bed cooling cycle.
(k)
Condensers.
If you are using a condenser, you must monitor the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature and comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (k)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The gas temperature monitor must have a measurement sensitivity of 1 percent of the temperature (expressed in degrees Fahrenheit) recorded or 1 degree Fahrenheit, whichever is greater.
(2) The temperature monitor must provide a gas temperature record at least once every 15 minutes.
(l)
Concentrators.
If you are using a concentrator, such as a zeolite wheel or rotary carbon bed concentrator, you must install a temperature monitor in the desorption gas stream. The temperature monitor must meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (i)(3) of this section.
(m)
Emission capture systems.
The capture system monitoring system must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For each flow measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (m)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Locate a flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct from each capture device in the emission capture system to the add-on control device.
(ii) Reduce swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.
(iii) Conduct a flow sensor calibration check at least semiannually.
(iv) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, and mechanical connections for leakage.
(2) For each pressure drop measurement device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) and (m)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Locate the pressure tap(s) in a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each opening you are monitoring.
(ii) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.
(iii) Using an inclined manometer with a measurement sensitivity of 0.0002 inches of water, check gauge calibration quarterly and transducer calibration monthly.
(iv) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
(v) At least monthly, inspect components for integrity, electrical connections for continuity, pressure taps for plugging and mechanical connections for leakage.
§ 60.395a
Notifications, reports, and records.
(a)
Notifications.
You must submit all notifications in §§ 60.7, 60.8, and 60.13 that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections and in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) A notification of the date construction (or reconstruction as defined under § 60.15) of an affected facility is commenced no later than 30 days after such date.
(2) A notification of the actual date of initial startup of an affected facility within 15 days after such date.
(3) A notification of any physical or operational change to an existing facility which may increase the VOC emission rate within 60 days or as soon as practicable before the change is commenced.
(4) A notification of the date upon which demonstration of the CMS performance commences in accordance with § 60.13(c) not less than 30 days prior to such date.
(5) A notification of any performance test at least 30 days prior to afford the Administrator (or delegated State or local agency) the opportunity to have an observer present.
(b)
Initial performance test report.
If you use add-on control devices, you must submit reports of performance test results for emission capture systems and add-on control devices. Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but not later than 180 days after initial startup of such facility, you are required to conduct performance test(s) and furnish the Administrator a report of the results of such performance test(s) in accordance with § 60.8(a). You are also required to conduct transfer efficiency test(s) and submit reports of the results of transfer efficiency tests and furnish the Administrator a report of the results of such transfer efficiency tests. The initial performance test report must include the information specified in § 60.8.
(c)
Subsequent performance test reports.
You must conduct periodic performance tests of add-on control devices in accordance with § 60.393a(b) within five years of the previous performance test and at such other times as may be required by the Administrator under section 114 of the Act in accordance with § 60.8(a). You must furnish the Administrator a written report of the results of such performance test(s) within 60 days of completing the performance test. Periodic testing of transfer efficiency and capture efficiency are not required.
(d)
Compliance reports.
Following the initial performance test, you must submit a quarterly or semiannual compliance report for each affected source required by § 60.8 according to the requirements of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. You must identify, record, and submit a report to the Administrator every calendar quarter each instance a deviation occurred from the emission limits, operating limits, or work practices in §§ 60.392a, 60.393a, and 60.394a, that apply to you. If no such instances have occurred during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually. For each affected source that is subject to 40 CFR part 70 or 71 permitting regulations and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual compliance reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the semiannual compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established.
(e)
Initial compliance report.
You must include the data outlined in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section in the initial compliance report required by § 60.8 and the information required by pargraphs (f) through (h) of this section.
(1) The volume weighted average mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids for each affected facility.
(2) Where compliance is achieved through the use of a capture or control device, include the following additional data in the initial performance test report required by § 60.8(a) specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (v) of this section:
(i) The data collected to establish the operating limits for the appropriate capture or control device required as by § 60.394a and table 1 to this subpart;
(ii) The total mass of VOC per volume of applied coating solids before and after the control device as required by § 60.396a;
(iii) The destruction efficiency of the control device used to attain compliance with the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392a(a);
(iv) The capture efficiency as required by § 60.397a and a description of the method used to establish the capture efficiency for the affected facility; and
(v) The transfer efficiency test results and a description of the method
used to establish the transfer efficiency for the affected facility.
(f)
Compliance report content.
Compliance reports must contain the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section and paragraph (g) that are applicable to your affected source.
(1) Company name and address.
(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.
(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(4) Identification of the affected source.
(g)
No deviations.
If there were no deviations from the emission limits, work practices, or operating limits in §§ 60.392a and 60.394a, that apply to you, the compliance report must include a statement that there were no deviations from the applicable emission limitations during the reporting period. If you used control devices to comply with the emission limits, and there were no periods during which the CMS were out of control as specified in § 60.394a(g) the compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CMS were out of control during the reporting period.
(h)
Deviations.
If there was a deviation from the applicable emission limits in § 60.392a or the applicable operating limit(s) in table 1 to this subpart or the work practice standards in § 60.392a, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (h)(1) through (15) of this section.
(1) The beginning and ending dates of each month during which the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) for the affected source exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 60.392a.
(2) The calculation used to determine the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) in accordance with § 60.395a. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations, for example information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.
(3) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices used to control emissions from these operations started and stopped.
(4) A brief description of the CMS.
(5) The date of the latest CMS certification or audit.
(6) For each instance that the CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CMS being inoperative; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(7) For each instance that the CMS was malfunctioning or out-of-control, as specified in § 60.394a(g)(6) or (7), the date, time, and duration that the CMS was malfunctioning or out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CMS malfunctioning or being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.
(8) The date, time, and duration of each deviation from an operating limit in table 1 to this subpart; and the date, time, and duration of each bypass of an add-on control device.
(9) A summary of the total duration and the percent of the total source operating time of the deviations from each operating limit in table 1 to this subpart and the bypass of each add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period.
(10) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from each operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of each add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.
(11) A summary of the total duration and the percent of the total source operating time of the downtime for each CMS during the semiannual reporting period.
(12) A description of any changes in the CMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control devices since the last semiannual reporting period.
(13) For deviations from the work practice standards, the number of deviations, and, for each deviation, the information in paragraphs (h)(13)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) A description of the deviation, the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d).
(ii) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(14) For deviations from an emission limitation in § 60.392a or operating limit in Table 1 of this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
(15) For each deviation from an emission limitation in § 60.392a, or operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of VOC emitted over any emission limit in § 60.392a, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(i)
Electronic reporting of performance test data.
Where compliance is achieved through the use of add-on control devices, the owner or operator shall submit control device performance test results for initial and subsequent performance tests according to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section within 60 days of completing each performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Supported test methods.
Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test.
(i) Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
).
(ii) The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, the owner or operator may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Unsupported test methods.
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
(i) The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(ii) Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3)
Confidential business information (CBI).
Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Any information submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Under CAA section 114(c), emissions data are not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. Owners or operators that assert a CBI claim for any information submitted under paragraph (i)(1) or (i)(2) of this section, must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Owners or operators can submit CBI according to one of the two procedures in paragraph (i)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission.
(i) If sending CBI through the postal service, submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Owners or operators are required to mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations Sector Lead, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.
(ii) The EPA preferred method for CBI submittal is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or other online file sharing services (
e.g.,
Dropbox, OneDrive, Google Drive). Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described above, should be clearly identified as CBI and note Attention: Automobile and Light Duty Truck Surface Coating Operations Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, you can email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(j)
Electronic submittal of reports.
The owner or operator shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section following the procedures specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section. In addition to the information required in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, owners or operators are required to report excess emissions and a monitoring systems performance report and a summary report to the Administrator according to § 60.7(c) and (d). Owners or operators are required by § 60.7(c) and (d) to report the date, time, cause, and duration of each exceedance of the applicable emission limit specified in § 60.392a(a), any malfunction of the air pollution control equipment, and any periods during which the CMS or monitoring device is inoperative, malfunctioning, or out-of-control. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
(1)
Effective date.
On and after November 6, 2023, or once the reporting template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1-year, whichever date is later, owners or operators must use the appropriate spreadsheet template on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for this subpart. The date the reporting template for this subpart becomes available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method by which the report is submitted. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Any information submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. If you claim CBI, submit the report following the procedure described in paragraph (i)(3) of this section. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to CEDRI as described in this paragraph.
(2)
System outage.
Owner or operators that are required to submit a report electronically through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, owners or operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(ii) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(iii) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(iv) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(v) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(A) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed, and the system was unavailable;
(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(C) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(vi) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(vii) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(3)
Force majeure.
Owner or operators that are required to submit a report electronically through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (j)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(ii) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(iii) You must provide to the Administrator:
(A) A written description of the force majeure event;
(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(C) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(iv) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(k)
Recordkeeping.
You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (12) of this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard.
(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, and the documentation supporting each notification and report.
(2) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, such as manufacturer's formulation data, or test data used to determine the mass fraction of VOC, the density and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating, and the mass fraction of VOC and the density for each thinner. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of VOC, density, or volume fraction of coating solids, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. If you use the results of an analysis conducted by an outside testing lab, you must keep a copy of the test report. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.
(3) For each month, the records specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) For each coating used for the affected source, a record of the volume used in each month, the mass fraction VOC content, the density, and the volume fraction of solids.
(ii) For each thinner used in coating operations for the affected source, a record of the volume used in each
month, the mass fraction VOC content, and the density.
(iii) A record of the calculation of the VOC emission rate for the affected source for each month. This record must include all raw data, algorithms, and intermediate calculations. If the guidelines presented in the “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), are used, you must keep records of all data input to this protocol. If these data are maintained as electronic files, the electronic files, as well as any paper copies must be maintained. These data must be provided to the permitting authority on request on paper, and in (if calculations are done electronically) electronic form.
(4) For each deviation from an emission limitation, operating limit, or work practice plan reported under paragraph (h) of this section, a record of the information specified in paragraphs (4)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.
(i) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, and for each deviation, the information as reported under paragraph (h) of this section.
(ii) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under paragraph (h) of this section.
(iii) An estimate of the quantity of VOC emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 60.392a or any applicable operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under paragraph (h) of this section.
(iv) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(5) The records required by § 60.7(b) and (c) related to SSM.
(6) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 60.397a(a).
(7) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in § 60.397a(b) through (g), including the records specified in paragraphs (k)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section that apply to you.
(i) Records for a liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure. Records of the mass of total VOC, as measured by Method 204A or F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, for each material used in the coating operation, and the total VOC for all materials used during each capture efficiency test run, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of VOC emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(ii) Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure. Records of the mass of VOC emissions captured by the emission capture system, as measured by Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of VOC emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run, as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
(iii) Records for panel tests. Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using a panel test as described in § 60.397a(e) and (g), including a copy of the test report and
calculations performed to convert the panel test results to percent capture efficiency values.
(iv) Records for an alternative protocol. Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol, as specified in § 60.397a(f), if applicable.
(8) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device VOC destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 60.393a.
(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to § 60.393a.
(ii) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.
(9) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 60.394a and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in table 1 to this subpart.
(10) Records of the data and calculations you used to determine the transfer efficiency for guide coat and topcoat coating operations pursuant to § 60.393a(h).
(11) A record of the work practice plans required by § 60.392a(b) and (c) and documentation that you are implementing the plans on a continuous basis. Appropriate documentation may include operational and maintenance records, records of documented inspections, and records of internal audits.
(12) For each add-on control device and for each CMS, a copy of the equipment operating instructions must be maintained on-site for the life of the equipment in a location readily available to plant operators and inspectors. You may prepare your own equipment operating instructions, or they may be provided to you by the equipment supplier or other third party.
(l)
Record form and retention time.
(1) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (k)(12) of this section, you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (k)(12) of this section, you must keep each record on site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record. You may keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.
§ 60.396a
Add-on control device destruction efficiency.
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 60.393a(j)(4), except as provided in § 60.8. You must conduct three test runs as specified in §§ 60.8(f) and 60.394a, and each test run must last at least 1 hour.
(a) For all types of add-on control devices, use the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Use EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to select sampling sites and velocity traverse points.
(2) Use EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F of appendix A-1, or 2G of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to measure gas volumetric flow rate.
(3) Use EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight. The ASME/ANSI PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17), may be used as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.
(4) Use EPA Method 4 of appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60 to determine stack gas moisture.
(5) Methods for determining gas volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and stack gas moisture must be performed, as applicable, during each test run.
(b) Measure total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon in the effluent gas leaving each stack not equipped with a control device and at the inlet and outlet of the add-on control device simultaneously, using either EPA Method 25 or 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. You must use the same method for both the inlet and outlet measurements.
(1) Use Method 25 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be more than 50 parts per million by volume (ppmv) at the control device outlet.
(2) Use Method 25A if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be 50 ppmv or less at the control device outlet.
(3) Use Method 25A if the add-control device is not an oxidizer.
(4) You may use EPA Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60 to subtract methane emissions from measured total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon.
(5) For Method 25 and 25A, the sampling time for each of three runs must be at least one hour. The minimum sample volume must be 0.003 dscm except that shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other factors, may be approved by the Administrator. The Administrator will approve the sampling of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis if you can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the testing of representative stacks would yield results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks.
(c) If two or more add-on control devices are used for the same emission stream, then you must measure emissions at the outlet of each device. For example, if one add-on control device is a concentrator with an outlet for the high-volume, dilute stream that has been treated by the concentrator, and a second add-on control device is an oxidizer with an outlet for the low-volume, concentrated stream that is treated with the oxidizer, you must measure emissions at the outlet of the oxidizer and the high-volume dilute stream outlet of the concentrator.
(d) For each test run, determine the total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rates (M
f
) for the inlet and the outlet of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section. If there is more than one inlet or outlet to the add-on control device, you must calculate the total gaseous organic mass flow rate using Equation 1 of this section for each inlet and each outlet and then total all of the inlet emissions and total all of the outlet emissions.
ER09MY23.009
Where:
M
f
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate, kg per hour (kg/h).
C
c
= Concentration of organic compounds as carbon in the vent gas, as determined by Method 25 or Method 25A, ppmv, dry basis.
Q
sd
= Volumetric flow rate of gases entering or exiting the add-on control device, as determined by Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G, dry standard cubic meters per hour (dscm/h). 0.0416 = Conversion factor for molar volume, kg-moles per cubic meter (mol/m
3
) (@293 Kelvin (K) and 760 millimeters of mercury (mmHg)).
(e) For each test run, determine the add-on control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency using Equation 2 of this section:
ER09MY23.010
Where:
DRE = Organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device, percent.
M
fi
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the inlet(s) to the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
M
fo
= Total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rate at the outlet(s) of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section, kg/h.
(f) Determine the emission destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device as the average of the efficiencies determined in the three test runs and calculated in Equation 2 of this section.
§ 60.397a
Emission capture system efficiency.
You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine capture efficiency as part of the performance test required by § 60.393a. For purposes of this subpart, a spray booth air seal is not considered a natural draft opening in a PTE or a temporary total enclosure provided you demonstrate that the direction of air movement across the interface between the spray booth air seal and the spray booth is into the spray booth. For purposes of this subpart, a bake oven air seal is not considered a natural draft opening in a PTE or a temporary total enclosure provided you demonstrate that the direction of air movement across the interface between the bake oven air seal and the bake oven is into the bake oven. You may use lightweight strips of fabric or paper, or smoke tubes to make such demonstrations as part of showing that your capture system is a PTE or conducting a capture efficiency test using a temporary total enclosure. You cannot count air flowing from a spray booth air seal into a spray booth as air flowing through a natural draft opening into a PTE or into a temporary total enclosure unless you elect to treat that spray booth air seal as a natural draft opening. You cannot count air flowing from a bake oven air seal into a bake oven as air flowing through a natural draft opening into a PTE or into a temporary total enclosure unless you elect to treat that bake oven air seal as a natural draft opening.
(a)
Assuming 100 percent capture efficiency.
You may assume the capture system efficiency is 100 percent if both of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are met:
(1) The capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and directs all the exhaust gases from the enclosure to an add-on control device.
(2) All coatings and thinners used in the coating operation are applied within the capture system, and coating solvent flash-off and coating curing and drying occurs within the capture system. For example, this criterion is not met if parts enter the open shop environment when being moved between a spray booth and a curing oven.
(b)
Measuring capture efficiency.
If the capture system does not meet both of the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, then you must use one of the five procedures described in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section to measure capture efficiency. For the protocols in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the capture efficiency measurement must consist of three test runs. Each test run must be at least 3 hours duration or the length of a production run, whichever is longer, up to 8 hours. For the purposes of this test, a production run means the time required for a single part to go from the beginning to the end of production, which includes surface preparation activities and drying or curing time.
(c)
Liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure.
The liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol compares the mass of liquid VOC in materials used in the coating operation to the mass of
VOC emissions not captured by the emission capture system. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the liquid-to-uncaptured-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings and thinners are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and thinners subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204A or F of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to determine the mass fraction of VOC liquid input from each coating and thinner used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run.
(3) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the total mass of VOC liquid input (VOC
used
) from all the coatings and thinners used in the coating operation during each capture efficiency test run.
ER09MY23.011
Where:
VOC
i
= Mass fraction of VOC in coating or thinner, i, used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg VOC per kg material.
Vol
i
= Total volume of coating or thinner, i, used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, liters.
D
i
= Density of coating or thinner, i, kg material per liter material.
n = Number of different coatings and thinners used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run.
(4) Use Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of VOC emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run.
(i) Use Method 204D if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(5) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system using Equation 2 of this section:
ER09MY23.012
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
VOC
used
= Total mass of VOC liquid input used in the coating operation during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
VOC
uncaptured
= Total mass of VOC that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total
enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(6) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(d)
Gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.
The gas-to-gas protocol compares the mass of VOC emissions captured by the emission capture system to the mass of VOC emissions not captured. Use a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure and the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section to measure emission capture system efficiency using the gas-to-gas protocol.
(1) Either use a building enclosure or construct an enclosure around the coating operation where coatings and thinners are applied, and all areas where emissions from these applied coatings and thinners subsequently occur, such as flash-off, curing, and drying areas. The areas of the coating operation where capture devices collect emissions generated by the coating operation for routing to an add-on control device, such as the entrance and exit areas of an oven or a spray booth, must also be inside the enclosure. The enclosure must meet the applicable definition of a temporary total enclosure or building enclosure in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51.
(2) Use Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of VOC emissions captured by the emission capture system during each capture efficiency test run as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device.
(i) The sampling points for the Method 204B or C measurement must be upstream from the add-on control device and must represent total emissions routed from the capture system and entering the add-on control device.
(ii) If multiple emission streams from the capture system enter the add-on control device without a single common duct, then the emissions entering the add-on control device must be simultaneously or sequentially measured in each duct, and the total emissions entering the add-on control device must be determined.
(3) Use Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 to measure the total mass, kg, of VOC emissions that are not captured by the emission capture system; they are measured as they exit the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run. To make the measurement, substitute VOC for each occurrence of the term VOC in the methods.
(i) Use Method 204D if the enclosure is a temporary total enclosure.
(ii) Use Method 204E if the enclosure is a building enclosure. During the capture efficiency measurement, all organic compound emitting operations inside the building enclosure, other than the coating operation for which capture efficiency is being determined, must be shut down, but all fans and blowers must be operating normally.
(4) For each capture efficiency test run, determine the percent capture efficiency of the emission capture system using Equation 3 of this section:
ER09MY23.013
Where:
CE = Capture efficiency of the emission capture system vented to the add-on control device, percent.
VOC
captured
= Total mass of VOC captured by the emission capture system as measured at the inlet to the add-on control device during the emission capture efficiency test run, kg.
VOC
uncaptured
= Total mass of VOC that is not captured by the emission capture system and that exits from the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during the capture efficiency test run, kg.
(5) Determine the capture efficiency of the emission capture system as the average of the capture efficiencies measured in the three test runs.
(e)
Panel testing to determine the capture efficiency of flash-off or bake oven emissions.
You may conduct panel testing to determine the capture efficiency of flash-off or bake oven emissions using ASTM Method D5087-02 (Reapproved 2021), “Standard Test Method for Determining Amount of Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Released from Solventborne Automotive Coatings and Available for Removal in a VOC Control Device (Abatement)” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17), ASTM Method D6266-00a (Reapproved 2017), “Test Method for Determining the Amount of Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Released from Waterborne Automotive Coatings and Available for Removal in a VOC Control Device (Abatement)” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17), or the guidelines presented in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17). You may conduct panel testing on representative coatings as described in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
(1) Calculate the volume of coating solids deposited per volume of coating used for coating, i, or the composite volume of coating solids deposited per volume of coating used for the group of coatings including coating, i, used during the month in the spray booth(s) preceding the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted using Equation 4 of this section:
ER09MY23.014
Where:
V
sdep, i
= Volume of coating solids deposited per volume of coating used for coating, i, or composite volume of coating solids deposited per volume of coating used for the group of coatings including coating, i, in the spray booth(s) preceding the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted, liter of coating solids deposited per liter of coating used.
V
s, i
= Volume fraction of coating solids for coating, i, or average volume fraction of coating solids for the group of coatings including coating, i, liter coating solids per liter coating, determined according to § 60.393a(g).
TE
c, i
= Transfer efficiency of coating, i, or average transfer efficiency for the group of coatings including coating, i, in the spray booth(s) for the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted determined according to § 60.393a(h), expressed as a decimal, for example 60 percent must be expressed as 0.60. (Transfer efficiency also may be determined by testing representative coatings. The same coating groupings may be appropriate for both transfer efficiency testing and panel testing. In this case, all of the coatings in a panel test grouping would have the same transfer efficiency.)
(2) Calculate the mass of VOC per volume of coating for coating, i, or the composite mass of VOC per volume of coating for the group of coatings including coating, i, used during the month in the spray booth(s) preceding the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted, kg, using Equation 5 of this section:
ER09MY23.015
Where:
VOC
i
= Mass of VOC per volume of coating for coating, i, or composite mass of VOC per volume of coating for the group of coatings including coating, i, used during the month in the spray booth(s) preceding the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted, kg VOC per liter coating.
D
c,i
= Density of coating, i, or average density of the group of coatings, including coating, i, kg coating per liter coating, density determined according to § 60.393a(f)(2).
Wvoc
c,i
= Mass fraction of VOC in coating, i, or average mass fraction of VOC for the group of coatings, including coating, i, kg VOC per kg coating, determined by EPA Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60) or the guidelines for combining analytical VOC content and formulation solvent content presented in Section 9 of “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat, EPA-453/R-08-002” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
(3) As an alternative, you may choose to express the results of your panel tests in units of mass of VOC per mass of coating solids deposited and convert such results to a percent using Equation 7 of this section. If you panel test representative coatings, then you may convert the panel test result for each representative coating either to a unique percent capture efficiency for each coating grouped with that representative coating by using coating specific values for the mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used, mass fraction VOC, transfer efficiency, and mass fraction solids in Equations 7 and 8 of this section; or to a composite percent capture efficiency for the group of coatings by using composite values for the group of coatings for the mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used and average values for the mass of VOC per volume of coating, average values for the group of coatings for mass fraction VOC, transfer efficiency, and mass fraction solids in Equations 7 and 8 of this section. If you panel test each coating, then you must convert the panel test result for each coating to a unique percent capture efficiency for that coating by using coating specific values for the mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used, mass fraction VOC, transfer efficiency, and mass fraction solids in Equations 7 and 8 of this section. Panel test results expressed in units of mass of VOC per mass of coating solids deposited must be converted to percent capture efficiency using Equation 6 of this section:
ER09MY23.016
Where:
CE
i
= Capture efficiency for coating, i, or for the group of coatings including coating, i, for the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted, percent.
P
m,i
= Panel test result for coating, i, or for the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test, kg of VOC per kg of coating solids deposited.
W
sdep,i
= Mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used for coating, i, or composite mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used for the group of coatings, including coating, i, in the spray booth(s) preceding the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted, kg of solids deposited per kg of coating used, from Equation 8 of this section.
Wvoc
c,i
= Mass fraction of VOC in coating, i, or average mass fraction of VOC for the group of coatings, including coating, i, kg VOC per kg coating, determined by EPA Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60) or the guidelines for combining analytical VOC content and formulation solvent content presented in Section 9 of “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat, EPA-453/R-08-002” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
(4) Calculate the mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used for each coating or the composite mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used for each group of coatings
used during the month in the spray booth(s) preceding the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted using Equation 7 of this section:
ER09MY23.017
Where:
W
sdep, i
= Mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used for coating, i, or composite mass of coating solids deposited per mass of coating used for the group of coatings including coating, i, in the spray booth(s) preceding the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted, kg coating solids deposited per kg coating used.
W
s, i
= Mass fraction of coating solids for coating, i, or average mass fraction of coating solids for the group of coatings including coating, i, kg coating solids per kg coating, determined by EPA Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60) or the guidelines for combining analytical VOC content and formulation solvent content presented in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat, EPA-453/R-08-002” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
TE
c, i
= Transfer efficiency of coating, i, or average transfer efficiency for the group of coatings including coating, i, in the spray booth(s) for the flash-off area or bake oven for which the panel test is conducted determined according to § 60.393a(h), expressed as a decimal, for example 60 percent must be expressed as 0.60. (Transfer efficiency also may be determined by testing representative coatings. The same coating groupings may be appropriate used for both transfer efficiency testing and panel testing. In this case, all of the coatings in a panel test grouping would have the same transfer efficiency.)
(f)
Alternative capture efficiency procedure.
As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (c) through (e) and (g) of this section, you may determine capture efficiency using any other capture efficiency protocol and test methods that satisfy the criteria of either the Data Quality Objective (DQO) or Lower Confidence Limit (LCL) approach as described in appendix A to subpart KK of 40 CFR part 63.
(g)
Panel testing to determine the capture efficiency of spray booth emissions from solvent-borne coatings.
You may conduct panel testing to determine the capture efficiency of spray booth emissions from solvent-borne coatings using the procedure in appendix A to this subpart.
Pt. 60, Subpt. MMa, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart MMa of Part 60—Operating Limits for Capture Systems and Add-On Control Devices
[If you are required to comply with operating limits by § 60.392a(g), you must comply with the applicable operating limits in the following table.]
For the following device . . .
You must meet the following operating limit . . .
And you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit by . . .
1. Thermal oxidizer
a. The average combustion temperature in any 3-hour period must not fall below the combustion temperature limit established according to § 60.394a(a)
i. Collecting the combustion temperature data according to § 60.394a(i);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average combustion temperature at or above the temperature limit.
2. Catalytic oxidizer
a. The average temperature measured just before the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 60.394a(b); and either
i. Collecting the temperature data temperature according to § 60.394a(i));
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average temperature before the catalyst bed at or above the temperature limit.
b. Ensure that the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed in any 3-hour period does not fall below the temperature difference limit established according to § 60.394a(b)(2); or
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 60.394a(i);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average temperature difference at or above the temperature difference limit; or
c. Develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan according to § 60.394a(b)(4)
i. Maintaining an up-to-date inspection and maintenance plan, records of annual catalyst activity checks, records of monthly inspections of the oxidizer system, and records of the annual internal inspections of the catalyst bed. If a problem is discovered during a monthly or annual inspection required by § 60.394a(b)(4), you must take corrective action as soon as practicable consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.
3. Regenerative carbon adsorber
a. The total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each carbon bed regeneration cycle must not fall below the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow limit established according to § 60.394a(c)
b. The temperature of the carbon bed after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle must not exceed the carbon bed temperature limit established according to § 60.394a(c)
i. Measuring the total regeneration desorbing gas (
e.g.,
steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle according to § 60.394a(j); and
ii. Maintaining the total regeneration desorbing gas mass flow at or above the mass flow limit.
i. Measuring the temperature of the carbon bed after completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle according to § 60.394a(j); and
ii. Operating the carbon beds such that each carbon bed is not returned to service until completing each regeneration and any cooling cycle until the recorded temperature of the carbon bed is at or below the temperature limit.
4. Condenser
a. The average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature in any 3-hour period must not exceed the temperature limit established according to § 60.394a(d)
i. Collecting the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature according to § 60.394a(k);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average gas temperature at the outlet at or below the temperature limit.
5. Concentrators, including zeolite wheels and rotary carbon adsorbers
a. The average desorption gas inlet temperature in any 3-hour period must not fall below the limit established according to § 60.394a(e)
i. Collecting the temperature data according to § 60.394a(l);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. maintaining the 3-hour average temperature at or above the temperature limit.
6. Emission capture system that is a PTE
a. The direction of the air flow at all times must be into the enclosure; and either
b. The average facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings in the enclosure must be at least 200 feet per minute; or
c. The pressure drop across the enclosure must be at least 0.007 inch water, as established in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51
i. Collecting the direction of air flow, and either the facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings according to § 60.394a(m)(1) or the pressure drop across the enclosure according to § 60.394a(m)(2); and
ii. Maintaining the facial velocity of air flow through all natural draft openings or the pressure drop at or above the facial velocity limit or pressure drop limit, and maintaining the direction of air flow into the enclosure at all times.
7. Emission capture system that is not a PTE
a. The average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure in each duct between a capture device and add-on control device inlet in any 3-hour period must not fall below the average volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit established for that capture device according to § 60.394a(f). This applies only to capture devices that are not part of a PTE that meets the criteria of § 60.397a(a) and that are not capturing emissions from a downdraft spray booth or from a flashoff area or bake oven associated with a downdraft spray booth
i. Collecting the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device according to § 60.394a(m);
ii. Reducing the data to 3-hour block averages; and
iii. Maintaining the 3-hour average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for each capture device at or above the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure limit.
Pt. 60, Subpt. MMa, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart MMa of Part 60—Determination of Capture Efficiency of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Spray Booth Emissions From Solvent-Borne Coatings Using Panel Testing
1.0 Applicability, Principle, and Summary of Procedure.
1.1 Applicability.
This procedure applies to the determination of capture efficiency of automobile and light-duty truck spray booth emissions from solvent-borne coatings using panel testing. This procedure can be used to determine capture efficiency for partially controlled spray booths (
e.g.,
automated spray zones controlled and manual spray zones not controlled) and for fully controlled spray booths.
1.2 Principle.
1.2.1 The volatile organic compounds (VOC) associated with the coating solids deposited on a part (or panel) in a controlled spray booth zone (or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones) partition themselves between the VOC that volatilize in the controlled spray booth zone (principally between the spray gun and the part) and the VOC that remain on the part (or panel) when the part (or panel) leaves the controlled spray booth zone. For solvent-borne coatings essentially all of the VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on a part (or panel) in a controlled spray booth zone that volatilize in the controlled spray booth zone pass through the waterwash and are exhausted from the controlled spray booth zone to the control device.
1.2.2 The VOC associated with the overspray coating solids in a controlled spray booth zone partition themselves between the VOC that volatilize in the controlled spray booth zone and the VOC that are still tied to the overspray coating solids when the overspray coating solids hit the waterwash. For solvent-borne coatings almost all of the VOC associated with the overspray coating solids that volatilize in the controlled spray booth zone pass through the waterwash and are exhausted from the controlled spray booth zone to the control device. The exact fate of the VOC still tied to the overspray coating solids when the overspray coating solids hit the waterwash is unknown. This procedure assumes that none of the VOC still tied to the overspray coating solids when the overspray coating solids hit the waterwash are captured and delivered to the control device. Much of this VOC may become entrained in the water along with the overspray coating solids. Most of the VOC that become entrained in the water along with the overspray coating solids leave the water, but the point at which this VOC leave the water is unknown. Some of the VOC still tied to the overspray coating solids when the overspray coating solids hit the waterwash may pass through the waterwash and be exhausted from the controlled spray booth zone to the control device.
1.2.3 This procedure assumes that the portion of the VOC associated with the overspray coating solids in a controlled spray booth zone that volatilizes in the controlled spray booth zone, passes through the waterwash and is exhausted from the controlled spray booth zone to the control device is equal to the portion of the VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on a part (or panel) in that controlled spray booth zone that volatilizes in the controlled spray booth zone, passes through the waterwash, and is exhausted from the controlled spray booth zone to the control device. This assumption is equivalent to treating all of the coating solids sprayed in the controlled spray booth zone as if they are deposited coating solids (
i.e.,
assuming 100 percent
transfer efficiency) for purposes of using a panel test to determine spray booth capture efficiency.
1.2.4 This is a conservative (low) assumption for the portion of the VOC associated with the overspray coating solids in a controlled spray booth zone that volatilizes in the controlled spray booth zone. Thus, this assumption results in an underestimate of conservative capture efficiency. The overspray coating solids have more travel time and distance from the spray gun to the waterwash than the deposited coating solids have between the spray gun and the part (or panel). Therefore, the portion of the VOC associated with the overspray coating solids in a controlled spray booth zone that volatilizes in the controlled spray booth zone should be greater than the portion of the VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on a part (or panel) in that controlled spray booth zone that volatilizes in that controlled spray booth zone.

# 1.3 Summary of Procedure
1.3.1 A panel test is performed to determine the mass of VOC that remains on the panel when the panel leaves a controlled spray booth zone. The total mass of VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on the panel is calculated.
1.3.2 The percent of the total VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on the panel in the controlled spray booth zone that remains on the panel when the panel leaves the controlled section of the spray booth is then calculated from the ratio of the two previously determined masses. The percent of the total VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on the panel in the controlled spray booth zone that is captured and delivered to the control device equals 100 minus this percentage. (The mass of VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on the panel which is volatilized and captured in the controlled spray booth zone equals the difference between the total mass of VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on the panel and the mass of VOC remaining with the coating solids deposited on the panel when the panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone.)
1.3.3 The percent of the total VOC associated with the coating sprayed in the controlled spray booth zone that is captured and delivered to the control device is assumed to be equal to the percent of the total VOC associated with the coating solids deposited on the panel in the controlled spray booth zone that is captured and delivered to the control device. The percent of the total VOC associated with the coating sprayed in the entire spray booth that is captured and delivered to the control device can be calculated by multiplying the percent of the total VOC associated with the coating sprayed in the controlled spray booth zone that is captured and delivered to the control device by the fraction of coating sprayed in the spray booth that is sprayed in the controlled spray booth zone.

# 2.0 Procedure
2.1 You may conduct panel testing to determine the capture efficiency of spray booth emissions. You must follow the instructions and calculations in this appendix A, and use the panel testing procedures in ASTM D5087-02 (Reapproved 2021), “Standard Test Method for Determining Amount of Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Released from Solventborne Automotive Coatings and Available for Removal in a VOC Control Device (Abatement)” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17), or the guidelines presented in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17). You must weigh panels at the points described in section 2.5 of this appendix A and perform calculations as described in sections 3 and 4 of this appendix A. You may conduct panel tests on the production paint line in your facility or in a laboratory simulation of the production paint line in your facility.
2.2 You may conduct panel testing on representative coatings as described in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17). If you panel test representative coatings, then you may calculate either a unique percent capture efficiency value for each coating grouped with that representative coating, or a composite percent capture efficiency value for the group of coatings. If you panel test each coating, then you must convert the panel test result for each coating to a unique percent capture efficiency value for that coating.
2.3 Identification of Controlled Spray Booth Zones.
You must identify each controlled spray booth zone or each group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones to be tested. (For example, a controlled bell zone immediately followed by a controlled robotic zone.) Separate panel tests are required for non-contiguous controlled spray booth zones. The flash zone between the last basecoat zone and the first clearcoat zone makes these zones non-contiguous.
2.4 Where to Apply Coating to the Panel.
If you are conducting a panel test for a single controlled spray booth zone, then you must apply coating to the panel only in that controlled spray booth zone. If you are conducting a panel test for a group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones, then you must apply coating to the panel only in that
group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones.
2.5 How to Process and When to Weigh the Panel.
The instructions in this section pertain to panel testing of coating, i, or of the coating representing the group of coatings that includes coating, i.
2.5.1 You must weigh the blank panel. (Same as in bake oven panel test.) The mass of the blank panel is represented by W
blank,i
(grams).
2.5.2 Apply coating, i, or the coating representing coating, i, to the panel in the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested (in plant test), or in a simulation of the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested (laboratory test).
2.5.3 Remove and weigh the wet panel as soon as the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested. (Different than bake oven panel test.) This weighing must be conducted quickly to avoid further evaporation of VOC. The mass of the wet panel is represented by W
wet,i
(grams).
2.5.4 Return the wet panel to the point in the coating process or simulation of the coating process where it was removed for weighing.
2.5.5 Allow the panel to travel through the rest of the coating process in the plant or laboratory simulation of the coating process. You must not apply any more coating to the panel after it leaves the controlled spray booth zone (or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones) being tested. The rest of the coating process or simulation of the coating process consists of:
2.5.5.1 All of the spray booth zone(s) or simulation of all of the spray booth zone(s) located after the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested and before the bake oven where the coating applied to the panel is cured,
2.5.5.2 All of the flash-off area(s) or simulation of all of the flash-off area(s) located after the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested and before the bake oven where the coating applied to the panel is cured, and
2.5.5.3 The bake oven or simulation of the bake oven where the coating applied to the panel is cured.
2.5.6 After the panel exits the bake oven, you must cool and weigh the baked panel. (Same as in bake oven panel test.) The mass of the baked panel is represented by W
baked,i
(grams).

# 3.0 Panel Calculations
The instructions in this section pertain to panel testing of coating, i, or of the coating representing the group of coatings that includes coating, i.
3.1 The mass of coating solids (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) deposited on the panel equals the mass of the baked panel minus the mass of the blank panel as shown in Equation A-1.
ER09MY23.018
Where:
W
sdep, i
= Mass of coating solids (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) deposited on the panel, grams.
3.2 The mass of VOC (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) remaining on the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested equals the mass of the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested minus the mass of the baked panel as shown in Equation A-2.
ER09MY23.019
Where:
W
rem, i
= Mass of VOC (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) remaining on the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested, grams.
3.3 Calculate the mass of VOC (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) remaining on the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested per mass of coating solids deposited on the panel as shown in Equation A-3.
ER09MY23.020
Where:
P
m, i
= Mass of VOC (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) remaining on the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested per mass of coating solids deposited on the panel, grams of VOC remaining per gram of coating solids deposited.
W
rem, i
= Mass of VOC (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) remaining on the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested, grams.
W
sdep, i
= Mass of coating solids (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) deposited on the panel, grams.

# 4.0 Converting Panel Result to Percent Capture
The instructions in this section pertain to panel testing of for coating, i, or of the coating representing the group of coatings that includes coating, i.
4.1 If you panel test representative coatings, then you may convert the panel test result for each representative coating from section 3.3 of this appendix A either to a unique percent capture efficiency value for each coating grouped with that representative coating by using coating specific values for the mass fraction coating solids and mass fraction VOC in section 4.2 of this appendix A, or to a composite percent capture efficiency value for the group of coatings by using the average values for the group of coatings for mass fraction coating solids and mass fraction VOC in section 4.2 of this appendix A. If you panel test each coating, then you must convert the panel test result for each coating to a unique percent capture efficiency value by using coating specific values for the mass fraction coating solids and mass fraction VOC in section 4.2 of this appendix A. The mass fraction of VOC in the coating and the mass fraction of solids in the coating must be determined by Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60) or by following the guidelines for combining analytical VOC content and formulation solvent content presented in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).'
4.2 The percent of VOC for coating, i, or composite percent of VOC for the group of coatings including coating, i, associated with the coating solids deposited on the panel that remains on the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested is calculated using Equation A-4.
ER09MY23.021
Where:
Pvoc
pan, i
= Percent of VOC for coating, i, or composite percent of VOC for the group of coatings including coating, i, associated with the coating solids deposited on the panel that remains on the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone (or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones) being tested, percent.
P
m, i
= Mass of VOC (from coating, i, or from the coating representing coating, i, in the panel test) remaining on the wet panel when the wet panel leaves the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested per mass of coating solids deposited on the panel, grams of VOC remaining per gram of coating solids deposited.
W
s, i
= Mass fraction of coating solids for coating, i, or average mass fraction of coating solids for the group of coatings including coating, i, grams coating solids per gram coating, determined by EPA Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60) or by following the guidelines for combining analytical VOC content and formulation solvent content presented in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat, EPA-453/R-08-002” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
Wvoc
c, i
= Mass fraction of VOC in coating, i, or average mass fraction of VOC for the group of coatings including coating, i, grams VOC per grams coating, determined by EPA Method 24 (appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60) or the guidelines for combining analytical VOC content and formulation solvent content presented in “Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Topcoat Operations,” EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
4.3 The percent of VOC for coating, i, or composite percent of VOC for the group of coatings including coating, i, associated with the coating sprayed in the controlled spray booth zone (or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones) being tested that is captured in the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested, CE
zone,i
(percent), is calculated using Equation A-5.
ER09MY23.022
Where:
CE
zone, i
= Capture efficiency for coating, i, or for the group of coatings including coating, i, in the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested as a percentage of the VOC in the coating, i, or of the group of coatings including coating, i, sprayed in the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested, percent.
4.4 Calculate the percent of VOC for coating, i, or composite percent of VOC for the group of coatings including coating, i, associated with the entire volume of coating, i, or with the total volume of all of the coatings grouped with coating, i, sprayed in the entire spray booth that is captured in the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested, using Equation A-6. The volume of coating, i, or of the group of coatings including coating, i, sprayed in the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested, and the volume of coating, i, or of the group of coatings including coating, i, sprayed in the entire spray booth may be determined from gun on times and fluid flow rates or from direct measurements of coating usage.
ER09MY23.023
Where:
CE
i
= Capture efficiency for coating, i, or for the group of coatings including coating, i, in the controlled spray booth zone (or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones) being tested as a percentage of the VOC in the coating, i, or of the group of coatings including coating, i, sprayed in the entire spray booth in which the controlled spray booth zone (or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones) being tested, percent.
V
zone, i
= Volume of coating, i, or of the group of coatings including coating, i, sprayed in the controlled spray booth zone or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones being tested, liters.
V
booth, i
= Volume of coating, i, or of the group of coatings including coating, i, sprayed in the entire spray booth containing the controlled spray booth zone (or group of contiguous controlled spray booth zones) being tested, liters.
4.5 If you conduct multiple panel tests for the same coating or same group of coatings in the same spray booth (either because the coating or group of coatings is controlled in non-contiguous zones of the spray booth, or because you choose to conduct separate panel tests for contiguous controlled spray
booth zones), then you may add the result from section 4.4 for each such panel test to get the total capture efficiency for the coating or group of coatings over all of the controlled zones in the spray booth for the coating or group of coatings.

# Subpart NN—Standards of Performance for Phosphate Rock Plants

# Source:
47 FR 16589, Apr. 16, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.400
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities used in phosphate rock plants which have a maximum plant production capacity greater than 3.6 megagrams per hour (4 tons/hr): dryers, calciners, grinders, and ground rock handling and storage facilities, except those facilities producing or preparing phosphate rock solely for consumption in elemental phosphorus production.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section which commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 21, 1979, is subject to the requirements of this part.
§ 60.401
Definitions.
(a)
Phosphate rock plant
means any plant which produces or prepares phosphate rock product by any or all of the following processes: Mining, beneficiation, crushing, screening, cleaning, drying, calcining, and grinding.
(b)
Phosphate rock feed
means all material entering the process unit, including moisture and extraneous material as well as the following ore minerals: Fluorapatite, hydroxylapatite, chlorapatite, and carbonateapatite.
(c)
Dryer
means a unit in which the moisture content of phosphate rock is reduced by contact with a heated gas stream.
(d)
Calciner
means a unit in which the moisture and organic matter of phosphate rock is reduced within a combustion chamber.
(e)
Grinder
means a unit which is used to pulverize dry phosphate rock to the final product size used in the manufacture of phosphate fertilizer and does not include crushing devices used in mining.
(f)
Ground phosphate rock handling and storage system
means a system which is used for the conveyance and storage of ground phosphate rock from grinders at phosphate rock plants.
(g)
Beneficiation
means the process of washing the rock to remove impurities or to separate size fractions.
[47 FR 16589, Apr. 16, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.402
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From any phosphate rock dryer any gases which:
(i) Contain particulate matter in excess of 0.030 kilogram per megagram of phosphate rock feed (0.06 lb/ton), or
(ii) Exhibit greater than 10-percent opacity.
(2) From any phosphate rock calciner processing unbeneficiated rock or blends of beneficiated and unbeneficiated rock, any gases which:
(i) Contain particulate matter in excess of 0.12 kilogram per megagram of phosphate rock feed (0.23 lb/ton), or
(ii) Exhibit greater than 10-percent opacity.
(3) From any phosphate rock calciner processing beneficiated rock any gases which:
(i) Contain particulate matter in excess of 0.055 kilogram per megagram of phosphate rock feed (0.11 lb/ton), or
(ii) Exhibit greater than 10-percent opacity.
(4) From any phosphate rock grinder any gases which:
(i) Contain particulate matter in excess of 0.006 kilogram per megagram of phosphate rock feed (0.012 lb/ton), or
(ii) Exhibit greater than zero-percent opacity.
(5) From any ground phosphate rock handling and storage system any gases which exhibit greater than zero-percent opacity.
[47 FR 16589, Apr. 16, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.403
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) Any owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, to monitor and record the opacity of the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any phosphate rock dryer, calciner, or grinder. The span of this system shall be set at 40-percent opacity.
(b) For ground phosphate rock storage and handling systems, continuous monitoring systems for measuring opacity are not required.
(c) The owner or operator of any affected phosphate rock facility using a wet scrubbing emission control device shall not be subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, but shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the following continuous monitoring devices:
(1) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss of the gas stream through the scrubber. The monitoring device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±250 pascals (±1 inch water) gauge pressure.
(2) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the scrubbing liquid supply pressure to the control device. The monitoring device must be accurate within ±5 percent of design scrubbing liquid supply pressure.
(d) For the purpose of conducting a performance test under § 60.8, the owner or operator of any phosphate rock plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device for measuring the phosphate rock feed to any affected dryer, calciner, or grinder. The measuring device used must be accurate to within ±5 percent of the mass rate over its operating range.
(e) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as all 6-minute periods during which the average opacity of the plume from any phosphate rock dryer, calciner, or grinder subject to paragraph (a) of this section exceeds the applicable opacity limit.
(f) Any owner or operator subject to the requirements under paragraph (c) of this section shall report on a frequency specified in § 60.7(c) all measurement results that are less than 90 percent of the average levels maintained during the most recent performance test conducted under § 60.8 in which the affected facility demonstrated compliance with the standard under § 60.402.
[47 FR 16589, Apr. 16, 1982, as amended at 64 FR 7466, Feb. 12, 1999]
§ 60.404
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided for in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.402 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = (c
s
Q
sd
)/(P K)
where:
E = emission rate of particulate matter, kg/Mg (lb/ton) of phosphate rock feed.
c
s
= concentration of particulate matter, g/dscm (g/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = phosphate rock feed rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 g/kg (453.6 g/lb).
(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c
s
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(3) The device of § 60.403(d) shall be used to determine the phosphate rock feed rate (P) for each run.
(4) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(c) To comply with § 60.403(f), if applicable, the owner or operator shall use the monitoring devices in § 60.403(c) (1) and (2) to determine the average pressure loss of the gas stream through the scrubber and the average scrubbing
supply pressure during the particulate matter runs.
[54 FR 6676, Feb. 14, 1989; 54 FR 21344, May 17, 1989]

# Subpart PP—Standards of Performance for Ammonium Sulfate Manufacture

# Source:
45 FR 74850, Nov. 12, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.420
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each ammonium sulfate dryer within an ammonium sulfate manufacturing plant in the caprolactam by-product, synthetic, and coke oven by-product sectors of the ammonium sulfate industry.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after February 4, 1980, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 60.421
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A.
Ammonium sulfate dryer
means a unit or vessel into which ammonium sulfate is charged for the purpose of reducing the moisture content of the product using a heated gas stream. The unit includes foundations, superstructure, material charger systems, exhaust systems, and integral control systems and instrumentation.
Ammonium sulfate feed material streams
means the sulfuric acid feed stream to the reactor/crystallizer for synthetic and coke oven by-product ammonium sulfate manufacturing plants; and means the total or combined feed streams (the oximation ammonium sulfate stream and the rearrangement reaction ammonium sulfate stream) to the crystallizer stage, prior to any recycle streams.
Ammonium sulfate manufacturing plant
means any plant which produces ammonium sulfate.
Caprolactam by-product ammonium sulfate manufacturing plant
means any plant which produces ammonium sulfate as a by-product from process streams generated during caprolactam manufacture.
Coke oven by-product ammonium sulfate manufacturing plant
means any plant which produces ammonium sulfate by reacting sulfuric acid with ammonia recovered as a by-product from the manufacture of coke.
Synthetic ammonium sulfate manufacturing plant
means any plant which produces ammonium sulfate by direct combination of ammonia and sulfuric acid.
§ 60.422
Standards for particulate matter.
On or after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator of an ammonium sulfate dryer subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere, from any ammonium sulfate dryer, particulate matter at an emission rate exceeding 0.15 kilogram of particulate per megagram of ammonium sulfate produced (0.30 pound of particulate per ton of ammonium sulfate produced) and exhaust gases with greater than 15 percent opacity.
§ 60.423
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any ammonium sulfate manufacturing plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate flow monitoring devices which can be used to determine the mass flow of ammonium sulfate feed material streams to the process. The flow monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its range. However, if the plant uses weigh scales of the same accuracy to directly measure production rate of ammonium sulfate, the use of flow monitoring devices is not required.
(b) The owner or operator of any ammonium sulfate manufacturing plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously measures and permanently records the total pressure drop across the emission control system. The monitoring device shall have an
accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
§ 60.424
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.422 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = (c
s
Q
sd
) / (PK)
where:
E = emission rate of particulate matter, kg/Mg (lb/ton) of ammonium sulfate produced.
c
s
= concentration of particulate matter, g/dscm (g/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = production rate of ammonium sulfate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 g/kg (453.6 g/lb).
(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c
s
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 1.50 dscm (53 dscf).
(3) Direct measurement using product weigh scales, or the result of computations using a material balance, shall be used to determine the rate (P) of the ammonium sulfate production. If production rate is determined by material balance, the following equations shall be used:
(i) For synthetic and coke oven by-product ammonium sulfate plants:
P = ABCK
1/4
where:
A = sulfuric aid flow rate to the reactor/crystallizer averaged over the time-period taken to conduct the run, liter/min.
B = acid density (a function of acid strength and temperature), g/cc.
C = acid strength, decimal fraction.
K
1/4
= conversion factor, 0.0808 (Mg-min-cc)/(g-hr-liter) [0.0891 (ton-min-cc)/(g-hr-liter)].
(ii) For caprolactam by-product ammonium sulfate plants:
P = DEFK′
where:
D = total combined feed stream flow rate to the ammonium crystallizer before the point where any recycle streams enter the stream averaged over the time-period taken to conduct the test run, liter/min.
E = density of the process stream solution, ­g/liter.
F= percent mass of ammonium sulfate in the process solution, decimal fraction.
K′ = conversion factor, 6.0 × 10
−5
(Mg-min) / (g-hr) [6.614 × 10
−5
(ton-min) / (g-hr)].
(4) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine the opacity.
[54 FR 6676, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart QQ—Standards of Performance for the Graphic Arts Industry: Publication Rotogravure Printing

# Source:
47 FR 50649, Nov. 8, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.430
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each publication rotogravure printing press.
(b) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to proof presses.
(c) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after October 28, 1980 is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 60.431
Definitions and notations.
(a) All terms used in this subpart that are not defined below have the meaning given to them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Automatic temperature compensator
means a device that continuously senses the temperature of fluid flowing through a metering device and automatically adjusts the registration of the measured volume to the corrected equivalent volume at a base temperature.
Base temperature
means an arbitrary reference temperature for determining liquid densities or adjusting the measured volume of a liquid quantity.
Density
means the mass of a unit volume of liquid, expressed as grams per cubic centimeter, kilograms per liter, or pounds per gallon, at a specified temperature.
Gravure cylinder
means a printing cylinder with an intaglio image consisting of minute cells or indentations specially engraved or etched into the cylinder's surface to hold ink when continuously revolved through a fountain of ink.
Performance averaging period
means 30 calendar days, one calendar month, or four consecutive weeks as specified in sections of this subpart.
Proof press
means any device used only to check the quality of the image formation of newly engraved or etched gravure cylinders and prints only non-saleable items.
Publication rotogravure printing press
means any number of rotogravure printing units capable of printing simultaneously on the same continuous web or substrate and includes any associated device for continuously cutting and folding the printed web, where the following saleable paper products are printed:
Catalogues, including mail order and premium,
Direct mail advertisements, including circulars, letters, pamphlets, cards, and printed envelopes,
Display advertisements, including general posters, outdoor advertisements, car cards, window posters; counter and floor displays; point-of-purchase, and other printed display material,
Magazines,
Miscellaneous advertisements, including brochures, pamphlets, catalogue sheets, circular folders, announcements, package inserts, book jackets, market circulars, magazine inserts, and shopping news,
Newspapers, magazine and comic supplements for newspapers, and preprinted newspaper inserts, including hi-fi and spectacolor rolls and sections,
Periodicals, and
Telephone and other directories, including business reference services.
Raw ink
means all purchased ink.
Related coatings
means all non-ink purchased liquids and liquid-solid mixtures containing VOC solvent, usually referred to as extenders or varnishes, that are used at publication rotogravure printing presses.
Rotogravure printing unit
means any device designed to print one color ink on one side of a continuous web or substrate using a gravure cylinder.
Solvent-borne ink systems
means ink and related coating mixtures whose volatile portion consists essentially of VOC solvent with not more than five weight percent water, as applied to the gravure cylinder.
Solvent recovery system
means an air pollution control system by which VOC solvent vapors in air or other gases are captured and directed through a condenser(s) or a vessel(s) containing beds of activated carbon or other adsorbents. For the condensation method, the solvent is recovered directly from the condenser. For the adsorption method, the vapors are adsorbed, then desorbed by steam or other media, and finally condensed and recovered.
VOC
means volatile organic compound.
VOC solvent
means an organic liquid or liquid mixture consisting of VOC components.
Waterborne ink systems
means ink and related coating mixtures whose volatile portion consists of a mixture of VOC solvent and more than five weight percent water, as applied to the gravure cylinder.
(b) Symbols used in this subpart are defined as follows:
D
B
= the density at the base temperature of VOC solvent used or recovered during one performance averaging period.
D
ci
= the density of each color of raw ink and each related coating (i) used at the subject facility (or facilities), at the coating temperature when the volume of coating used is measured.
D
di
= the density of each VOC solvent (i) added to the ink for dilution at the subject facility (or facilities), at the solvent temperature when the volume of solvent used is measured.
D
gi
= the density of each VOC solvent (i) used as a cleaning agent at the subject facility (or facilities), at the solvent temperature when the volume of cleaning solvent used is measured.
D
hi
= the density of each quantity of water (i) added at the subject facility (or facilities) for dilution of waterborne ink systems at the water temperature when the
volume of dilution water used is measured.
D
mi
= the density of each quantity of VOC solvent and miscellaneous solvent-borne waste inks and waste VOC solvents (i) recovered from the subject facility (or facilities), at the solvent temperature when the volume of solvent recovered is measured.
D
oi
= the density of the VOC solvent contained in each raw ink and related coating (i) used at the subject facility (or facilities), at the coating temperature when the volume of coating used is measured.
D
wi
= the density of the water contained in each waterborne raw ink and related coating (i) used at the subject facility (or facilities), at the coating temperature when the volume of coating used is measured.
L
ci
= the measured liquid volume of each color of raw ink and each related coating (i) used at the facility of a corresponding VOC content, V
oi
or W
oi
, with a VOC density, D
oi
, and a coating density, D
ci
.
L
di
= the measured liquid volume of each VOC solvent (i) with corresponding density, D
di
, added to dilute the ink used at the subject facility (or facilities)
M
ci
= the mass, determined by direct weighing, of each color of raw ink and each related coating (i) used at the subject facility (or facilities).
M
d
= the mass, determined by direct weighing, of VOC solvent added to dilute the ink used at the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
M
g
= the mass, determined by direct weighing, of VOC solvent used as a cleaning agent at the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
M
h
= the mass, determined by direct weighing, of water added for dilution with waterborne ink systems used at the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
M
m
= the mass, determined by direct weighing, of VOC solvent and miscellaneous solvent-borne waste inks and waste VOC solvents recovered from the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
M
o
= the total mass of VOC solvent contained in the raw inks and related coatings used at the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
M
r
= the total mass of VOC solvent recovered from the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
M
t
= the total mass of VOC solvent used at the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
M
v
= the total mass of water used with waterborne ink systems at the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
M
w
= the total mass of water contained in the waterborne raw inks and related coatings used at the subject facility (or facilities) during one performance averaging period.
P = the average VOC emission percentage for the subject facility (or facilities) for one performance averaging period.
V
oi
= the liquid VOC content, expressed as a volume fraction of VOC volume per total volume of coating, of each color of raw ink and related coating (i) used at the subject facility (or facilities).
V
wi
= the water content, expressed as a volume fraction of water volume per total volume of coating, of each color of waterborne raw ink and related coating (i) used at the subject facility (or facilities).
W
oi
= the VOC content, expressed as a weight fraction of mass of VOC per total mass of coating, of each color of raw ink and related coating (i) used at the subject facility (or facilities).
W
wi
= the water content, expressed as a weight fraction of mass of water per total mass of coating, of each color of waterborne raw ink and related coating (i) used at the subject facility (or facilities).
(c) The following subscripts are used in this subpart with the above symbols to denote the applicable facility:
a = affected facility.
b = both affected and existing facilities controlled in common by the same air pollution control equipment.
e = existing facility.
f = all affected and existing facilities located within the same plant boundary.
[47 FR 50649, Nov. 8, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.432
Standard for volatile organic compounds.
During the period of the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 and after the date required for completion of the test, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility VOC equal to more than 16 percent of the total mass of VOC solvent and water used at that facility during any one performance averaging period. The water used includes only that water contained in the waterborne raw inks and related coatings and the water
added for dilution with waterborne ink systems.
§ 60.433
Performance test and compliance provisions.
(a) The owner or operator of any affected facility (or facilities) shall conduct performance tests in accordance with § 60.8, under the following conditions:
(1) The performance averaging period for each test is 30 consecutive calendar days and not an average of three separate runs as prescribed under § 60.8(f).
(2) Except as provided under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, if affected facilities routinely share the same raw ink storage/handling system with existing facilities, then temporary measurement procedures for segregating the raw inks, related coatings, VOC solvent, and water used at the affected facilities must be employed during the test. For this case, an overall emission percentage for the combined facilities as well as for only the affected facilities must be calculated during the test.
(3) For the purpose of measuring bulk storage tank quantities of each color of raw ink and each related coating used, the owner or operator of any affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate during the test one or more:
(i) Non-resettable totalizer metering device(s) for indicating the cumulative liquid volumes used at each affected facility; or
(ii) Segregated storage tanks for each affected facility to allow determination of the liquid quantities used by measuring devices other than the press meters required under item (i) of this article; or
(iii) Storage tanks to serve more than one facility with the liquid quantities used determined by measuring devices other than press meters, if facilities are combined as decribed under paragraph (d), (f), or (g) of this section.
(4) The owner or operator may choose to install an automatic temperature compensator with any liquid metering device used to measure the raw inks, related coatings, water, or VOC solvent used, or VOC solvent recovered.
(5) Records of the measured amounts used at the affected facility and the liquid temperature at which the amounts were measured are maintained for each shipment of all purchased material on at least a weekly basis for:
(i) The raw inks and related coatings used;
(ii) The VOC and water content of each raw ink and related coating used as determined according to § 60.435;
(iii) The VOC solvent and water added to the inks used;
(iv) The VOC solvent used as a cleaning agent; and
(v) The VOC solvent recovered.
(6) The density variations with temperature of the raw inks, related coatings, VOC solvents used, and VOC solvent recovered are determined by the methods stipulated in § 60.435(d).
(7) The calculated emission percentage may be reported as rounded-off to the nearest whole number.
(8) Printing press startups and shutdowns are not included in the exemption provisions under § 60.8(c). Frequent periods of press startups and shutdowns are normal operations and constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test.
(b) If an affected facility uses waterborne ink systems or a combination of waterborne and solvent-borne ink systems with a solvent recovery system, compliance is determined by the following procedures, except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section:
(1) The mass of VOC in the solvent-borne and waterborne raw inks and related coatings used is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.015
where:
k is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used in direct mass quantities with different amounts of VOC content.
m is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used by volume with different amounts of VOC content or different densities.
n is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used by volume with different amounts of VOC content or different VOC solvent densities.
(2) The total mass of VOC used is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.016
where “m” and “n” are the respective total numbers of VOC dilution and cleaning solvents measured as used by volume with different densities.
(3) The mass of water in the waterborne raw inks and related coatings used is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.017
where:
k is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used in direct mass quantities with different amounts of water content.
m is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used by volume with different amounts of water content or different densities.
n is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used by volume with different amounts of water content or different water densities.
(4) The total mass of water used is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.018
where “m” is the total number of water dilution additions measured as used by volume with different densities.
(5) The total mass of VOC solvent recovered is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.019
where “k” if the total number of VOC solvents, miscellaneous solvent-borne waste inks, and waste VOC solvents measured as recovered by volume with different densities.
(6) The average VOC emission percentage for the affected facility is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.020
(c) If an affected facility controlled by a solvent recovery system uses only solvent-borne ink systems, the owner or operator may choose to determine compliance on a direct mass or a density-corrected liquid volume basis. Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, compliance is determined as follows:
(1) On a direct mass basis, compliance is determined according to paragraph (b) of this section, except that the water term, M
v
, does not apply.
(2) On a density-corrected liquid volume basis, compliance is determined by the following procedures:
(i) A base temperature corresponding to that for the largest individual amount of VOC solvent used or recovered from the affected facility, or other reference temperature, is chosen by the owner or operator.
(ii) The corrected liquid volume of VOC in the raw inks and related coatings used is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.021
where:
k is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used in direct mass
quantities with different amounts of VOC content.
m is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used by volume with different amounts of VOC content or different densities.
n is the total number of raw inks and related coatings measured as used by volume with different amounts of VOC content or different VOC solvent densities.
(iii) The total corrected liquid volume of VOC used is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.022
where “m” and “n” are the respective total numbers of VOC dilution and cleaning solvents measured as used by volume with different densities.
(iv) The total corrected liquid volume of VOC solvent recovered is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.023
where “k” is the total number of VOC solvents, miscellaneous solvent-borne waste inks, and waste VOC solvents measured as recovered by volume with different densities.
(v) The average VOC emission percentage for the affected facility is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.024
(d) If two or more affected facilities are controlled by the same solvent recovery system, compliance is determined by the procedures specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, whichever applies, except that (L
t
)
a
and (L
r
)
a
, (M
t
)
a
, (M
r
)
a
, and (M
v
)
a
, are the collective amounts of VOC solvent and water corresponding to all the affected facilities controlled by that solvent recovery system. The average VOC emission percentage for each of the affected facilities controlled by that same solvent recovery system is assumed to be equal.
(e) Except as provided under paragraph (f) of this section, if an existing facility (or facilities) and an affected facility (or facilities) are controlled in common by the same solvent recovery system, the owner or operator shall determine compliance by conducting a separate emission test on the existing facility (or facilities) and then conducting a performance test on the combined facilities as follows:
(1) Before the initial startup of the affected facility (or facilities) and at any other time as requested by the Administrator, the owner or operator shall conduct emission test(s) on the existing facility (or facilities) controlled by the subject solvent recovery system. The solvent recovery system must handle VOC emissions from only the subject existing facility (or facilities), not from affected facilities, during the emission test.
(2) During the emission test, the affected facilities are subject to the standard stated in § 60.432.
(3) The emission test is conducted over a 30 consecutive calendar day averaging period according to the conditions stipulated in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section, except that the conditions pertain to only existing facilities instead of affected facilities.
(4) The owner or operator of the existing facility (or facilities) shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the emission test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.
(5) The emission percentage for the existing facility (or facilities) during the emission test is determined by one of the following procedures:
(i) If the existing facility (or facilities) uses a combination of waterborne and solvent-borne ink systems, the average VOC emission percentage must be determined on a direct mass basis according to paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, whichever applies, with the following equation:
EC01JN92.025
where the water and VOC solvent amounts pertain to only existing facilities.
(ii) If the existing facility (or facilities) uses only solvent-borne ink systems, the owner or operator may choose to determine the emission percentage either on a direct mass basis or a density-corrected liquid volume basis according to paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, whichever applies. On a direct mass basis, the average VOC emission percentage is determined by the equation presented in article (i) of this paragraph. On a density-corrected liquid volume basis, the average VOC emission percentage is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.026
where the VOC solvent amounts pertain to only existing facilities.
(6) The owner or operator of the existing facility (or facilities) shall furnish the Administrator a written report of the results of the emission test.
(7) After completion of the separate emission test on the existing facility (or facilities), the owner or operator shall conduct performance test(s) on the combined facilities with the solvent recovery system handling VOC emissions from both the existing and affected facilities.
(8) During performance test(s), the emission percentage for the existing facility (or facilities), P
e
, is assumed to be equal to that determined in the latest emission test. The administrator may request additional emission tests if any physical or operational changes occur to any of the subject existing facilities.
(9) The emission percentage for the affected facility (or facilities) during performance test(s) with both existing and affected facilities connected to the solvent recovery system is determined by one of the following procedures:
(i) If any of the combined facilities uses both waterborne and solvent-borne ink systems, the average VOC emission percentage must be determined on a direct mass basis according to paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, whichever applies, with the following equation:
EC01JN92.027
where (M
t
)
b
and (M
r
)
b
are the collective VOC solvent amounts pertaining to all the combined facilities.
(ii) If all of the combined facilities use only solvent-borne ink systems, the owner or operator may choose to determine performance of the affected facility (or facilities) either on a direct mass basis or a density-corrected liquid volume basis according to paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, whichever applies. On a direct mass basis, the average VOC emission percentage is determined by the equation presented in article (i) of this paragraph. On a density-corrected liquid volume basis, the average VOC emission percentage is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.028
where (L
t
)
b
and (L
r
)
b
are the collective VOC solvent amounts pertaining to all the combined facilities.
(f) The owner or operator may choose to show compliance of the combined performance of existing and affected facilities controlled in common by the same solvent recovery system. A separate emission test for existing facilities is not required for this option. The combined performance is determined by one of the following procedures:
(1) If any of the combined facilities uses both waterborne and solvent-borne ink systems, the combined average VOC emission percentage must be determined on a direct mass basis according to paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, whichever applies, with the following equation:
EC01JN92.308
(2) If all of the combined facilities use only solvent-borne ink systems, the owner or operator may choose to determine performance either on a direct mass basis or a density-corrected liquid volume basis according to paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, whichever applies. On a direct mass basis,
the average VOC emission percentage is determined by the equation presented in article (i) of this paragraph. On a density-corrected liquid volume basis, the average VOC emission percentage is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.029
(g) If all existing and affected facilities located within the same plant boundary use waterborne ink systems or solvent-borne ink systems with solvent recovery systems, the owner or operator may choose to show compliance on a plantwide basis for all the existing and affected facilities together. No separate emission tests on existing facilities and no temporary segregated liquid measurement procedures for affected facilities are required for this option. The plantwide performance is determined by one of the following procedures:
(1) If any of the facilities use waterborne ink systems, the total plant average VOC emission percentage must be determined on a direct mass basis according to paragraph (b) of this section with the following equation:
EC01JN92.030
Where (M
t
)
f
and (M
v
)
f
are the collective VOC solvent and water amounts used at all the subject plant facilities during the performance test.
(2) If all of the plant facilities use only solvent-borne ink systems, the owner or operator may choose to determine performance either on a direct mass basis or a density-corrected liquid volume basis according to paragraph (c) of this section. On a direct mass basis, the total plant average VOC emission percentage is determined by the equation presented in article (i) of this paragraph. On a density-corrected liquid volume basis, the total plant average VOC emission percentage is determined by the following equation:
EC01JN92.031
Where (L
t
)
f
is the collective VOC solvent amount used at all the subject plant facilities during the performance test.
[47 FR 50649, Nov. 8, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.434
Monitoring of operations and recordkeeping.
(a) After completion of the performance test required under § 60.8, the owner or operator of any affected facility using waterborne ink systems or solvent-borne ink systems with solvent recovery systems shall record the amount of solvent and water used, solvent recovered, and estimated emission percentage for each performance averaging period and shall maintain these records for 2 years. The emission percentage is estimated as follows:
(1) The performance averaging period for monitoring of proper operation and maintenance is a calendar month or 4 consecutive weeks, at the option of the owner or operator.
(2) If affected facilities share the same raw ink storage/handling system with existing facilities, solvent and water used, solvent recovered, and emission percentages for the combined facilities may be documented. Separate emission percentages for only the affected facilities are not required in this case. The combined emission percentage is compared to the overall average for the existing and affected facilities' emission percentage determined during the most recent performance test.
(3) Except as provided in article (4) of this paragraph, temperatures and liquid densities determined during the most recent performance test are used to calculate corrected volumes and mass quantities.
(4) The owner or operator may choose to measure temperatures for determination of actual liquid densities during each performance averaging period. A different base temperature may be used for each performance averaging period if desired by the owner or operator.
(5) The emission percentage is calculated according to the procedures under § 60.433 (b) through (g), whichever applies, or by a comparable calculation which compares the total solvent recovered to the total solvent used at the affected facility.
§ 60.435
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The owner or operator of any affected facility using solvent-borne ink systems shall determine the VOC content of the raw inks and related coatings used at the affected facility by:
(1) Analysis using Method 24A of routine weekly samples of raw ink and related coatings in each respective storage tank; or
(2) Analysis using Method 24A of samples of each shipment of all purchased raw inks and related coatings; or
(3) Determination of the VOC content from the formulation data supplied by the ink manufacturer with each shipment of raw inks and related coatings used.
(b) The owner or operator of any affected facility using solvent-borne ink systems shall use the results of verification analyses by Method 24A to determine compliance when discrepancies with ink manufacturers' formulation data occur.
(c) The owner or operator of any affected facility using waterborne ink systems shall determine the VOC and water content of raw inks and related coatings used at the affected facility by:
(1) Determination of the VOC and water content from the formulation data supplied by the ink manufacturer with each shipment of purchased raw inks and related coatings used; or
(2) Analysis of samples of each shipment of purchased raw inks and related coatings using a test method approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 60.8(b).
(d) The owner or operator of any affected facility shall determine the density of raw inks, related coatings, and VOC solvents by:
(1) Making a total of three determinations for each liquid sample at specified temperatures using the procedure outlined in ASTM D1475-60, 80, or 90, which is incorporated by reference. It is available from the American Society of Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on November 8, 1982. This material is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval and a notice of any change in these materials will be published in the
Federal Register.
The temperature and density is recorded as the arithmetic average of the three determinations; or
(2) Using literature values, at specified temperatures, acceptable to the Administrator.
(e) If compliance is determined according to § 60.433 (e), (f), or (g), the existing as well as affected facilities are subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
[47 FR 50649, Nov. 8, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]

# Subpart RR—Standards of Performance for Pressure Sensitive Tape and Label Surface Coating Operations

# Source:
48 FR 48375, Oct. 18, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.440
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each coating line used in the manufacture of pressure sensitive tape and label materials.
(b) Any affected facility which inputs to the coating process 45 Mg (50 tons) of VOC or less per 12 month period is not subject to the emission limits of § 60.442(a), however, the affected facility is subject to the requirements of all other applicable sections of this subpart. If the amount of VOC input exceeds 45 Mg (50 tons) per 12 month period, the coating line will become subject to § 60.442(a) and all other sections of this subpart.
(c) This subpart applies to any affected facility which begins construction, modification, or reconstruction after December 30, 1980.
[48 FR 48375, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.441
Definitions and symbols.
(a) Except as otherwise required by the context, terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows:
Coating applicator
means an apparatus used to apply a surface coating to a continuous web.
Coating line
means any number or combination of adhesive, release, or precoat coating applicators, flashoff areas, and ovens which coat a continuous web, located between a web unwind station and a web rewind station, to produce pressure sensitive tape and label materials.
Coating solids applied
means the solids content of the coated adhesive, release, or precoat as measured by Method 24.
Flashoff area
means the portion of a coating line after the coating applicator and usually before the oven entrance.
Fugitive volatile organic compounds
means any volatile organic compounds which are emitted from the coating applicator and flashoff areas and are not emitted in the oven.
Hood or enclosure
means any device used to capture fugitive volatile organic compounds.
Oven
means a chamber which uses heat or irradiation to bake, cure, polymerize, or dry a surface coating.
Precoat
means a coating operation in which a coating other than an adhesive or release is applied to a surface during the production of a pressure sensitive tape or label product.
Solvent applied in the coating
means all organic solvent contained in the adhesive, release, and precoat formulations that is metered into the coating applicator from the formulation area.
Total enclosure
means a structure or building around the coating applicator and flashoff area or the entire coating line for the purpose of confining and totally capturing fugitive VOC emissions.
VOC
means volatile organic compound.
(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined below are given meaning in the Act or in subpart A of this part.
a = the gas stream vents exiting the emission control device.
b = the gas stream vents entering the emission control device.
C
aj
= the concentration of VOC (carbon equivalent) in each gas stream (j) exiting the emission control device, in parts per million by volume.
C
bi
= the concentration of VOC (carbon equivalent) in each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device, in parts per million by volume.
C
fk
= the concentration of VOC (carbon equivalent) in each gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere, in parts per million by volume.
G = the calculated weighted average mass (kg) of VOC per mass (kg) of coating solids applied each calendar month.
M
ci
= the total mass (kg) of each coating (i) applied during the calendar month as determined from facility records.
M
r
= the total mass (kg) of solvent recovered for a calendar month.
Q
aj
= the volumetric flow rate of each effluent gas stream (j) exiting the emission control device, in dry standard cubic meters per hour.
Q
bi
= the volumetric flow rate of each effluent gas stream (i) entering the emission control device, in dry standard cubic meters per hour.
Q
fk
= the volumetric flow rate of each effluent gas stream (k) emitted to the atmosphere, in dry standard cubic meters per hour.
R = the overall VOC emission reduction achieved for a calendar month (in percent).
R
q
= the required overall VOC emission reduction (in percent).
W
oi
= the weight fraction of organics applied of each coating (i) applied during a calendar month as determined from Method 24 or coating manufacturer's formulation data.
W
si
= the weight fraction of solids applied of each coating (i) applied during a calendar month as determined from Method 24 or coating manufacturer's formulation data.
[48 FR 48375, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.442
Standard for volatile organic compounds.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required by § 60.8 has been completed each owner or operator subject to this subpart shall:
(1) Cause the discharge into the atmosphere from an affected facility not more than 0.20 kg VOC/kg of coating solids applied as calculated on a weighted average basis for one calendar month; or
(2) Demonstrate for each affected facility;
(i) A 90 percent overall VOC emission reduction as calculated over a calendar month; or
(ii) The percent overall VOC emission reduction specified in § 60.443(b) as calculated over a calendar month.
§ 60.443
Compliance provisions.
(a) To determine compliance with § 60.442 the owner or operator of the affected facility shall calculate a weighted average of the mass of solvent used per mass of coating solids applied for a one calendar month period according to the following procedures:
(1) Determine the weight fraction of organics and the weight fraction of solids of each coating applied by using Reference Method 24 or by the coating manufacturer's formulation data.
(2) Compute the weighted average by the following equation:
EC16NO91.032
(3) For each affected facility where the value of G is less than or equal to 0.20 kg VOC per kg of coating solids applied, the affected facility is in compliance with § 60.442(a)(1).
(b) To determine compliance with § 60.442(a)(2), the owner or operator shall calculate the required overall VOC emission reduction according to the following equation:
EC16NO91.033
If R
q
is less than or equal to 90 percent, then the required overall VOC emission reduction is R
q
. If R
q
is greater than 90 percent, then the required overall VOC emission reduction is 90 percent.
(c) Where compliance with the emission limits specified in § 60.442(a)(2) is achieved through the use of a solvent recovery system, the owner or operator shall determine the overall VOC emission reduction for a one calendar month period by the following equation:
EC16NO91.034
If the R value is equal to or greater than the R
q
value specified in paragraph (b) of this section, then compliance with § 60.442(a)(2) is demonstrated.
(d) Where compliance with the emission limit specified in § 60.442(a)(2) is achieved through the use of a solvent destruction device, the owner or operator shall determine calendar monthly compliance by comparing the monthly required overall VOC emission reduction specified in paragraph (b) of this section to the overall VOC emission reduction demonstrated in the most recent performance test which complied with § 60.442(a)(2). If the monthly required overall VOC emission reduction is less than or equal to the overall VOC reduction of the most recent performance test, the affected facility is in compliance with § 60.442(a)(2).
(e) Where compliance with § 60.442(a)(2) is achieved through the use of a solvent destruction device, the owner or operator shall continuously record the destruction device combustion temperature during coating operations for thermal incineration destruction devices or the gas temperature upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed during coating operations for catalytic incineration destruction devices. For thermal incineration destruction devices the owner or operator shall record all 3-hour periods (during actual coating operations) during which the average temperature of the device is more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the average temperature of the device during the most recent performance test complying with § 60.442(a)(2). For catalytic incineration destruction devices, the owner or operator shall record all 3-hour periods (during actual coating operations) during which the average temperature of the device immediately before the catalyst bed is more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the average temperature of the device during the most recent performance test complying with § 60.442(a)(2), and all 3-hour periods (during actual coating operations) during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst
bed is less than 80 percent of the average temperature difference of the device during the most recent performance test complying with § 60.442(a)(2).
(f) After the initial performance test required for all affected facilities under § 60.8, compliance with the VOC emission limitation and percentage reduction requirements under § 60.442 is based on the average emission reduction for one calendar month. A separate compliance test is completed at the end of each calendar month after the initial performance test, and a new calendar month's average VOC emission reduction is calculated to show compliance with the standard.
(g) If a common emission control device is used to recover or destroy solvent from more than one affected facility, the performance of that control device is assumed to be equal for each of the affected facilities. Compliance with § 60.442(a)(2) is determined by the methods specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and is performed simultaneously on all affected facilities.
(h) If a common emission control device is used to recover solvent from an existing facility (or facilities) as well as from an affected facility (or facilities), the overall VOC emission reduction for the affected facility (or facilities), for the purpose of compliance, shall be determined by the following procedures:
(1) The owner or operator of the existing facility (or facilities) shall determine the mass of solvent recovered for a calendar month period from the existing facility (or facilities) prior to the connection of the affected facility (or facilities) to the emission control device.
(2) The affected facility (or facilities) shall then be connected to the emission control device.
(3) The owner or operator shall determine the total mass of solvent recovered from both the existing and affected facilities over a calendar month period. The mass of solvent determined in paragraph (h)(1) of this section from the existing facility shall be subtracted from the total mass of recovered solvent to obtain the mass of solvent recovered from the affected facility (or facilities). The overall VOC emission reduction of the affected facility (or facilities) can then be determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(i) If a common emission control device(s) is used to destruct solvent from an existing facility (or facilities) as well as from an affected facility (or facilities), the overall VOC emission reduction for the affected facility (or facilities), for the purpose of compliance, shall be determined by the following procedures:
(1) The owner or operator shall operate the emission control device with both the existing and affected facilities connected.
(2) The concentration of VOC (in parts per million by volume) after the common emission control device shall be determined as specified in § 60.444(c). This concentration is used in the calculation of compliance for both the existing and affected facilities.
(3) The volumetric flow out of the common control device attributable to the affected facility (or facilities) shall be calculated by first determining the ratio of the volumetric flow entering the common control device attributable to the affected facility (facilities) to the total volumetric flow entering the common control device from both existing and affected facilities. The multiplication of this ratio by the total volumetric flow out of the common control device yields the flow attributable to the affected facility (facilities). Compliance is determined by the use of the equation specified in § 60.444(c).
(j) Startups and shutdowns are normal operation for this source category. Emissions from these operations are to be included when determining if the standard specified at § 60.442(a)(2) is being attained.
[48 FR 48375, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.444
Performance test procedures.
(a) The performance test for affected facilities complying with § 60.442 without the use of add-on controls shall be identical to the procedures specified in § 60.443(a).
(b) The performance test for affected facilities controlled by a solvent recovery device shall be conducted as follows:
(1) The performance test shall be a one calendar month test and not the average of three runs as specified in § 60.8(f).
(2) The weighted average mass of VOC per mass of coating solids applied for a one calendar month period shall be determined as specified in § 60.443(a) (1) and (2).
(3) Calculate the required percent overall VOC emission reduction as specified in § 60.443(b).
(4) Inventory VOC usage and VOC recovery for a one calendar month period.
(5) Determine the percent overall VOC emission reduction as specified in § 60.443(c).
(c) The performance test for affected facilities controlled by a solvent destruction device shall be conducted as follows:
(1) The performance of the solvent destruction device shall be determined by averaging the results of three test runs as specified in § 60.8(f).
(2) Determine for each affected facility prior to each test run the weighted average mass of VOC per mass of coating solids applied being used at the facility. The weighted average shall be determined as specified in § 60.443(a). In this application the quantities of W
oi
, W
si
, and M
ci
shall be determined for the time period of each test run and not a calendar month as specified in § 60.441.
(3) Calculate the required percent overall VOC emission reduction as specified in § 60.443(b).
(4) Determine the percent overall VOC emission reduction of the solvent destruction device by the following equation and procedures:
EC01JN92.032
(i) The owner or operator of the affected facility shall construct the overall VOC emission reduction system so that all volumetric flow rates and total VOC emissions can be accurately determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in § 60.446(b).
(ii) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall construct a temporary total enclosure around the coating line applicator and flashoff area during the performance test for the purpose of capturing fugitive VOC emissions. If a permanent total enclosure exists in the affected facility prior to the performance test and the Administrator is satisfied that the enclosure is totally capturing fugitive VOC emissions, then no additional total enclosure will be required for the performance test.
(iii) For each affected facility where the value of R is greater than or equal to the value of R
q
calculated in § 60.443(b), compliance with § 60.442(a)(2) is demonstrated.
§ 60.445
Monitoring of operations and recordkeeping.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to this subpart shall maintain a calendar month record of all coatings used and the results of the reference test method specified in § 60.446(a) or the manufacturer's formulation data used for determining the VOC content of those coatings.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a solvent recovery device shall maintain a calendar month record of the amount of solvent applied in the coating at each affected facility.
(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a solvent recovery device shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device for indicating the cumulative amount of solvent recovered by the device over a calendar month period. The monitoring device shall be accurate within ±2.0 percent. The owner or operator shall maintain a calendar month record of the amount of solvent recovered by the device.
(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility operating at the conditions specified in § 60.440(b) shall maintain a 12 month record of the amount of solvent applied in the coating at the facility.
(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a thermal incineration solvent destruction device shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously indicates and records the temperature of the solvent destruction device's exhaust gases. The monitoring
device shall have an accuracy of the greater of ±0.75 percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius or ±2.5 °C.
(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a catalytic incineration solvent destruction device shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously indicates and records the gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed.
(g) The owner or operator of an affected facility controlled by a solvent destruction device which uses a hood or enclosure to capture fugitive VOC emissions shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously indicates that the hood or enclosure is operating. No continuous monitor shall be required if the owner or operator can demonstrate that the hood or enclosure system is interlocked with the affected facility's oven recirculation air system.
(h) Records of the measurements required in §§ 60.443 and 60.445 must be retained for at least two years following the date of the measurements.
§ 60.446
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The VOC content per unit of coating solids applied and compliance with § 60.422(a)(1) shall be determined by either Method 24 and the equations specified in § 60.443 or by manufacturers' formulation data. In the event of any inconsistency between a Method 24 test and manufacturers' formulation data, the Method 24 test will govern. The Administrator may require an owner or operator to perform Method 24 tests during such months as he deems appropriate. For Method 24, the coating sample must be a one liter sample taken into a one liter container at a point where the sample will be representative of the coating applied to the web substrate.
(b) Method 25 shall be used to determine the VOC concentration, in parts per million by volume, of each effluent gas stream entering and exiting the solvent destruction device or its equivalent, and each effluent gas stream emitted directly to the atmosphere. Methods 1, 2, 3, and 4 shall be used to determine the sampling location, volumetric flowrate, molecular weight, and moisture of all sampled gas streams. For Method 25, the sampling time for each of three runs must be at least 1 hour. The minimum sampling volume must be 0.003 dscm except that shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other factors, may be approved by the Administrator.
(c) If the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that testing of representative stacks yields results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks, the Administrator will approve testing of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis.
[48 FR 48375, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.447
Reporting requirements.
(a) For all affected facilities subject to compliance with § 60.442, the performance test data and results from the performance test shall be submitted to the Administrator as specified in § 60.8(a) of the General Provisions (40 CFR part 60, subpart A).
(b) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of each affected facility shall submit quarterly reports to the Administrator of exceedances of the VOC emission limits specified in § 60.442. If no such exceedances occur during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually.
(c) The owner or operator of each affected facility shall also submit reports at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) when the incinerator temperature drops as defined under § 60.443(e). If no such periods occur, the owner or operator shall state this in the report.
(d) The requirements of this subsection remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such States. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with this subsection, provided that they
comply with the requirements established by the State.
[48 FR 48375, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 51383, Dec. 13, 1990]

# Subpart SS—Standards of Performance for Industrial Surface Coating: Large Appliances

# Source:
47 FR 47785, Oct. 27, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.450
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each surface coating operation in a large appliance surface coating line.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after December 24, 1980.
§ 60.451
Definitions.
(a) All terms used in this subpart not defined below are given the meaning in the Act or in subpart A of this part.
Applied coating solids
means the coating solids that adhere to the surface of the large appliance part being coated.
Coating application station
means that portion of the large appliance surface coating operation where a prime coat or a top coat is applied to large appliance parts or products (e.g., dip tank, spray booth, or flow coating unit).
Curing oven
means a device that uses heat to dry or cure the coating(s) applied to large appliance parts or products.
Electrodeposition (EDP)
means a method of coating application in which the large appliance part or product is submerged in a tank filled with coating material suspended in water and an electrical potential is used to enhance deposition of the material on the part or product.
Flashoff area
means the portion of a surface coating line between the coating application station and the curing oven.
Large appliance part
means any organic surface-coated metal lid, door, casing, panel, or other interior or exterior metal part or accessory that is assembled to form a large appliance product. Parts subject to in-use temperatures in excess of 250 °F are not included in this definition.
Large appliance product
means any organic surface-coated metal range, oven, microwave oven, refrigerator, freezer, washer, dryer, dishwasher, water heater, or trash compactor manufactured for household, commercial, or recreational use.
Large appliance surface coating line
means that portion of a large appliance assembly plant engaged in the application and curing of organic surface coatings on large appliance parts or products.
Organic coating
means any coating used in a surface coating operation, including dilution solvents, from which VOC emissions occur during the application or the curing process. For the purpose of this regulation, powder coatings are not included in this definition.
Powder coating
means any surface coating that is applied as a dry powder and is fused into a continuous coating film through the use of heat.
Spray booth
means the structure housing automatic or manual spray application equipment where a coating is applied to large appliance parts or products.
Surface coating operation
means the system on a large appliance surface coating line used to apply and dry or cure an organic coating on the surface of large appliance parts or products. The surface coating operation may be a prime coat or a topcoat operation and includes the coating application station(s), flashoff area, and curing oven.
Transfer efficiency
means the ratio of the amount of coating solids deposited onto the surface of a large appliance part or product to the total amount of coating solids used.
VOC content
means the proportion of a coating that is volatile organic compounds (VOC's), expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of coating solids.
VOC emissions
means the mass of volatile organic compounds (VOC's), expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of applied coating solids, emitted from a surface coating operation.
(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined below are given the meaning in the Act or subpart A of this part.
C
a
= the concentration of VOC's in a gas stream leaving a control device and entering the atmosphere (parts per million by volume, as carbon).
C
b
= the concentration of VOC's in a gas stream entering a control device (parts per million by volume, as carbon).
C
f
= the concentration of VOC's in a gas stream emitted directly to the atmosphere (parts per million by volume, as carbon).
D
c
= density of coating (or input stream), as received (kilograms per liter).
D
d
= density of a VOC-solvent added to coatings (kilograms per liter).
D
r
= density of a VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (kilograms per liter).
E = the VOC destruction efficiency of a control device (fraction).
F = the proportion of total VOC's emitted by an affected facility that enters a control device (fraction).
G = the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's in coatings consumed in a calendar month per unit volume of applied coating solids (kilograms per liter).
L
c
= the volume of coating consumed, as received (liters).
L
d
= the volume of VOC-solvent added to coatings (liters).
L
r
= the volume of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (liters).
L
s
= the volume of coating solids consumed (liters).
M
d
= the mass of VOC-solvent added to coatings (kilograms).
M
o
= the mass of VOC's in coatings consumed, as received (kilograms).
M
r
= the mass of VOC's recovered by an emission control device (kilograms).
N = the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per unit volume of applied coating solids (kilograms per liter).
Q
a
= the volumetric flow rate of a gas stream leaving a control device and entering the atmosphere (dry standard cubic meters per hour).
Q
b
= the volumetric flow rate of a gas stream entering a control device (dry standard cubic meters per hour).
Q
f
= the volumetric flow rate of a gas stream emitted directly to the atmosphere (dry standard cubic meters per hour).
R = the overall VOC emission reduction achieved for an affected facility (fraction).
T = the transfer efficiency (fraction).
V
s
= the proportion of solids in a coating (or input stream), as received (fraction by volume).
W
o
= the proportion of VOC's in a coating (or input stream), as received (fraction by weight).
§ 60.452
Standard for volatile organic compounds.
On or after the date on which the performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge of VOC emissions that exceed 0.90 kilogram of VOC's per liter of applied coating solids from any surface coating operation on a large appliance surface coating line.
§ 60.453
Performance test and compliance provisions.
(a) Sections 60.8 (d) and (f) do not apply to the performance test procedures required by this subpart.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8(a) and thereafter a performance test each calendar month for each affected facility according to the procedures in this paragraph.
(1) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for any affected facility that does not use a capture system and control device to comply with the emissions limit specified under § 60.452. The owner or operator shall determine the composition of the coatings by formulation data supplied by the coating manufacturer or by analysis of each coating, as received, using Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the coating manufacturer to determine the VOC content of coatings using Method 24. The owner or operator shall determine the volume of coating and the mass of VOC-solvent used for thinning purposes from company records on a monthly basis. If a common coating distribution system serves more than one affected facility or serves both affected and existing facilities, the owner or operator shall estimate the volume of coatings used at each facility, by using the average dry weight of coating and the surface area coated by each affected and existing facility or by other procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, the weighted average of the total mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied each calendar month will be determined as follows.
(A) Calculate the mass of VOC's consumed (M
o
+ M
d
) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.035
(ΣL
dj
D
dj
will be 0 if no VOC-solvent is added to the coatings, as received)
where:
n is the number of different coatings used during the calendar month, and
m is the number of different VOC-solvents added to coatings during the calendar month.
(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used (L
s
) in the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.036
where n is the number of different coatings used during the calendar month.
(C) Select the appropriate transfer efficiency from table 1. If the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that transfer efficiencies other than those shown are appropriate, the Administrator will approve their use on a case-by-case basis. Transfer efficiencies for application methods not listed shall be determined by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis. An owner or operator must submit sufficient data for the Administrator to judge the accuracy of the transfer efficiency claims.
Table 1—Transfer Efficiencies
Application method
Transfer efficiency (T
k
)
Air-atomized spray
0.40
Airless spray
0.45
Manual electrostatic spray
0.60
Flow coat
0.85
Dip coat
0.85
Nonrotational automatic electrostatic spray
0.85
Rotating head automatic electrostatic spray
0.90
Electrodeposition
0.95
Where more than one application method is used within a single surface coating operation, the owner or operator shall determine the composition and volume of each coating applied by each method through a means acceptable to the Administrator and compute the weighted average transfer efficiency by the following equation:
ER17oc00.012
where:
n is the number of coatings (or input streams) used, and
m is the number of application methods used.
(D) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.038
(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.039
(iii) Where the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's discharged to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) is equal to or less
than 0.90 kilogram per liter, the affected facility is in compliance.
(iv) If each individual coating used by an affected facility has a VOC content, as received, which when divided by the lowest transfer efficiency at which the coating is applied, results in a value equal to or less than 0.90 kilogram per liter, the affected facility is in compliance, provided no VOC's are added to the coating during distribution or application.
(2) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for any affected facility that uses a capture system and a control device that destroys VOC's (e.g., incinerator) to comply with the emission limit specified under § 60.452.
(i) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R) for the capture system and control device. For the initial performance test the overall reduction efficiency (R) shall be determined as prescribed in A, B, and C below. In subsequent months, the owner or operator may use the most recently determined overall reduction efficiency (R) for the performance test, providing control device and capture system operating conditions have not changed. The procedure in A, B, and C, below, shall be repeated when directed by the Administrator or when the owner or operator elects to operate the control device or capture system at conditions different from the initial performance test.
(A) Determine the fraction (F) of total VOC's emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device using the following equation:
ER17oc00.013
where:
n is the number of gas streams entering the control device
p is the number of gas streams emitted directly to the atmosphere.
ER17oc00.014
where:
n is the number of gas streams entering the control device, and
m is the number of gas streams leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere.
(B) Determine the destruction efficiency of the control device (E) using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the device by the following equation:
(C) Determine overall reduction efficiency (R) using the following equation:
R = EF (8)
(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's per unit volume of applied coating solids (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equations (1), (2), (3) if applicable, and (4).
(iii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during each calendar month by the following equation:
N = G(1−R) (9)
(iv) If the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is equal to or less than 0.90 kilogram per liter of applied coating solids, the affected facility is in compliance.
(3) An owner or operator shall use the following procedure for any affected facility that uses a control device for VOC recovery (e.g., carbon adsorber) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.452.
(i) Calculate the total mass of VOC's consumed (M
o
+ M
d
) and the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's per unit volume of applied coating solids (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equations (1), (2), (3) if applicable, and (4).
(ii) Calculate the total mass of VOC's recovered (M
r
) during each calendar month using the following equation:
M
r
= L
r
D
r
(10)
(iii) Calculate overall reduction efficiency of the control device (R) for each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.040
(iv) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere (N) for each calendar month for each affected facility using equation (9).
(v) If the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is equal to or less than 0.90 kilogram per liter of applied coating solids, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is considered a performance test.
[47 FR 47785, Oct. 27, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.454
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a capture system and an incinerator to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.452 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate temperature measurement devices as prescribed below:
(1) Where thermal incineration is used, a temperature measurement device shall be installed in the firebox. Where catalytic incineration is used, a temperature measurement device shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.
(2) Each temperature measurement device shall be installed, calibrated, and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications. The device shall have an accuracy of 0.75 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 °C, whichever is greater.
(3) Each temperature measurement device shall be equipped with a recording device so that a permanent continuous record is produced.
[47 FR 47785, Oct. 27, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.455
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The reporting requirements of § 60.8(a) apply only to the initial performance test. Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include the following data in the report of the initial performance test required under § 60.8(a):
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) for a period of 1 calendar month from each affected facility.
(2) For each affected facility where compliance is determined under the provisions of § 60.453(b)(1)(iv), a list of the coatings used during a period of 1 calendar month, the VOC content of each coating calculated from data determined using Reference Method 24 or supplied by the coating manufacturer, and the minimum transfer efficiency of any coating application equipment used during the month.
(3) For each affected facility where compliance is achieved through use of an incineration system, the following additional information will be reported:
(i) The proportion of total VOC's emitted that enters the control device (F),
(ii) The VOC reduction efficiency of the control device (E),
(iii) The average combustion temperature (or the average temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed), and
(iv) A description of the method used to establish the amount of VOC's captured and sent to the incinerator.
(4) For each affected facility where compliance is achieved through use of a solvent recovery system, the following additional information will be reported:
(i) The volume of VOC-solvent recovered (L
r
), and
(ii) The overall VOC emission reduction achieved (R).
(b) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit a written report to the Administrator every calendar quarter of each instance in which the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) is greater than the limit specified under § 60.452. If no such instances have occurred during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually.
(c) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) the following:
(1) Where compliance with § 60.452 is achieved through use of thermal incineration, each 3-hour period of coating operation during which the average temperature of the device was more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the average temperature of the device during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.453.
(2) Where compliance with § 60.452 is achieved through the use of catalytic incineration, each 3-hour period of coating operation during which the average temperature recorded immediately before the catalyst bed is more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the average temperature at the same location during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.453. Additionally, all 3-hour periods of coating operation during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than 80 percent of the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.453 will be recorded.
(3) For thermal and catalytic incinerators, if no such periods as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section occur, the owner or operator shall state this in the report.
(d) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain at the source, for a period of at least 2 years, records of all data and calculations used to determine VOC emissions from each affected facility. Where compliance is achieved through the use of thermal incineration, each owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the incinerator combustion chamber temperature. If catalytic incineration is used, the owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the gas temperature, both upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed. Where compliance is achieved through the use of a solvent recovery system, the owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the amount of solvent recovered by the system for each affected facility.
[47 FR 47785, Oct. 27, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 51383, Dec. 13, 1990; 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.456
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The reference methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided under § 60.8(b), shall be used to determine compliance with § 60.452 as follows:
(1) Method 24 or formulation data supplied by the coating manufacturer to determine the VOC content of a coating. In the event of dispute, Method 24 shall be the reference method. For determining compliance only, results of Method 24 analyses of waterborne coatings shall be adjusted as described in Section 12.6 of Method 24. Procedures to determine VOC emissions are provided in § 60.453.
(2) Method 25 for the measurement of the VOC concentration in the gas stream vent.
(3) Method 1 for sample and velocity traverses.
(4) Method 2 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.
(5) Method 3 for gas analysis.
(6) Method 4 for stack gas moisture.
(b) For Method 24, the coating sample must be a 1-liter sample taken into a 1-liter container at a point where the sample will be representative of the coating material.
(c) For Method 25, the sample time for each of three runs is to be at least 60 minutes and the minimum sample volume is to be at least 0.003 dscm (0.1 dscf) except that shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other
factors, may be approved by the Administrator.
(d) The Administrator will approve sampling of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the testing of representative stacks would yield results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks.
[47 FR 47785, Oct. 27, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart TT—Standards of Performance for Metal Coil Surface Coating

# Source:
47 FR 49612, Nov. 1, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.460
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the following affected facilities in a metal coil surface coating operation: each prime coat operation, each finish coat operation, and each prime and finish coat operation combined when the finish coat is applied wet on wet over the prime coat and both coatings are cured simultaneously.
(b) This subpart applies to any facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after January 5, 1981.
§ 60.461
Definitions.
(a) All terms used in this subpart not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Act or in subpart A of this part.
Coating
means any organic material that is applied to the surface of metal coil.
Coating application station
means that portion of the metal coil surface coating operation where the coating is applied to the surface of the metal coil. Included as part of the coating application station is the flashoff area between the coating application station and the curing oven.
Curing oven
means the device that uses heat or radiation to dry or cure the coating applied to the metal coil.
Finish coat operation
means the coating application station, curing oven, and quench station used to apply and dry or cure the final coating(s) on the surface of the metal coil. Where only a single coating is applied to the metal coil, that coating is considered a finish coat.
Metal coil surface coating operation
means the application system used to apply an organic coating to the surface of any continuous metal strip with thickness of 0.15 millimeter (mm) (0.006 in.) or more that is packaged in a roll or coil.
Prime coat operation
means the coating application station, curing oven, and quench station used to apply and dry or cure the initial coating(s) on the surface of the metal coil.
Quench station
means that portion of the metal coil surface coating operation where the coated metal coil is cooled, usually by a water spray, after baking or curing.
VOC content
means the quantity, in kilograms per liter of coating solids, of volatile organic compounds (VOC's) in a coating.
(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
C
a
= the VOC concentration in each gas stream leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere (parts per million by volume, as carbon).
C
b
= the VOC concentration in each gas stream entering the control device (parts per million by volume, as carbon).
C
f
= the VOC concentration in each gas steam emitted directly to the atmosphere (parts per million by volume, as carbon).
D
c
= density of each coating, as received (kilograms per liter).
D
d
= density of each VOC-solvent added to coatings (kilograms per liter).
D
r
= density of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (kilograms per liter).
E= VOC destruction efficiency of the control device (fraction).
F= the proportion of total VOC's emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device (fraction).
G= volume-weighted average mass of VOC's in coatings consumed in a calendar month per unit volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter).
L
c
= the volume of each coating consumed, as received (liters).
L
d
= the volume of each VOC-solvent added to coatings (liters).
L
r
= the volume of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (liters).
L
s
= the volume of coating solids consumed (liters).
M
d
= the mass of VOC-solvent added to coatings (kilograms).
M
o
= the mass of VOC's in coatings consumed, as received (kilograms).
M
r
= the mass of VOC's recovered by an emission control device (kilograms).
N= the volume-weighted average mass of VOC emissions to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter).
Q
a
= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere (dry standard cubic meters per hour).
Q
b
= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream entering the control device (dry standard cubic meters per hour).
Q
f
= the volumetric flow rate of each gas steam emitted directly to the atmosphere (dry standard cubic meters per hour).
R= the overall VOC emission reduction achieved for an affected facility (fraction).
S= the calculated monthly allowable emission limit (kilograms of VOC per liter of coating solids applied).
V
s
= the proportion of solids in each coating, as received (fraction by volume).
W
o
= the proportion of VOC's in each coating, as received (fraction by weight).
§ 60.462
Standards for volatile organic compounds.
(a) On and after the date on which § 60.8 requires a performance test to be completed, each owner or operator subject to this subpart shall not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere more than:
(1) 0.28 kilogram VOC per liter (kg VOC/
l
) of coating solids applied for each calendar month for each affected facility that does not use an emission control device(s); or
(2) 0.14 kg VOC/
l
of coating solids applied for each calendar month for each affected facility that continuously uses an emission control device(s) operated at the most recently demonstrated overall efficiency; or
(3) 10 percent of the VOC's applied for each calendar month (90 percent emission reduction) for each affected facility that continuously uses an emission control device(s) operated at the most recently demonstrated overall efficiency; or
(4) A value between 0.14 (or a 90-percent emission reduction) and 0.28 kg VOC/
l
of coating solids applied for each calendar month for each affected facility that intermittently uses an emission control device operated at the most recently demonstrated overall efficiency.
§ 60.463
Performance test and compliance provisions.
(a) Section 60.8(d) and (f) do not apply to the performance test.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8(a) and thereafter a performance test for each calendar month for each affected facility according to the procedures in this section.
(c) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for determining monthly volume-weighted average emissions of VOC's in kg/
l
of coating solids applied.
(1) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that does not use a capture system and control device to comply with the emission limit specified under § 60.462(a)(1). The owner or operator shall determine the composition of the coatings by formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating or by an analysisof each coating, as received, using Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coatings to determine the VOC content of coatings using Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method. The owner or operator shall determine the volume of coating and the mass of VOC-solvent added to coatings from company records on a monthly basis. If a common coating distribution system serves more than one affected facility or serves both affected and existing facilities, the owner or operator shall estimate the volume of coating used at each affected facility by using the average dry weight of coating and the surface area coated by each affected and existing facility or by other procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
(i) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied during each calendar month for each affected facility, except as provided under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. The weighted average of the total mass of VOC's used per unit volume of coating solids applied each calendar month is determined by the following procedures.
(A) Calculate the mass of VOC's used (Mo + Md) during each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.041
(ΣL
dj
D
dj
will be 0 if no VOC solvent is added to the coatings, as received)
where
n is the number of different coatings used during the calendar month, and
m is the number of different VOC solvents added to coatings used during the calendar month.
(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used (L
s
) in each calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.042
Where:
n is the number of different coatings used during the calendar month.
(C) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's used per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.043
(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during the calendar month for each affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.044
(iii) Where the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's discharged to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) is equal to or less than 0.28 kg/
l
, the affected facility is in compliance.
(iv) If each individual coating used by an affected facility has a VOC content, as received, that is equal to or less than 0.28 kg/
l
of coating solids, the affected facility is in compliance provided no VOC's are added to the coatings during distribution or application.
(2) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that continuously uses a capture system and a control device that destroys VOC's (e.g., incinerator) to comply with the emission limit specified under § 60.462(a) (2) or (3).
(i) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R) for the capture system and control device.
For the initial performance test, the overall reduction efficiency (R) shall be determined as prescribed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section. In subsequent months, the owner or operator may use the most recently determined overall reduction efficiency (R) for the performance test, providing control device and capture system operating conditions have not changed. The procedure in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section, shall be repeated when directed by the Administrator or when the owner or operator elects to operate the control device or capture system at conditions different from the initial performance test.
(A) Determine the fraction (F) of total VOC's emitted by an affected facility that enters the control device using the following equation:
EC01JN92.035
Equation 5
Where:
l
is the number of gas streams entering the control device, and
p is the number of gas streams emitted directly to the atmosphere.
(B) Determine the destruction efficiency of the control device (E) using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the device by the following equation:
EC01JN92.036
Equation 6
Where:
n is the number of gas streams entering the control device, and
m is the number of gas streams leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere.
The owner or operator of the affected facility shall construct the VOC emission reduction system so that all volumetric flow rates and total VOC emissions can be accurately determined by the applicable test methods and procedures specified in § 60.466. The owner or operator of the affected facility shall construct a temporary enclosure around the coating applicator and flashoff area during the performance test for the purpose of evaluating the capture efficiency of the system. The enclosure must be maintained at a negative pressure to ensure that all VOC emissions are measurable. If a permanent enclosure exists in the affected facility prior to the performance test and the Administrator is satisfied that the enclosure is adequately containing VOC emissions, no additional enclosure is required for the performance test.
(C) Determine overall reduction efficiency (R) using the following equation:
EC16NO91.045
If the overall reduction efficiency (R) is equal to or greater than 0.90, the affected facility is in compliance and no further computations are necessary. If the overall reduction efficiency (R) is less than 0.90, the average total VOC emissions to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) shall be computed as follows.
(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equations in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section.
(iii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during each calendar month by the following equation:
EC16NO91.046
(iv) If the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is less than or equal to 0.14 kg/
l
of coating solids applied, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test.
(3) An owner or operator shall use the following procedure for each affected facility that uses a control device that recovers the VOC's (e.g., carbon adsorber) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.462(a) (2) or (3).
(i) Calculate the total mass of VOC's consumed (M
o
+ M
d
) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equation (1).
(ii) Calculate the total mass of VOC's recovered (M
r
) during each calendar month using the following equation:
EC16NO91.047
(iii) Calculate the overall reduction efficiency of the control device (R) for each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.048
If the overall reduction efficiency (R) is equal to or greater than 0.90, the affected facility is in compliance and no further computations are necessary. If the overall reduction efficiency (R) is
less than 0.90, the average total VOC emissions to the atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (N) must be computed as follows.
(iv) Calculate the total volume of coating solids consumed (L
s
) and the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) during each calendar month for each affected facility using equations in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) (B) and (C) of this section.
(v) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere (N) for each calendar month for each affected facility using equation (8).
(vi) If the weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is less than or equal to 0.14 kg/
l
of coating solids applied, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test.
(4) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that intermittently uses a capture system and a control device to comply with the emission limit specified in § 60.462(a)(4).
(i) Calculate the total volume of coating solids applied without the control device in operation (L
sn
) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.049
Where:
n is the number of coatings used during the calendar month without the control device in operation.
(ii) Calculate the total volume of coating solids applied with the control device in operation (L
sc
) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.050
Where:
n is the number of coatings used during the calendar month with the control device in operation.
(iii) Calculate the mass of VOC's used without the control device in operation (M
on
+ M
dn
) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.051
Where:
n is the number of different coatings used without the control device in operation during the calendar month, and
m is the number of different VOC-solvents added to coatings used without the control device in operation during the calendar month.
(iv) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's consumed per unit volume of coating solids applied without the control device in operation (G
n
) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.052
(v) Calculate the mass of VOC's used with the control device in operation (M
oc
+ M
dc
) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.053
Where:
n is the number of different coatings used with the control device in operation during the calendar month, and
m is the number of different VOC-solvents added to coatings used with the control device in operation during the calendar month.
(vi) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC's used per unit volume of coating solids applied with the control device in operation (G
c
) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.054
(vii) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R) for the capture system and control device using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) (A), (B), and (C) or paragraphs (c)(3) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, whichever is applicable.
(viii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions to the atmosphere (N) during each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.055
Equation 17
(ix) Calculate the emission limit(s) for each calendar month for each affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.056
or
EC16NO91.057
whichever is greater.
(x) If the volume-weighted average mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere for each calendar month (N) is less than or equal to the calculated emission limit (S) for the calendar month, the affected facility is in compliance. Each monthly calculation is a performance test.
[47 FR 49612, Nov. 1, 1982; 48 FR 1056, Jan. 10, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.464
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) Where compliance with the numerical limit specified in § 60.462(a) (1) or (2) is achieved through the use of low VOC-content coatings without the use of emission control devices or through the use of higher VOC-content coatings in conjunction with emission control devices, the owner or operator shall compute and record the average VOC content of coatings applied during each calendar month for each affected facility, according to the equations provided in § 60.463.
(b) Where compliance with the limit specified in § 60.462(a)(4) is achieved through the intermittent use of emission control devices, the owner or operator shall compute and record for each affected facility the average VOC content of coatings applied during each calendar month according to the equations provided in § 60.463.
(c) If thermal incineration is used, each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a device that continuously records the combustion temperature of any effluent gases incinerated to achieve compliance with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4). This device shall have an accuracy of ±2.5 °C. or ±0.75 percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius, whichever is greater. Each owner or operator shall also record all periods (during actual coating operations) in excess of 3 hours during which the average temperature in any thermal incinerator used to control emissions from an affected facility remains more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the temperature at which compliance
with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4) was demonstrated during the most recent measurement of incinerator efficiency required by § 60.8. The records required by § 60.7 shall identify each such occurrence and its duration. If catalytic incineration is used, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a device to monitor and record continuously the gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed. This device shall have an accuracy of ±2.5 °C. or ±0.75 percent of the temperature being measured expressed in degrees Celsius, whichever is greater. During coating operations, the owner or operator shall record all periods in excess of 3 hours where the average difference between the temperature upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed remains below 80 percent of the temperature difference at which compliance was demonstrated during the most recent measurement of incinerator efficiency or when the inlet temperature falls more than 28 °C (50 °F) below the temperature at which compliance with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4) was demonstrated during the most recent measurement of incinerator efficiency required by § 60.8. The records required by § 60.7 shall identify each such occurrence and its duration.
[47 FR 49612, Nov. 1, 1982; 48 FR 1056, Jan. 10, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.465
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Where compliance with the numerical limit specified in § 60.462(a) (1), (2), or (4) is achieved through the use of low VOC-content coatings without emission control devices or through the use of higher VOC-content coatings in conjunction with emission control devices, each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include in the initial compliance report required by § 60.8 the weighted average of the VOC content of coatings used during a period of one calendar month for each affected facility. Where compliance with § 60.462(a)(4) is achieved through the intermittent use of a control device, reports shall include separate values of the weighted average VOC content of coatings used with and without the control device in operation.
(b) Where compliance with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4) is achieved through the use of an emission control device that destroys VOC's, each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall include the following data in the initial compliance report required by § 60.8:
(1) The overall VOC destruction rate used to attain compliance with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4) and the calculated emission limit used to attain compliance with § 60.462(a)(4); and
(2) The combustion temperature of the thermal incinerator or the gas temperature, both upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed, used to attain compliance with § 60.462(a)(2), (3), or (4).
(c) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit a written report to the Administrator every calendar quarter of each instance in which the volume-weighted average of the local mass of VOC's emitted to the atmosphere per volume of applied coating solids (N) is greater than the limit specified under § 60.462. If no such instances have occurred during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually.
(d) The owner or operator of each affected facility shall also submit reports at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) when the incinerator temperature drops as defined under § 60.464(c). If no such periods occur, the owner or operator shall state this in the report.
(e) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain at the source, for a period of at least 2 years, records of all data and calculations used to determine monthly VOC emissions from each affected facility and to determine the monthly emission limit, where applicable. Where compliance is achieved through the use of thermal incineration, each owner or operator shall maintain, at the source, daily records of the incinerator combustion temperature. If catalytic incineration is used, the owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the gas temperature,
both upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed.
[47 FR 49612, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 51383, Dec. 13, 1990; 56 FR 20497, May 3, 1991; 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.466
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The reference methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided under § 60.8(b), shall be used to determine compliance with § 60.462 as follows:
(1) Method 24, or data provided by the formulator of the coating, shall be used for determining the VOC content of each coating as applied to the surface of the metal coil. In the event of a dispute, Method 24 shall be the reference method. When VOC content of waterborne coatings, determined by Method 24, is used to determine compliance of affected facilities, the results of the Method 24 analysis shall be adjusted as described in Section 12.6 of Method 24;
(2) Method 25, both for measuring the VOC concentration in each gas stream entering and leaving the control device on each stack equipped with an emission control device and for measuring the VOC concentration in each gas stream emitted directly to the atmosphere;
(3) Method 1 for sample and velocity traverses;
(4) Method 2 for velocity and volumetric flow rate;
(5) Method 3 for gas analysis; and
(6) Method 4 for stack gas moisture.
(b) For Method 24, the coating sample must be at least a 1-liter sample taken at a point where the sample will be representative of the coating as applied to the surface of the metal coil.
(c) For Method 25, the sampling time for each of three runs is to be at least 60 minutes, and the minimum sampling volume is to be at least 0.003 dscm (0.11 dscf); however, shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other factors, may be approved by the Administrator.
(d) The Administrator will approve testing of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that testing of representative stacks yields results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks.
[47 FR 49612, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 22938, June 24, 1986; 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart UU—Standards of Performance for Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacture

# Source:
47 FR 34143, Aug. 6, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.470
Applicability and designation of affected facilities.
(a) The affected facilities to which this subpart applies are each saturator and each mineral handling and storage facility at asphalt roofing plants; and each asphalt storage tank and each blowing still at asphalt processing plants, petroleum refineries, and asphalt roofing plants.
(b) Any saturator or mineral handling and storage facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after November 18, 1980, is subject to the requirements of this subpart. Any asphalt storage tank or blowing still that processes and/or stores asphalt used for roofing only or for roofing and other purposes, and that commences construction or modification after November 18, 1980, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
Any asphalt storage tank or blowing still that processes and/or stores only nonroofing asphalts and that commences construction or modification after May 26, 1981, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 60.471
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Afterburner (A/B)
means an exhaust gas incinerator used to control emissions of particulate matter.
Asphalt processing
means the storage and blowing of asphalt.
Asphalt processing plant
means a plant which blows asphalt for use in the manufacture of asphalt products.
Asphalt roofing plant
means a plant which produces asphalt roofing products (shingles, roll roofing, siding, or saturated felt).
Asphalt storage tank
means any tank used to store asphalt at asphalt roofing plants, petroleum refineries, and asphalt processing plants. Storage tanks containing cutback asphalts (asphalts diluted with solvents to reduce viscosity for low temperature applications) and emulsified asphalts (asphalts dispersed in water with an emulsifying agent) are not subject to this regulation.
Blowing still
means the equipment in which air is blown through asphalt flux to change the softening point and penetration rate.
Catalyst
means a substance which, when added to asphalt flux in a blowing still, alters the penetrating-softening point relationship or increases the rate of oxidation of the flux.
Coating blow
means the process in which air is blown through hot asphalt flux to produce coating asphalt. The coating blow starts when the air is turned on and stops when the air is turned off.
Electrostatic precipitator (ESP)
means an air pollution control device in which solid or liquid particulates in a gas stream are charged as they pass through an electric field and precipitated on a collection suface.
High velocity air filter (HVAF)
means an air pollution control filtration device for the removal of sticky, oily, or liquid aerosol particulate matter from exhaust gas streams.
Mineral handling and storage facility
means the areas in asphalt roofing plants in which minerals are unloaded from a carrier, the conveyor transfer points between the carrier and the storage silos, and the storage silos.
Saturator
means the equipment in which asphalt is applied to felt to make asphalt roofing products. The term saturator includes the saturator, wet looper, and coater.
[47 FR 34143, Aug. 6, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.472
Standards for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which § 60.8(b) requires a performance test to be completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any saturator:
(1) Particulate matter in excess of:
(i) 0.04 kg/Mg (0.08 lb/ton) of asphalt shingle or mineral-surfaced roll roofing produced, or
(ii) 0.4 kg/Mg (0.8 lb/ton) of saturated felt or smooth-surfaced roll roofing produced;
(2) Exhaust gases with opacity greater than 20 percent; and
(3) Any visible emissions from a saturator capture system for more than 20 percent of any period of consecutive valid observations totaling 60 minutes. Saturators that were constructed before November 18, 1980, and that have not been reconstructed since that date and that become subject to these standards through modification are exempt from the visible emissions standard. Saturators that have been newly constructed or reconstructed since November 18, 1980 are subject to the visible emissions standard.
(b) On and after the date on which § 60.8(b) requires a performance test to be completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any blowing still:
(1) Particulate matter in excess of 0.67 kg/Mg (1.3 lb/ton) of asphalt charged to the still when a catalyst is added to the still; and
(2) Particulate matter in excess of 0.71 kg/Mg (1.4 lb/ton) of asphalt charged to the still when a catalyst is added to the still and when No. 6 fuel oil is fired in the afterburner; and
(3) Particulate matter in excess of 0.60 kg/Mg (1.2 lb/ton) of asphalt charged to the still during blowing without a catalyst; and
(4) Particulate matter in excess of 0.64 kg/Mg (1.3 lb/ton) of asphalt charged to the still during blowing without a catalyst and when No. 6 fuel oil is fired in the afterburner; and
(5) Exhaust gases with an opacity greater than 0 percent unless an opacity limit for the blowing still when fuel oil is used to fire the afterburner has been established by the Administrator in accordance with the procedures in § 60.474(g).
(c) Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but not later than 180 days after initial startup of such facility, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any asphalt storage tank exhaust gases with opacity greater than 0 percent, except for one consecutive 15-minute period in any 24-hour period when the transfer lines are being blown for clearing. The control device shall not be bypassed during this 15-minute period. If, however, the emissions from any asphalt storage tank(s) are ducted to a control device for a saturator, the combined emissions shall meet the emission limit contained in paragraph (a) of this section during the time the saturator control device is operating. At any other time the asphalt storage tank(s) must meet the opacity limit specified above for storage tanks.
(d) Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, but not later than 180 days after initial startup of such facility, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any mineral handling and storage facility emissions with opacity greater than 1 percent.
[47 FR 34143, Aug. 6, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 79 FR 11250, Feb. 27, 2014]
§ 60.473
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart, and using either an electrostatic precipitator or a high velocity air filter to meet the emission limit in § 60.472(a)(1) and/or (b)(1) shall continuously monitor and record the temperature of the gas at the inlet of the control device. The temperature monitoring instrument shall have an accuracy of ±15 °C (±25 °F) over its range.
(b) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and using an afterburner to meet the emission limit in § 60.472(a)(1) and/or (b)(1) shall continuously monitor and record the temperature in the combustion zone of the afterburner. The monitoring instrument shall have an accuracy of ±10 °C (±18 °F) over its range.
(c) An owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and using a control device not mentioned in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall provide to the Administrator information describing the operation of the control device and the process parameter(s) which would indicate proper operation and maintenance of the device. The Administrator may require continuous monitoring and will determine the process parameters to be monitored.
(d) The industry is exempted from the quarterly reports required under § 60.7(c). The owner/operator is required to record and report the operating temperature of the control device during the performance test and, as required by § 60.7(d), maintain a file of the temperature monitoring results for at least two years.
[47 FR 34143, Aug. 6, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.474
Test methods and procedures.
(a) For saturators, the owner or operator shall conduct performance tests required in § 60.8 as follows:
(1) If the final product is shingle or mineral-surfaced roll roofing, the tests shall be conducted while 106.6-kg (235-lb) shingle is being produced.
(2) If the final product is saturated felt or smooth-surfaced roll roofing, the tests shall be conducted while 6.8-kg (15-lb) felt is being produced.
(3) If the final product is fiberglass shingle, the test shall be conducted while a nominal 100-kg (220-lb) shingle is being produced.
(b) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.472 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = (c
s
Q
sd
)/(PK)
where:
E = emission rate of particulate matter, kg/Mg (lb/ton).
c
s
= concentration of particulate matter, g/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = asphalt roofing production rate or asphalt charging rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 g/kg [7000 (gr/lb)].
(2) Method 5A shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c
s
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. For a saturator, the sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 120 minutes and 3.00 dscm (106 dscf), and for the blowing still, at least 90 minutes or the duration of the coating blow or non-coating blow, whichever is greater, and 2.25 dscm (79.4 dscf).
(3) For the saturator, the asphalt roofing production rate (P) for each run shall be determined as follows: The amount of asphalt roofing produced on the shingle or saturated felt process lines shall be obtained by direct measurement. The asphalt roofing production rate is the amount produced divided by the time taken for the run.
(4) For the blowing still, the asphalt charging rate (P) shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
P = (Vd)/(K′ θ)
where:
P = asphalt charging rate to blowing still, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
V = volume of asphalt charged, m
3
(ft
3
).
d = density of asphalt, kg/m
3
(lb/ft
3
).
K′ = conversion factor, 1000 kg/Mg (2000 lb/ton).
θ = duration of test run, hr.
(i) The volume (V) of asphalt charged shall be measured by any means accurate to within 10 percent.
(ii) The density (d) of the asphalt shall be computed using the following equation:
ER17OC00.015
Where:
d = Density of the asphalt, kg/m
3
(lb/ft
3
)
K
1
= 1056.1 kg/m
3
(metric units)
= 64.70 lb/ft
3
(English Units)
K
2
= 0.6176 kg/(m
3
°C) (metric units)
= 0.0694 lb/(ft
3
°F) (English Units)
T
i
= temperature at the start of the blow, °C ( deg;F)
(5) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(d) The Administrator will determine compliance with the standards in § 60.472(a)(3) by using Method 22, modified so that readings are recorded every 15 seconds for a period of consecutive observations during representative conditions (in accordance with § 60.8(c)) totaling 60 minutes. A performance test shall consist of one run.
(e) The owner or operator shall use the monitoring device in § 60.473 (a) or (b) to monitor and record continuously the temperature during the particulate matter run and shall report the results to the Administrator with the performance test results.
(f) If at a later date the owner or operator believes that the emission limits in § 60.472(a) and (b) are being met even though one of the conditions listed in this paragraph exist, he may submit a written request to the Administrator to repeat the performance test and procedure outlined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1) The temperature measured in accordance with § 60.473(a) is exceeding that measured during the performance test.
(2) The temperature measured in accordance with § 60.473(b) is lower than that measured during the performance test.
(g) If fuel oil is to be used to fire an afterburner used to control emissions from a blowing still, the owner or operator may petition the Administrator in accordance with § 60.11(e) of the General Provisions to establish an opacity standard for the blowing still that will be the opacity standard when fuel oil is used to fire the afterburner. To obtain this opacity standard, the owner or operator must request the Administrator to determine opacity during an initial, or subsequent, performance test when fuel oil is used to fire the afterburner. Upon receipt of the results of the performance test, the Administrator will make a finding concerning compliance with the mass standard for the blowing still. If the Administrator finds that the facility was in compliance with the mass standard during the performance test but failed to meet the zero opacity
standard, the Administrator will establish and promulgate in the
Federal Register
an opacity standard for the blowing still that will be the opacity standard when fuel oil is used to fire the afterburner. When the afterburner is fired with natural gas, the zero percent opacity remains the applicable opacity standard.
[54 FR 6677, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended 54 FR 27016, June 27, 1989; 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart VV—Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry for which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After January 5, 1981, and on or Before November 7, 2006

# Source:
48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.480
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a)(1) The provisions of this subpart apply to affected facilities in the synthetic organic chemicals manufacturing industry.
(2) The group of all equipment (defined in § 60.481) within a process unit is an affected facility.
(b) Any affected facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction, or modification after January 5, 1981, and on or before November 7, 2006, shall be subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(c) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement which is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.
(d)(1) If an owner or operator applies for one or more of the exemptions in this paragraph, then the owner or operator shall maintain records as required in § 60.486(i).
(2) Any affected facility that has the design capacity to produce less than 1,000 Mg/yr (1,102 ton/yr) of a chemical listed in § 60.489 is exempt from §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10.
(3) If an affected facility produces heavy liquid chemicals only from heavy liquid feed or raw materials, then it is exempt from §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10.
(4) Any affected facility that produces beverage alcohol is exempt from §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10.
(5) Any affected facility that has no equipment in volatile organic compounds (VOC) service is exempt from §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10.
(e)
Alternative means of compliance
—(1)
Option to comply with part 65.
(i) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.482 through 60.487 for an affected facility. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, the requirements of §§ 60.485(d), (e), and (f) and 60.486(i) and (j) still apply. Other provisions applying to an owner or operator who chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1.
(ii)
Part 60, subpart A.
Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for that equipment. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) do not apply to owners and operators of equipment subject to this subpart complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.
(2)
Subpart VVa.
Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of subpart VVa of this part 60 to satisfy the requirements of this subpart VV for an affected facility.
(f)
Overlap with other regulations for flares.
Owners and operators of flares that are subject to the flare related requirements of this subpart and flare related requirements of any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR 61 or 63, may elect to comply with the requirements in § 60.619a, § 60.669a, or § 60.709a, in lieu of all flare related requirements
in any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 22607, May 30, 1984; 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78276, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64879, Nov. 16, 2007, 73 FR 31379, June 2, 2008; 73 FR 31375, June 2, 2008; 89 FR 43068, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.481
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act or in subpart A of part 60, and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.
Capital expenditure
means, in addition to the definition in 40 CFR 60.2, an expenditure for a physical or operational change to an existing facility that:
(a) Exceeds P, the product of the facility's replacement cost, R, and an adjusted annual asset guideline repair allowance, A, as reflected by the following equation: P = R × A, where
(1) The adjusted annual asset guideline repair allowance, A, is the product of the percent of the replacement cost, Y, and the applicable basic annual asset guideline repair allowance, B, divided by 100 as reflected by the following equation:
A = Y × (B ÷ 100);
(2) The percent Y is determined from the following equation: Y = 1.0 − 0.575 log X, where X is 1982 minus the year of construction; and
(3) The applicable basic annual asset guideline repair allowance, B, is selected from the following table consistent with the applicable subpart:
Table for Determining Applicable Value for B
Subpart applicable to facility
Value of B to be used in equation
VV
12.5
DDD
12.5
GGG
7.0
KKK
4.5
Closed-loop system
means an enclosed system that returns process fluid to the process.
Closed-purge system
means a system or combination of systems and portable containers to capture purged liquids. Containers for purged liquids must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.
Closed vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that is composed of hard-piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from a piece or pieces of equipment to a control device or back to a process.
Connector
means flanged, screwed, or other joined fittings used to connect two pipe lines or a pipe line and a piece of process equipment or that close an opening in a pipe that could be connected to another pipe. Joined fittings welded completely around the circumference of the interface are not considered connectors for the purpose of this subpart.
Control device
means an enclosed combustion device, vapor recovery system, or flare.
Distance piece
means an open or enclosed casing through which the piston rod travels, separating the compressor cylinder from the crankcase.
Double block and bleed system
means two block valves connected in series with a bleed valve or line that can vent the line between the two block valves.
Duct work
means a conveyance system such as those commonly used for heating and ventilation systems. It is often made of sheet metal and often has sections connected by screws or crimping. Hard-piping is not ductwork.
Equipment
means each pump, compressor, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, and flange or other connector in VOC service and any devices or systems required by this subpart.
First attempt at repair
means to take action for the purpose of stopping or reducing leakage of organic material to the atmosphere using best practices.
Fuel gas
means gases that are combusted to derive useful work or heat.
Fuel gas system
means the offsite and onsite piping and flow and pressure control system that gathers gaseous stream(s) generated by onsite operations, may blend them with other sources of gas, and transports the gaseous stream for use as fuel gas in combustion devices or in-process combustion equipment, such as furnaces and gas turbines, either singly or in combination.
Hard-piping
means pipe or tubing that is manufactured and properly installed using good engineering judgment and standards such as ASME B31.3, Process Piping (available from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, PO Box 2300, Fairfield, NJ 07007-2300).
In gas/vapor service
means that the piece of equipment contains process fluid that is in the gaseous state at operating conditions.
In heavy liquid service
means that the piece of equipment is not in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.
In light liquid service
means that the piece of equipment contains a liquid that meets the conditions specified in § 60.485(e).
In-situ sampling systems
means nonextractive samplers or in-line samplers.
In vacuum service
means that equipment is operating at an internal pressure which is at least 5 kilopascals (kPa)(0.7 psia) below ambient pressure.
In VOC service
means that the piece of equipment contains or contacts a process fluid that is at least 10 percent VOC by weight. (The provisions of § 60.485(d) specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in VOC service.)
Liquids dripping
means any visible leakage from the seal including spraying, misting, clouding, and ice formation.
Open-ended valve or line
means any valve, except safety relief valves, having one side of the valve seat in contact with process fluid and one side open to the atmosphere, either directly or through open piping.
Pressure release
means the emission of materials resulting from system pressure being greater than set pressure of the pressure relief device.
Process improvement
means routine changes made for safety and occupational health requirements, for energy savings, for better utility, for ease of maintenance and operation, for correction of design deficiencies, for bottleneck removal, for changing product requirements, or for environmental control.
Process unit
means components assembled to produce, as intermediate or final products, one or more of the chemicals listed in § 60.489 of this part. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient feed or raw materials and sufficient storage facilities for the product.
Process unit shutdown
means a work practice or operational procedure that stops production from a process unit or part of a process unit during which it is technically feasible to clear process material from a process unit or part of a process unit consistent with safety constraints and during which repairs can be accomplished. The following are not considered process unit shutdowns:
(1) An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that stops production from a process unit or part of a process unit for less than 24 hours.
(2) An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that would stop production from a process unit or part of a process unit for a shorter period of time than would be required to clear the process unit or part of the process unit of materials and start up the unit, and would result in greater emissions than delay of repair of leaking components until the next scheduled process unit shutdown.
(3) The use of spare equipment and technically feasible bypassing of equipment without stopping production.
Quarter
means a 3-month period; the first quarter concludes on the last day of the last full month during the 180 days following initial startup.
Repaired
means that equipment is adjusted, or otherwise altered, in order to eliminate a leak as defined in the applicable sections of this subpart and, except for leaks identified in accordance with §§ 60.482-2(b)(2)(ii) and (d)(6)(ii) and (iii), 60.482-3(f), and 60.482-10(f)(1)(ii), is re-monitored as specified in § 60.485(b) to verify that emissions from the equipment are below the applicable leak definition.
Replacement cost
means the capital needed to purchase all the depreciable components in a facility.
Sampling connection system
means an assembly of equipment within a process unit used during periods of representative operation to take samples of the process fluid. Equipment used to take nonroutine grab samples is not considered a sampling connection system.
Sensor
means a device that measures a physical quantity or the change in a physical quantity such as temperature, pressure, flow rate, pH, or liquid level.
Storage vessel
means a tank or other vessel that is used to store organic liquids that are used in the process as raw material feedstocks, produced as intermediates or final products, or generated as wastes. Storage vessel does not include vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles, such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships.
Synthetic organic chemicals manufacturing industry
means the industry that produces, as intermediates or final products, one or more of the chemicals listed in § 60.489.
Transfer rack
means the collection of loading arms and loading hoses, at a single loading rack, that are used to fill tank trucks and/or railcars with organic liquids.
Volatile organic compounds
or VOC means, for the purposes of this subpart, any reactive organic compounds as defined in § 60.2 Definitions.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 22607, May 30, 1984; 49 FR 26738, June 29, 1984; 60 FR 43258, Aug. 18, 1995; 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78276, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64879, Nov. 16, 2007; 89 FR 43068, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.482-1
Standards: General.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10 or § 60.480(e) for all equipment within 180 days of initial startup.
(b) Compliance with §§ 60.482-1 to 60.482-10 will be determined by review of records and reports, review of performance test results, and inspection using the methods and procedures specified in § 60.485.
(c)(1) An owner or operator may request a determination of equivalence of a means of emission limitation to the requirements of §§ 60.482-2, 60.482-3, 60.482-5, 60.482-6, 60.482-7, 60.482-8, and 60.482-10 as provided in § 60.484.
(2) If the Administrator makes a determination that a means of emission limitation is at least equivalent to the requirements of § 60.482-2, § 60.482-3, § 60.482-5, § 60.482-6, § 60.482-7, § 60.482-8, or § 60.482-10, an owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of that determination.
(d) Equipment that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2 to 60.482-10 if it is identified as required in § 60.486(e)(5).
(e) Equipment that an owner or operator designates as being in VOC service less than 300 hours (hr)/yr is excluded from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2 through 60.482-10 if it is identified as required in § 60.486(e)(6) and it meets any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The equipment is in VOC service only during startup and shutdown, excluding startup and shutdown between batches of the same campaign for a batch process.
(2) The equipment is in VOC service only during process malfunctions or other emergencies.
(3) The equipment is backup equipment that is in VOC service only when the primary equipment is out of service.
(f)(1) If a dedicated batch process unit operates less than 365 days during a year, an owner or operator may monitor to detect leaks from pumps and valves at the frequency specified in the following table instead of monitoring as specified in §§ 60.482-2, 60.482-7, and 60.483-2:
Operating time (percent of hours during year)
Equivalent monitoring frequency time in use
Monthly
Quarterly
Semiannually
0 to
25
Quarterly
Annually
Annually.
25 to
50
Quarterly
Semiannually
Annually.
50 to
75
Bimonthly
Three quarters
Semiannually.
75 to 100
Monthly
Quarterly
Semiannually.
(2) Pumps and valves that are shared among two or more batch process units that are subject to this subpart may be monitored at the frequencies specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, provided the operating time of all such process units is considered.
(3) The monitoring frequencies specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are not requirements for monitoring at specific intervals and can be adjusted to accommodate process operations. An owner or operator may monitor at any time during the specified monitoring
period (e.g., month, quarter, year), provided the monitoring is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the last monitoring campaign. Reasonable intervals are defined in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) When monitoring is conducted quarterly, monitoring events must be separated by at least 30 calendar days.
(ii) When monitoring is conducted semiannually (
i.e.
, once every 2 quarters), monitoring events must be separated by at least 60 calendar days.
(iii) When monitoring is conducted in 3 quarters per year, monitoring events must be separated by at least 90 calendar days.
(iv) When monitoring is conducted annually, monitoring events must be separated by at least 120 calendar days.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 22608, May 30, 1984; 65 FR 78276, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64880, Nov. 16, 2007; 89 FR 43068, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.482-2
Standards: Pumps in light liquid service.
(a)(1) Each pump in light liquid service shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.485(b), except as provided in § 60.482-1(c) and (f) and paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section. A pump that begins operation in light liquid service after the initial startup date for the process unit must be monitored for the first time within 30 days after the end of its startup period, except for a pump that replaces a leaking pump and except as provided in § 60.482-1(c) and (f) and paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(2) Each pump in light liquid service shall be checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, except as provided in § 60.482-1(f).
(b)(1) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(2) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. This requirement does not apply to a pump that was monitored after a previous weekly inspection if the instrument reading for that monitoring event was less than 10,000 ppm and the pump was not repaired since that monitoring event.
(i) Monitor the pump within 5 days as specified in § 60.485(b). If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected. The leak shall be repaired using the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) Designate the visual indications of liquids dripping as a leak, and repair the leak within 15 days of detection by eliminating the visual indications of liquids dripping.
(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected. First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the practices described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, where practicable.
(i) Tightening the packing gland nuts;
(ii) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.
(d) Each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, provided the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section are met.
(1) Each dual mechanical seal system is—
(i) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump stuffing box pressure; or
(ii) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10; or
(iii) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero VOC emissions to the atmosphere.
(2) The barrier fluid system is in heavy liquid service or is not in VOC service.
(3) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(4)(i) Each pump is checked by visual inspection, each calendar week, for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seals.
(ii) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) Monitor the pump within 5 days as specified in § 60.485(b) to determine if there is a leak of VOC in the barrier fluid. If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(B) Designate the visual indications of liquids dripping as a leak.
(5)(i) Each sensor as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section is checked daily or is equipped with an audible alarm.
(ii) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(iii) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, based on the criterion established in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected.
(6)(i) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, it shall be repaired as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) A leak detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section shall be repaired within 15 days of detection by eliminating the conditions that activated the sensor.
(iii) A designated leak pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(B) of this section shall be repaired within 15 days of detection by eliminating visual indications of liquids dripping.
(e) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 60.486(e)(1) and (2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section if the pump:
(1) Has no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump housing,
(2) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background as measured by the methods specified in § 60.485(c), and
(3) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(f) If any pump is equipped with a closed vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals to a process or to a fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10, it is exempt from paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(g) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 60.486(f)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor pump is exempt from the monitoring and inspection requirements of paragraphs (a) and (d)(4) through (6) of this section if:
(1) The owner or operator of the pump demonstrates that the pump is unsafe-to-monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The owner or operator of the pump has a written plan that requires monitoring of the pump as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and repair of the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section if a leak is detected.
(h) Any pump that is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site is exempt from the weekly visual inspection requirement of paragraphs (a)(2) and (d)(4) of this section, and the daily requirements of paragraph (d)(5) of this section, provided that each pump is visually inspected as often as practicable and at least monthly.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78276, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64880, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.482-3
Standards: Compressors.
(a) Each compressor shall be equipped with a seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and that prevents leakage of VOC to the atmosphere, except as provided in § 60.482-1(c) and paragraphs (h), (i), and (j) of this section.
(b) Each compressor seal system as required in paragraph (a) shall be:
(1) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is greater than the compressor stuffing box pressure; or
(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid system degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10; or
(3) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero VOC emissions to the atmosphere.
(c) The barrier fluid system shall be in heavy liquid service or shall not be in VOC service.
(d) Each barrier fluid system as described in paragraph (a) shall be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, barrier fluid system, or both.
(e)(1) Each sensor as required in paragraph (d) shall be checked daily or shall be equipped with an audible alarm.
(2) The owner or operator shall determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(f) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier system, or both based on the criterion determined under paragraph (e)(2), a leak is detected.
(g)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(h) A compressor is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, if it is equipped with a closed vent system to capture and transport leakage from the compressor drive shaft back to a process or fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) Any compressor that is designated, as described in § 60.486(e) (1) and (2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a)-(h) if the compressor:
(1) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the methods specified in § 60.485(c); and
(2) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(j) Any existing reciprocating compressor in a process unit which becomes an affected facility under provisions of § 60.14 or § 60.15 is exempt from paragraphs (a) through (e) and (h) of this section, provided the owner or operator demonstrates that recasting the distance piece or replacing the compressor are the only options available to bring the compressor into compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (e) and (h) of this section.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78277, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64881, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.482-4
Standards: Pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service.
(a) Except during pressure releases, each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service shall be operated with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as determined by the methods specified in § 60.485(c).
(b)(1) After each pressure release, the pressure relief device shall be returned to a condition of no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, except as provided in § 60.482-9.
(2) No later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, the pressure relief device shall be monitored to confirm the conditions of no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, by the methods specified in § 60.485(c).
(c) Any pressure relief device that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or equipped with a closed vent system
capable of capturing and transporting leakage through the pressure relief device to a control device as described in § 60.482-10 is exempted from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)(1) Any pressure relief device that is equipped with a rupture disk upstream of the pressure relief device is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, provided the owner or operator complies with the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) After each pressure release, a new rupture disk shall be installed upstream of the pressure relief device as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after each pressure release, except as provided in § 60.482-9.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78277, Dec. 14, 2000]
§ 60.482-5
Standards: Sampling connection systems.
(a) Each sampling connection system shall be equipped with a closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system, except as provided in § 60.482-1(c) and paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Gases displaced during filling of the sample container are not required to be collected or captured.
(2) Containers that are part of a closed-purge system must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.
(3) Gases remaining in the tubing or piping between the closed-purge system valve(s) and sample container valve(s) after the valves are closed and the sample container is disconnected are not required to be collected or captured.
(4) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system shall be designed and operated to meet requirements in either paragraph (b)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.
(i) Return the purged process fluid directly to the process line.
(ii) Collect and recycle the purged process fluid to a process.
(iii) Capture and transport all the purged process fluid to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10.
(iv) Collect, store, and transport the purged process fluid to any of the following systems or facilities:
(A) A waste management unit as defined in § 63.111, if the waste management unit is subject to and operated in compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to Group 1 wastewater streams;
(B) A treatment, storage, or disposal facility subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266;
(C) A facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a state to manage municipal or industrial solid waste, if the process fluids are not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261;
(D) A waste management unit subject to and operated in compliance with the treatment requirements of § 61.348(a), provided all waste management units that collect, store, or transport the purged process fluid to the treatment unit are subject to and operated in compliance with the management requirements of §§ 61.343 through 61.347; or
(E) A device used to burn off-specification used oil for energy recovery in accordance with 40 CFR part 279, subpart G, provided the purged process fluid is not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261.
(c) In situ sampling systems and sampling systems without purges are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[60 FR 43258, Aug. 18, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78277, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64881, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.482-6
Standards: Open-ended valves or lines.
(a)(1) Each open-ended valve or line shall be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve, except as provided in § 60.482-1(c) and paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(2) The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall seal the open end at all times except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line.
(b) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve shall be operated in a manner such that the valve on the process fluid end is closed before the second valve is closed.
(c) When a double block-and-bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall comply with paragraph (a) at all other times.
(d) Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system which are designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section.
(e) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which would autocatalytically polymerize or would present an explosion, serious overpressure, or other safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double block and bleed system as specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 22607, May 30, 1984; 65 FR 78277, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64881, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.482-7
Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.
(a)(1) Each valve shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.485(b) and shall comply with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, § 60.482-1(c) and (f), and §§ 60.483-1 and 60.483-2.
(2) A valve that begins operation in gas/vapor service or light liquid service after the initial startup date for the process unit must be monitored according to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii), except for a valve that replaces a leaking valve and except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, § 60.482-1(c), and §§ 60.483-1 and 60.483-2.
(i) Monitor the valve as in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The valve must be monitored for the first time within 30 days after the end of its startup period to ensure proper installation.
(ii) If the valves on the process unit are monitored in accordance with § 60.483-1 or § 60.483-2, count the new valve as leaking when calculating the percentage of valves leaking as described in § 60.483-2(b)(5). If less than 2.0 percent of the valves are leaking for that process unit, the valve must be monitored for the first time during the next scheduled monitoring event for existing valves in the process unit or within 90 days, whichever comes first.
(b) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(c)(1)(i) Any valve for which a leak is not detected for 2 successive months may be monitored the first month of every quarter, beginning with the next quarter, until a leak is detected.
(ii) As an alternative to monitoring all of the valves in the first month of a quarter, an owner or operator may elect to subdivide the process unit into 2 or 3 subgroups of valves and monitor each subgroup in a different month during the quarter, provided each subgroup is monitored every 3 months. The owner or operator must keep records of the valves assigned to each subgroup.
(2) If a leak is detected, the valve shall be monitored monthly until a leak is not detected for 2 successive months.
(d)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(e) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following best practices where practicable:
(1) Tightening of bonnet bolts;
(2) Replacement of bonnet bolts;
(3) Tightening of packing gland nuts;
(4) Injection of lubricant into lubricated packing.
(f) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486(e)(2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) if the valve:
(1) Has no external actuating mechanism in contact with the process fluid,
(2) Is operated with emissions less than 500 ppm above background as determined by the method specified in § 60.485(c), and
(3) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(g) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486(f)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) if:
(1) The owner or operator of the valve demonstrates that the valve is unsafe to monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a), and
(2) The owner or operator of the valve adheres to a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times.
(h) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486(f)(2), as a difficult-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) if:
(1) The owner or operator of the valve demonstrates that the valve cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface.
(2) The process unit within which the valve is located either becomes an affected facility through § 60.14 or § 60.15 or the owner or operator designates less than 3.0 percent of the total number of valves as difficult-to-monitor, and
(3) The owner or operator of the valve follows a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve at least once per calendar year.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 22608, May 30, 1984; 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 72 FR 64881, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.482-8
Standards: Pumps and valves in heavy liquid service, pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service, and connectors.
(a) If evidence of a potential leak is found by visual, audible, olfactory, or any other detection method at pumps and valves in heavy liquid service, pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service, and connectors, the owner or operator shall follow either one of the following procedures:
(1) The owner or operator shall monitor the equipment within 5 days by the method specified in § 60.485(b) and shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(2) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual, audible, olfactory, or other indication of a potential leak within 5 calendar days of detection.
(b) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9.
(2) The first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(d) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the best practices described under §§ 60.482-2(c)(2) and 60.482-7(e).
[48 CFR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 78277, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64882, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.482-9
Standards: Delay of repair.
(a) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed if repair within 15 days is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur before the end of the next process unit shutdown. Monitoring to verify repair must occur within 15 days after startup of the process unit.
(b) Delay of repair of equipment will be allowed for equipment which is isolated from the process and which does not remain in VOC service.
(c) Delay of repair for valves will be allowed if:
(1) The owner or operator demonstrates that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and
(2) When repair procedures are effected, the purged material is collected
and destroyed or recovered in a control device complying with § 60.482-10.
(d) Delay of repair for pumps will be allowed if:
(1) Repair requires the use of a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system, and
(2) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.
(e) Delay of repair beyond a process unit shutdown will be allowed for a valve, if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the process unit shutdown, valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted. Delay of repair beyond the next process unit shutdown will not be allowed unless the next process unit shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first process unit shutdown.
(f) When delay of repair is allowed for a leaking pump or valve that remains in service, the pump or valve may be considered to be repaired and no longer subject to delay of repair requirements if two consecutive monthly monitoring instrument readings are below the leak definition.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 78277, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64882, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.482-10
Standards: Closed vent systems and control devices.
(a) Owners or operators of closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of this section.
(b) Vapor recovery systems (for example, condensers and absorbers) shall be designed and operated to recover the VOC emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent.
(c) Enclosed combustion devices shall be designed and operated to reduce the VOC emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent or to provide a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds at a minimum temperature of 816 °C.
(d) Flares used to comply with this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 60.18.
(e) Owners or operators of control devices used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall monitor these control devices to ensure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their designs.
(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (i) through (k) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.
(1) If the vapor collection system or closed vent system is constructed of hard-piping, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(ii) of this section:
(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 60.485(b); and
(ii) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.
(2) If the vapor collection system or closed vent system is constructed of ductwork, the owner or operator shall:
(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 60.485(b); and
(ii) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures in § 60.485(b).
(g) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million by volume above background or by visual inspections, shall be repaired as soon as practicable except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(1) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(2) Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(h) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair.
Repair of such equipment shall be complete by the end of the next process unit shutdown.
(i) If a vapor collection system or closed vent system is operated under a vacuum, it is exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section.
(j) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section, as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section if they comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section:
(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (f)(2) of this section; and
(2) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.
(k) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, as difficult to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section if they comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(3) of this section:
(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and
(2) The process unit within which the closed vent system is located becomes an affected facility through §§ 60.14 or 60.15, or the owner or operator designates less than 3.0 percent of the total number of closed vent system equipment as difficult to inspect; and
(3) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years. A closed vent system is exempt from inspection if it is operated under a vacuum.
(l) The owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(5) of this section.
(1) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.
(2) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as difficult to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is difficult to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.
(3) For each inspection during which a leak is detected, a record of the information specified in § 60.486(c).
(4) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 60.485(b) during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.
(5) For each visual inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.
(m) Closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions may be vented to them.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 2702, Jan. 21, 1986; 60 FR 43258, Aug. 18, 1995; 61 FR 29878, June 12, 1996; 65 FR 78277, Dec. 14, 2000]
§ 60.483-1
Alternative standards for valves—allowable percentage of valves leaking.
(a) An owner or operator may elect to comply with an allowable percentage of valves leaking of equal to or less than 2.0 percent.
(b) The following requirements shall be met if an owner or operator wishes to comply with an allowable percentage of valves leaking:
(1) An owner or operator must notify the Administrator that the owner or operator has elected to comply with the allowable percentage of valves leaking before implementing this alternative standard, as specified in § 60.487(d).
(2) A performance test as specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be conducted initially upon designation,
annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(3) If a valve leak is detected, it shall be repaired in accordance with § 60.482-7(d) and (e).
(c) Performance tests shall be conducted in the following manner:
(1) All valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service within the affected facility shall be monitored within 1 week by the methods specified in § 60.485(b).
(2) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(3) The leak percentage shall be determined by dividing the number of valves for which leaks are detected by the number of valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service within the affected facility.
(d) Owners and operators who elect to comply with this alternative standard shall not have an affected facility with a leak percentage greater than 2.0 percent, determined as described in § 60.485(h).
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78278, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64882, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.483-2
Alternative standards for valves—skip period leak detection and repair.
(a)(1) An owner or operator may elect to comply with one of the alternative work practices specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) An owner or operator must notify the Administrator before implementing one of the alternative work practices, as specified in § 60.487(d).
(b)(1) An owner or operator shall comply initially with the requirements for valves in gas/vapor service and valves in light liquid service, as described in § 60.482-7.
(2) After 2 consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percent of valves leaking equal to or less than 2.0, an owner or operator may begin to skip 1 of the quarterly leak detection periods for the valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service.
(3) After 5 consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percent of valves leaking equal to or less than 2.0, an owner or operator may begin to skip 3 of the quarterly leak detection periods for the valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service.
(4) If the percent of valves leaking is greater than 2.0, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements as described in § 60.482-7 but can again elect to use this section.
(5) The percent of valves leaking shall be determined as described in § 60.485(h).
(6) An owner or operator must keep a record of the percent of valves found leaking during each leak detection period.
(7) A valve that begins operation in gas/vapor service or light liquid service after the initial startup date for a process unit following one of the alternative standards in this section must be monitored in accordance with § 60.482-7(a)(2)(i) or (ii) before the provisions of this section can be applied to that valve.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78278, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64882, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.484
Equivalence of means of emission limitation.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart may apply to the Administrator for determination of equivalence for any means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions of VOC achieved by the controls required in this subpart.
(b) Determination of equivalence to the equipment, design, and operational requirements of this subpart will be evaluated by the following guidelines:
(1) Each owner or operator applying for an equivalence determination shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data to demonstrate equivalence of means of emission limitation.
(2) The Administrator will compare test data for demonstrating equivalence of the means of emission limitation to test data for the equipment, design, and operational requirements.
(3) The Administrator may condition the approval of equivalence on requirements that may be necessary to assure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emission reduction as the
equipment, design, and operational requirements.
(c) Determination of equivalence to the required work practices in this subpart will be evaluated by the following guidelines:
(1) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data to demonstrate equivalence of an equivalent means of emission limitation.
(2) For each affected facility for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the required work practice shall be demonstrated.
(3) For each affected facility, for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the equivalent means of emission limitation shall be demonstrated.
(4) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence shall commit in writing to work practice(s) that provide for emission reductions equal to or greater than the emission reductions achieved by the required work practice.
(5) The Administrator will compare the demonstrated emission reduction for the equivalent means of emission limitation to the demonstrated emission reduction for the required work practices and will consider the commitment in paragraph (c)(4).
(6) The Administrator may condition the approval of equivalence on requirements that may be necessary to assure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emission reduction as the required work practice.
(d) An owner or operator may offer a unique approach to demonstrate the equivalence of any equivalent means of emission limitation.
(e)(1) After a request for determination of equivalence is received, the Administrator will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
and provide the opportunity for public hearing if the Administrator judges that the request may be approved.
(2) After notice and opportunity for public hearing, the Administrator will determine the equivalence of a means of emission limitation and will publish the determination in the
Federal Register.
(3) Any equivalent means of emission limitations approved under this section shall constitute a required work practice, equipment, design, or operational standard within the meaning of section 111(h)(1) of the Clean Air Act.
(f)(1) Manufacturers of equipment used to control equipment leaks of VOC may apply to the Administrator for determination of equivalence for any equivalent means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC achieved by the equipment, design, and operational requirements of this subpart.
(2) The Administrator will make an equivalence determination according to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61762, Oct. 17, 2000; 72 FR 64882, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 60.485
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the standards in §§ 60.482-1 through 60.482-10, 60.483, and 60.484 as follows:
(1) Method 21 shall be used to determine the presence of leaking sources. The instrument shall be calibrated before use each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21. The following calibration gases shall be used:
(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air); and
(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration of about, but less than, 10,000 ppm methane or n-hexane.
(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the no detectable emission standards in §§ 60.482-2(e), 60.482-3(i), 60.482-4, 60.482-7(f), and 60.482-10(e) as follows:
(1) The requirements of paragraph (b) shall apply.
(2) Method 21 shall be used to determine the background level. All potential leak interfaces shall be traversed
as close to the interface as possible. The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level is compared with 500 ppm for determining compliance.
(d) The owner or operator shall test each piece of equipment unless he demonstrates that a process unit is not in VOC service, i.e., that the VOC content would never be reasonably expected to exceed 10 percent by weight. For purposes of this demonstration, the following methods and procedures shall be used:
(1) Procedures that conform to the general methods in ASTM E260-73, 91, or 96, E168-67, 77, or 92, E169-63, 77, or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the percent VOC content in the process fluid that is contained in or contacts a piece of equipment.
(2) Organic compounds that are considered by the Administrator to have negligible photochemical reactivity may be excluded from the total quantity of organic compounds in determining the VOC content of the process fluid.
(3) Engineering judgment may be used to estimate the VOC content, if a piece of equipment had not been shown previously to be in service. If the Administrator disagrees with the judgment, paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section shall be used to resolve the disagreement.
(e) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that a piece of equipment is in light liquid service by showing that all the following conditions apply:
(1) The vapor pressure of one or more of the organic components is greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H
2
O at 68 °F). Standard reference texts or ASTM D2879-83, 96, or 97 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the vapor pressures.
(2) The total concentration of the pure organic components having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H
2
O at 68 °F) is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight.
(3) The fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.
(f) Samples used in conjunction with paragraphs (d), (e), and (g) of this section shall be representative of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts the equipment or the gas being combusted in the flare.
(g) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the standards of flares as follows:
(1) Method 22 shall be used to determine visible emissions.
(2) A thermocouple or any other equivalent device shall be used to monitor the presence of a pilot flame in the flare.
(3) The maximum permitted velocity for air assisted flares shall be computed using the following equation:
ER17OC00.016
Where:
V
max
= Maximum permitted velocity, m/sec (ft/sec)
H
T
= Net heating value of the gas being combusted, MJ/scm (Btu/scf).
K
1
= 8.706 m/sec (metric units)
= 28.56 ft/sec (English units)
K
2
= 0.7084 m
4
/(MJ-sec) (metric units)
= 0.087 ft
4
/(Btu-sec) (English units)
(4) The net heating value (H
T
) of the gas being combusted in a flare shall be computed using the following equation:
ER16NO07.039
Where:
K = Conversion constant, 1.740 × 10
−7
(g-mole)(MJ)/(ppm-scm-kcal) (metric units) = 4.674 × 10
−6
[(g-mole)(Btu)/(ppm-scf-kcal)] (English units)
C
i
= Concentration of sample component “i,” ppm
H
i
= Net heat of combustion of sample component “i” at 25 °C and 760 mm Hg (77 °F and 14.7 psi), kcal/g-mole
(5) Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part and ASTM D2504-67, 77 or 88 (Reapproved 1993) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the concentration of sample component “i.” ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) may be used in lieu of Method 18, under the conditions specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) If the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable.
(ii) ASTM D6420-18 may not be used for methane and ethane.
(iii) ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method.
(6) ASTM D2382-76 or 88 or D4809-95 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the net heat of combustion of component “i” if published values are not available or cannot be calculated.
(7) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D, as appropriate, shall be used to determine the actual exit velocity of a flare. If needed, the unobstructed (free) cross-sectional area of the flare tip shall be used.
(h) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with § 60.483-1 or § 60.483-2 as follows:
(1) The percent of valves leaking shall be determined using the following equation:
%V
L
= (V
L
/V
T
) * 100
Where:
%V
L
= Percent leaking valves
V
L
= Number of valves found leaking
V
T
= The sum of the total number of valves monitored
(2) The total number of valves monitored shall include difficult-to-monitor and unsafe-to-monitor valves only during the monitoring period in which those valves are monitored.
(3) The number of valves leaking shall include valves for which repair has been delayed.
(4) Any new valve that is not monitored within 30 days of being placed in service shall be included in the number of valves leaking and the total number of valves monitored for the monitoring period in which the valve is placed in service.
(5) If the process unit has been subdivided in accordance with § 60.482-7(c)(1)(ii), the sum of valves found leaking during a monitoring period includes all subgroups.
(6) The total number of valves monitored does not include a valve monitored to verify repair.
[54 FR 6678, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 27016, June 27, 1989; 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000; 72 FR 64882, Nov. 16, 2007; 89 FR 43068, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.486
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section.
(2) An owner or operator of more than one affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these facilities in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by each facility.
(b) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 60.482-2, 60.482-3, 60.482-7, 60.482-8, and 60.483-2, the following requirements apply:
(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.
(2) The identification on a valve may be removed after it has been monitored for 2 successive months as specified in § 60.482-7(c) and no leak has been detected during those 2 months.
(3) The identification on equipment except on a valve, may be removed after it has been repaired.
(c) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 60.482-2, 60.482-3, 60.482-7, 60.482-8, and 60.483-2, the following information shall be recorded in a log and shall be kept for 2 years in a readily accessible location:
(1) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the equipment identification number.
(2) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.
(3) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.
(4) “Above 10,000” if the maximum instrument reading measured by the methods specified in § 60.485(a) after each repair attempt is equal to or greater than 10,000 ppm.
(5) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.
(6) The signature of the owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a process shutdown.
(7) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 days.
(8) Dates of process unit shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.
(9) The date of successful repair of the leak.
(d) The following information pertaining to the design requirements for closed vent systems and control devices described in § 60.482-10 shall be recorded and kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) Detailed schematics, design specifications, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.
(2) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.
(3) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in § 60.482-10(e), to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.
(4) Periods when the closed vent systems and control devices required in §§ 60.482-2, 60.482-3, 60.482-4, and 60.482-5 are not operated as designed, including periods when a flare pilot light does not have a flame.
(5) Dates of startups and shutdowns of the closed vent systems and control devices required in §§ 60.482-2, 60.482-3, 60.482-4, and 60.482-5.
(e) The following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in §§ 60.482-1 to 60.482-10 shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) A list of identification numbers for equipment subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(2)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment that are designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of §§ 60.482-2(e), 60.482-3(i) and 60.482-7(f).
(ii) The designation of equipment as subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2(e), § 60.482-3(i), or § 60.482-7(f) shall be signed by the owner or operator. Alternatively, the owner or operator may establish a mechanism with their permitting authority that satisfies this requirement.
(3) A list of equipment identification numbers for pressure relief devices required to comply with § 60.482-4.
(4)(i) The dates of each compliance test as required in §§ 60.482-2(e), 60.482-3(i), 60.482-4, and 60.482-7(f).
(ii) The background level measured during each compliance test.
(iii) The maximum instrument reading measured at the equipment during each compliance test.
(5) A list of identification numbers for equipment in vacuum service.
(6) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator designates as operating in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr in accordance with § 60.482-1(e), a description of the conditions under which the equipment is in VOC service, and rationale supporting the designation that it is in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr.
(f) The following information pertaining to all valves subject to the requirements of § 60.482-7(g) and (h) and to all pumps subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2(g) shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) A list of identification numbers for valves and pumps that are designated as unsafe-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve or pump stating why the valve or pump is unsafe-to-monitor, and the plan for monitoring each valve or pump.
(2) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as difficult-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is difficult-to-monitor, and the schedule for monitoring each valve.
(g) The following information shall be recorded for valves complying with § 60.483-2:
(1) A schedule of monitoring.
(2) The percent of valves found leaking during each monitoring period.
(h) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) Design criterion required in §§ 60.482-2(d)(5) and 60.482-3(e)(2) and explanation of the design criterion; and
(2) Any changes to this criterion and the reasons for the changes.
(i) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location for use in determining exemptions as provided in § 60.480(d):
(1) An analysis demonstrating the design capacity of the affected facility,
(2) A statement listing the feed or raw materials and products from the
affected facilities and an analysis demonstrating whether these chemicals are heavy liquids or beverage alcohol, and
(3) An analysis demonstrating that equipment is not in VOC service.
(j) Information and data used to demonstrate that a piece of equipment is not in VOC service shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location.
(k) The provisions of § 60.7 (b) and (d) do not apply to affected facilities subject to this subpart.
(l) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78278, Dec. 14, 2000; 72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007; 89 FR 43068, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.487
Reporting requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit semiannual reports to the Administrator beginning six months after the initial startup date. Beginning on July 15, 2025, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for 1 year, whichever date is later, submit all subsequent reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.
(b) The initial semiannual report to the Administrator shall include the following information:
(1) Process unit identification.
(2) Number of valves subject to the requirements of § 60.482-7, excluding those valves designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-7(f).
(3) Number of pumps subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2, excluding those pumps designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-2(e) and those pumps complying with § 60.482-2(f).
(4) Number of compressors subject to the requirements of § 60.482-3, excluding those compressors designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-3(i) and those compressors complying with § 60.482-3(h).
(c) All semiannual reports to the Administrator shall include the following information, summarized from the information in § 60.486:
(1) Process unit identification.
(2) For each month during the semiannual reporting period,
(i) Number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-7(b) or § 60.483-2,
(ii) Number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-7(d)(1),
(iii) Number of pumps for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-2(b), (d)(4)(ii)(A) or (B), or (d)(5)(iii),
(iv) Number of pumps for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-2(c)(1) and (d)(6),
(v) Number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-3(f),
(vi) Number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-3(g)(1), and
(vii) The facts that explain each delay of repair and, where appropriate, why a process unit shutdown was technically infeasible.
(3) Dates of process unit shutdowns which occurred within the semiannual reporting period.
(4) Revisions to items reported according to paragraph (b) if changes have occurred since the initial report or subsequent revisions to the initial report.
(d) An owner or operator electing to comply with the provisions of § 60.483-1
or § 60.483-2 shall notify the Administrator of the alternative standard selected 90 days before implementing either of the provisions.
(e) An owner or operator shall report the results of all performance tests in accordance with § 60.8 of the General Provisions. The provisions of § 60.8(d) do not apply to affected facilities subject to the provisions of this subpart except that an owner or operator must notify the Administrator of the schedule for the initial performance tests at least 30 days before the initial performance tests.
(f) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such State. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State. The EPA will not approve a waiver of electronic reporting to the EPA in delegating enforcement authority. Thus, electronic reporting to the EPA cannot be waived, and as such, the provisions of this paragraph cannot be used to relieve owners or operators of affected facilities of the requirement to submit the electronic reports required in this section to the EPA.
(g) If an owner or operator is required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (g), the owner or operator must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information the owner or operator claims as CBI. Although the EPA does not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if an owner or operator wishes to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, the owner or operator must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information claimed to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. The owner or operator must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (g).
(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
, and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. Owners and operators who do not have their own file sharing service and who require assistance with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments should email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(2) If an owner or operator cannot transmit the file electronically, the owner or operator may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. ERT files should be sent to the attention of the Group Leader,
Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should be sent to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(h) Owners and operators required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, owner and operator must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the report was submitted.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(i) Owners and operators required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX may assert a claim of
force majeure
for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of
force majeure,
owners and operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator may submit a claim if a
force majeure
event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a
force majeure
event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents the owner or operator from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the
force majeure
event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the
force majeure
event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of
the notification, the date the report was submitted.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of
force majeure
and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the
force majeure
event occurs.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 22608, May 30, 1984; 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000; 72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007; 89 FR 43068, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.488
Reconstruction.
For the purposes of this subpart:
(a) The cost of the following frequently replaced components of the facility shall not be considered in calculating either the “fixed capital cost of the new components” or the “fixed capital costs that would be required to construct a comparable new facility” under § 60.15: pump seals, nuts and bolts, rupture disks, and packings.
(b) Under § 60.15, the “fixed capital cost of new components” includes the fixed capital cost of all depreciable components (except components specified in § 60.488 (a)) which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement which are commenced within any 2-year period following the applicability date for the appropriate subpart. (See the “Applicability and designation of affected facility” section of the appropriate subpart.) For purposes of this paragraph, “commenced” means that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of component replacement or that an owner or operator has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of component replacement.
[49 FR 22608, May 30, 1984]
§ 60.489
List of chemicals produced by affected facilities.
The following chemicals are produced, as intermediates or final products, by process units covered under this subpart. The applicability date for process units producing one or more of these chemicals is January 5, 1981.
CAS No.
a
Chemical
105-57-7
Acetal.
75-07-0
Acetaldehyde.
107-89-1
Acetaldol.
60-35-5
Acetamide.
103-84-4
Acetanilide.
64-19-7
Acetic acid.
108-24-7
Acetic anhydride.
67-64-1
Acetone.
75-86-5
Acetone cyanohydrin.
75-05-8
Acetonitrile.
98-86-2
Acetophenone.
75-36-5
Acetyl chloride.
74-86-2
Acetylene.
107-02-8
Acrolein.
79-06-1
Acrylamide.
79-10-7
Acrylic acid.
107-13-1
Acrylonitrile.
124-04-9
Adipic acid.
111-69-3
Adiponitrile.
(
b
)
Alkyl naphthalenes.
107-18-6
Allyl alcohol.
107-05-1
Allyl chloride.
1321-11-5
Aminobenzoic acid.
111-41-1
Aminoethylethanolamine.
123-30-8
p-Aminophenol.
628-63-7, 123-92-2
Amyl acetates.
71-41-0
c
Amyl alcohols.
110-58-7
Amyl amine.
543-59-9
Amyl chloride.
110-66-7
c
Amyl mercaptans.
1322-06-1
Amyl phenol.
62-53-3
Aniline.
142-04-1
Aniline hydrochloride.
29191-52-4
Anisidine.
100-66-3
Anisole.
118-92-3
Anthranilic acid.
84-65-1
Anthraquinone.
100-52-7
Benzaldehyde.
55-21-0
Benzamide.
71-43-2
Benzene.
98-48-6
Benzenedisulfonic acid.
98-11-3
Benzenesulfonic acid.
134-81-6
Benzil.
76-93-7
Benzilic acid.
65-85-0
Benzoic acid.
119-53-9
Benzoin.
100-47-0
Benzonitrile.
119-61-9
Benzophenone.
98-07-7
Benzotrichloride.
98-88-4
Benzoyl chloride.
100-51-6
Benzyl alcohol.
100-46-9
Benzylamine.
120-51-4
Benzyl benzoate.
100-44-7
Benzyl chloride.
98-87-3
Benzyl dichloride.
92-52-4
Biphenyl.
80-05-7
Bisphenol A.
10-86-1
Bromobenzene.
27497-51-4
Bromonaphthalene.
106-99-0
Butadiene.
106-98-9
1-butene.
123-86-4
n-butyl acetate.
141-32-2
n-butyl acrylate.
71-36-3
n-butyl alcohol.
78-92-2
s-butyl alcohol.
75-65-0
t-butyl alcohol.
109-73-9
n-butylamine.
13952-84-6
s-butylamine.
75-64-9
t-butylamine.
98-73-7
p-tert-butyl benzoic acid.
107-88-0
1,3-butylene glycol.
123-72-8
n-butyraldehyde.
107-92-6
Butyric acid.
106-31-0
Butyric anhydride.
109-74-0
Butyronitrile.
105-60-2
Caprolactam.
75-1-50
Carbon disulfide.
558-13-4
Carbon tetrabromide.
56-23-5
Carbon tetrachloride.
9004-35-7
Cellulose acetate.
79-11-8
Chloroacetic acid.
108-42-9
m-chloroaniline.
95-51-2
o-chloroaniline.
106-47-8
p-chloroaniline.
35913-09-8
Chlorobenzaldehyde.
108-90-7
Chlorobenzene.
118-91-2, 535-80-8, 74-11-3
c
Chlorobenzoic acid.
2136-81-4, 2136-89-2, 5216-25-1
c
Chlorobenzotrichloride.
1321-03-5
Chlorobenzoyl chloride.
25497-29-4
Chlorodifluoromethane.
75-45-6
Chlorodifluoroethane.
67-66-3
Chloroform.
25586-43-0
Chloronaphthalene.
88-73-3
o-chloronitrobenzene.
100-00-5
p-chloronitrobenzene.
25167-80-0
Chlorophenols.
126-99-8
Chloroprene.
7790-94-5
Chlorosulfonic acid.
108-41-8
m-chlorotoluene.
95-49-8
o-chlorotoluene.
106-43-4
p-chlorotoluene.
75-72-9
Chlorotrifluoromethane.
108-39-4
m-cresol.
95-48-7
o-cresol.
106-44-5
p-cresol.
1319-77-3
Mixed cresols.
1319-77-3
Cresylic acid.
4170-30-0
Crotonaldehyde.
3724-65-0
Crotonic acid.
98-82-8
Cumene.
80-15-9
Cumene hydroperoxide.
372-09-8
Cyanoacetic acid.
506-77-4
Cyanogen chloride.
108-80-5
Cyanuric acid.
108-77-0
Cyanuric chloride.
110-82-7
Cyclohexane.
108-93-0
Cyclohexanol.
108-94-1
Cyclohexanone.
110-83-8
Cyclohexene.
108-91-8
Cyclohexylamine.
111-78-4
Cyclooctadiene.
112-30-1
Decanol.
123-42-2
Diacetone alcohol.
27576-04-1
Diaminobenzoic acid.
95-76-1, 95-82-9, 554-00-7, 608-27-5, 608-31-1, 626-43-7, 27134-27-6, 57311-92-9
c
Dichloroaniline.
541-73-1
m-dichlorobenzene.
95-50-1
o-dichlorobenzene.
106-46-7
p-dichlorobenzene.
75-71-8
Dichlorodifluoromethane.
111-44-4
Dichloroethyl ether.
107-06-2
1,2-dichloroethane (EDC).
96-23-1
Dichlorohydrin.
26952-23-8
Dichloropropene.
101-83-7
Dicyclohexylamine.
109-89-7
Diethylamine.
111-46-6
Diethylene glycol.
112-36-7
Diethylene glycol diethyl ether.
111-96-6
Diethylene glycol dimethyl ether.
112-34-5
Diethylene glycol monobutyl ether.
124-17-4
Diethylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate.
111-90-0
Diethylene glycol monoethyl ether.
112-15-2
Diethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate.
111-77-3
Diethylene glycol monomethyl ether.
64-67-5
Diethyl sulfate.
75-37-6
Difluoroethane.
25167-70-8
Diisobutylene.
26761-40-0
Diisodecyl phthalate.
27554-26-3
Diisooctyl phthalate.
674-82-8
Diketene.
124-40-3
Dimethylamine.
121-69-7
N,N-dimethylaniline.
115-10-6
N,N-dimethyl ether.
68-12-2
N,N-dimethylformamide.
57-14-7
Dimethylhydrazine.
77-78-1
Dimethyl sulfate.
75-18-3
Dimethyl sulfide.
67-68-5
Dimethyl sulfoxide.
120-61-6
Dimethyl terephthalate.
99-34-3
3,5-dinitrobenzoic acid.
51-28-5
Dinitrophenol.
25321-14-6
Dinitrotoluene.
123-91-1
Dioxane.
646-06-0
Dioxilane.
122-39-4
Diphenylamine.
101-84-8
Diphenyl oxide.
102-08-9
Diphenyl thiourea.
25265-71-8
Dipropylene glycol.
25378-22-7
Dodecene.
28675-17-4
Dodecylaniline.
27193-86-8
Dodecylphenol.
106-89-8
Epichlorohydrin.
64-17-5
Ethanol.
141-43-5
c
Ethanolamines.
141-78-6
Ethyl acetate.
141-97-9
Ethyl acetoacetate.
140-88-5
Ethyl acrylate.
75-04-7
Ethylamine.
100-41-4
Ethylbenzene.
74-96-4
Ethyl bromide.
9004-57-3
Ethylcellulose.
75-00-3
Ethyl chloride.
105-39-5
Ethyl chloroacetate.
105-56-6
Ethylcyanoacetate.
74-85-1
Ethylene.
96-49-1
Ethylene carbonate.
107-07-3
Ethylene chlorohydrin.
107-15-3
Ethylenediamine.
106-93-4
Ethylene dibromide.
107-21-1
Ethylene glycol.
111-55-7
Ethylene glycol diacetate.
110-71-4
Ethylene glycol dimethyl ether.
111-76-2
Ethylene glycol monobutyl ether.
112-07-2
Ethylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate.
110-80-5
Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether.
111-15-9
Ethylene glycol monethyl ether acetate.
109-86-4
Ethylene glycol monomethyl ether.
110-49-6
Ethylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate.
122-99-6
Ethylene glycol monophenyl ether.
2807-30-9
Ethylene glycol monopropyl ether.
75-21-8
Ethylene oxide.
60-29-7
Ethyl ether
104-76-7
2-ethylhexanol.
122-51-0
Ethyl orthoformate.
95-92-1
Ethyl oxalate.
41892-71-1
Ethyl sodium oxalacetate.
50-00-0
Formaldehyde.
75-12-7
Formamide.
64-18-6
Formic acid.
110-17-8
Fumaric acid.
98-01-1
Furfural.
56-81-5
Glycerol.
26545-73-7
Glycerol dichlorohydrin.
25791-96-2
Glycerol triether.
56-40-6
Glycine.
107-22-2
Glyoxal.
118-74-1
Hexachlorobenzene.
67-72-1
Hexachloroethane.
36653-82-4
Hexadecyl alcohol.
124-09-4
Hexamethylenediamine.
629-11-8
Hexamethylene glycol.
100-97-0
Hexamethylenetetramine.
74-90-8
Hydrogen cyanide.
123-31-9
Hydroquinone.
99-96-7
p-hydroxybenzoic acid.
26760-64-5
Isoamylene.
78-83-1
Isobutanol.
110-19-0
Isobutyl acetate.
115-11-7
Isobutylene.
78-84-2
Isobutyraldehyde.
79-31-2
Isobutyric acid.
25339-17-7
Isodecanol.
26952-21-6
Isooctyl alcohol.
78-78-4
Isopentane.
78-59-1
Isophorone.
121-91-5
Isophthalic acid.
78-79-5
Isoprene.
67-63-0
Isopropanol.
108-21-4
Isopropyl acetate.
75-31-0
Isopropylamine.
75-29-6
Isopropyl chloride.
25168-06-3
Isopropylphenol.
463-51-4
Ketene.
(
b
)
Linear alkyl sulfonate.
123-01-3
Linear alkylbenzene (linear dodecylbenzene).
110-16-7
Maleic acid.
108-31-6
Maleic anhydride.
6915-15-7
Malic acid.
141-79-7
Mesityl oxide.
121-47-1
Metanilic acid.
79-41-4
Methacrylic acid.
563-47-3
Methallyl chloride.
67-56-1
Methanol.
79-20-9
Methyl acetate.
105-45-3
Methyl acetoacetate.
74-89-5
Methylamine.
100-61-8
n-methylaniline.
74-83-9
Methyl bromide.
37365-71-2
Methyl butynol.
74-87-3
Methyl chloride.
108-87-2
Methylcyclohexane.
1331-22-2
Methylcyclohexanone.
75-09-2
Methylene chloride.
101-77-9
Methylene dianiline.
101-68-8
Methylene diphenyl diisocyanate.
78-93-3
Methyl ethyl ketone.
107-31-3
Methyl formate.
108-11-2
Methyl isobutyl carbinol.
108-10-1
Methyl isobutyl ketone.
80-62-6
Methyl methacrylate.
77-75-8
Methylpentynol.
98-83-9
a-methylstyrene.
110-91-8
Morpholine.
85-47-2
a-naphthalene sulfonic acid.
120-18-3
b-naphthalene sulfonic acid.
90-15-3
a-naphthol.
135-19-3
b-naphthol.
75-98-9
Neopentanoic acid.
88-74-4
o-nitroaniline.
100-01-6
p-nitroaniline.
91-23-6
o-nitroanisole.
100-17-4
p-nitroanisole.
98-95-3
Nitrobenzene.
27178-83-2
c
Nitrobenzoic acid (o,m, and p).
79-24-3
Nitroethane.
75-52-5
Nitromethane.
88-75-5
2-Nitrophenol.
25322-01-4
Nitropropane.
1321-12-6
Nitrotoluene.
27215-95-8
Nonene.
25154-52-3
Nonylphenol.
27193-28-8
Octylphenol.
123-63-7
Paraldehyde.
115-77-5
Pentaerythritol.
109-66-0
n-pentane.
109-67-1
1-pentene
127-18-4
Perchloroethylene.
594-42-3
Perchloromethyl mercaptan.
94-70-2
o-phenetidine.
156-43-4
p-phenetidine.
108-95-2
Phenol.
98-67-9, 585-38-6, 609-46-1, 1333-39-7
c
Phenolsulfonic acids.
91-40-7
Phenyl anthranilic acid.
(
b
)
Phenylenediamine.
75-44-5
Phosgene.
85-44-9
Phthalic anhydride.
85-41-6
Phthalimide.
108-99-6
b-picoline.
110-85-0
Piperazine.
9003-29-6, 25036-29-7
c
Polybutenes.
25322-68-3
Polyethylene glycol.
25322-69-4
Polypropylene glycol.
123-38-6
Propionaldehyde.
79-09-4
Propionic acid.
71-23-8
n-propyl alcohol.
107-10-8
Propylamine.
540-54-5
Propyl chloride.
115-07-1
Propylene.
127-00-4
Propylene chlorohydrin.
78-87-5
Propylene dichloride.
57-55-6
Propylene glycol.
75-56-9
Propylene oxide.
110-86-1
Pyridine.
106-51-4
Quinone.
108-46-3
Resorcinol.
27138-57-4
Resorcylic acid.
69-72-7
Salicylic acid.
127-09-3
Sodium acetate.
532-32-1
Sodium benzoate.
9004-32-4
Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose.
3926-62-3
Sodium chloroacetate.
141-53-7
Sodium formate.
139-02-6
Sodium phenate.
110-44-1
Sorbic acid.
100-42-5
Styrene.
110-15-6
Succinic acid.
110-61-2
Succinonitrile.
121-57-3
Sulfanilic acid.
126-33-0
Sulfolane.
1401-55-4
Tannic acid.
100-21-0
Terephthalic acid.
79-34-5
c
Tetrachloroethanes.
117-08-8
Tetrachlorophthalic anhydride.
78-00-2
Tetraethyl lead.
119-64-2
Tetrahydronaphthalene.
85-43-8
Tetrahydrophthalic anhydride.
75-74-1
Tetramethyl lead.
110-60-1
Tetramethylenediamine.
110-18-9
Tetramethylethylenediamine.
108-88-3
Toluene.
95-80-7
Toluene-2,4-diamine.
584-84-9
Toluene-2,4-diisocyanate.
26471-62-5
Toluene diisocyanates (mixture).
1333-07-9
Toluenesulfonamide.
104-15-4
c
Toluenesulfonic acids.
98-59-9
Toluenesulfonyl chloride.
26915-12-8
Toluidines.
87-61-6, 108-70-3, 120-82-1
c
Trichlorobenzenes.
71-55-6
1,1,1-trichloroethane.
79-00-5
1,1,2-trichloroethane.
79-01-6
Trichloroethylene.
75-69-4
Trichlorofluoromethane.
96-18-4
1,2,3-trichloropropane.
76-13-1
1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoroethane.
121-44-8
Triethylamine.
112-27-6
Triethylene glycol.
112-49-2
Triethylene glycol dimethyl ether.
7756-94-7
Triisobutylene.
75-50-3
Trimethylamine.
57-13-6
Urea.
108-05-4
Vinyl acetate.
75-01-4
Vinyl chloride.
75-35-4
Vinylidene chloride.
25013-15-4
Vinyl toluene.
1330-20-7
Xylenes (mixed).
95-47-6
o-xylene.
106-42-3
p-xylene.
1300-71-6
Xylenol.
1300-73-8
Xylidine.
a
CAS numbers refer to the Chemical Abstracts Registry numbers assigned to specific chemicals, isomers, or mixtures of chemicals. Some isomers or mixtures that are covered by the standards do not have CAS numbers assigned to them. The standards apply to all of the chemicals listed, whether CAS numbers have been assigned or not.
b
No CAS number(s) have been assigned to this chemical, its isomers, or mixtures containing these chemicals.
c
CAS numbers for some of the isomers are listed; the standards apply to all of the isomers and mixtures, even if CAS numbers have not been assigned.
[48 FR 48335, Oct. 18, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart VVa—Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After November 7, 2006, and on or Before April 25, 2023

# Source:
72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.480a
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a)(1) The provisions of this subpart apply to affected facilities in the synthetic organic chemicals manufacturing industry.
(2) The group of all equipment (defined in § 60.481a) within a process unit is an affected facility.
(b) Any affected facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction, or modification after November 7, 2006, and on or before April 25, 2023, shall be subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(c) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement which is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.
(d)(1) If an owner or operator applies for one or more of the exemptions in this paragraph, then the owner or operator shall maintain records as required in § 60.486a(i).
(2) Any affected facility that has the design capacity to produce less than 1,000 Mg/yr (1,102 ton/yr) of a chemical listed in § 60.489 is exempt from §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a.
(3) If an affected facility produces heavy liquid chemicals only from heavy liquid feed or raw materials, then it is exempt from §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a.
(4) Any affected facility that produces beverage alcohol is exempt from §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a.
(5) Any affected facility that has no equipment in volatile organic compounds (VOC) service is exempt from §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a.
(e)
Alternative means of compliance
—(1)
Option to comply with part 65.
(i) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.482-1a through 60.487a for an affected facility. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, the requirements of §§ 60.485a(d), (e), and (f), and 60.486a(i) and (j) still apply. Other provisions applying to an owner or operator who chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1.
(ii)
Part 60, subpart A.
Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for that equipment. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) do not apply to owners or operators of
equipment subject to this subpart complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.
(2)
Part 63, subpart H.
(i) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.482-1a through 60.487a for an affected facility. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, the requirements of § 60.485a(d), (e), and (f), and § 60.486a(i) and (j) still apply.
(ii)
Part 60, subpart A.
Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for that equipment. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(2)(ii) do not apply to owners or operators of equipment subject to this subpart complying with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 63 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, must comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart A.
(f) Owners and operators of flares that are subject to the flare related requirements of this subpart and flare related requirements of any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63, may elect to comply with the requirements in § 60.619a, § 60.669a, or § 60.709a, in lieu of all flare related requirements in any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63.
[72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 31375, June 2, 2008; 89 FR 43070, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.481a
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (CAA) or in subpart A of part 60, and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.
Capital expenditure
means, in addition to the definition in § 60.2, an expenditure for a physical or operational change to an existing facility that:
(1) Exceeds P, the product of the facility's replacement cost, R, and an adjusted annual asset guideline repair allowance, A, as reflected by the following equation: P = R × A, where:
(i) The adjusted annual asset guideline repair allowance, A, is the product of the percent of the replacement cost, Y, and the applicable basic annual asset guideline repair allowance, B, divided by 100 as reflected by the following equation:

# Equation 1 to Capital Expenditure Paragraph (1)(i)
A = Y × (B ÷ 100);
(ii) The percent Y is determined from the following equation: Y = 1.0 − 0.575 log X, where X is:
(A) 2006 minus the year of construction if the physical or operational change to the existing facility was on or after November 16, 2007, or
(B) 1982 minus the year of construction if the physical or operational change to the existing facility was prior to November 16, 2007; and
(iii) The applicable basic annual asset guideline repair allowance, B, is selected from the following table consistent with the applicable subpart:
Table 1 to Capital Expenditure Paragraph (
1
)(
iii
)—Determining Applicable Value for B
Subpart applicable to facility
Value of B to be
used in equation
(A) VVa
12.5
(B) GGGa
7.0
Closed-loop system
means an enclosed system that returns process fluid to the process.
Closed-purge system
means a system or combination of systems and portable containers to capture purged liquids. Containers for purged liquids must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.
Closed vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that is composed of hard-piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from a piece or pieces of equipment to a control device or back to a process.
Connector
means flanged, screwed, or other joined fittings used to connect
two pipe lines or a pipe line and a piece of process equipment or that close an opening in a pipe that could be connected to another pipe. Joined fittings welded completely around the circumference of the interface are not considered connectors for the purpose of this regulation.
Control device
means an enclosed combustion device, vapor recovery system, or flare.
Distance piece
means an open or enclosed casing through which the piston rod travels, separating the compressor cylinder from the crankcase.
Double block and bleed system
means two block valves connected in series with a bleed valve or line that can vent the line between the two block valves.
Duct work
means a conveyance system such as those commonly used for heating and ventilation systems. It is often made of sheet metal and often has sections connected by screws or crimping. Hard-piping is not ductwork.
Equipment
means each pump, compressor, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, and flange or other connector in VOC service and any devices or systems required by this subpart.
First attempt at repair
means to take action for the purpose of stopping or reducing leakage of organic material to the atmosphere using best practices.
Fuel gas
means gases that are combusted to derive useful work or heat.
Fuel gas system
means the offsite and onsite piping and flow and pressure control system that gathers gaseous stream(s) generated by onsite operations, may blend them with other sources of gas, and transports the gaseous stream for use as fuel gas in combustion devices or in-process combustion equipment, such as furnaces and gas turbines, either singly or in combination.
Hard-piping
means pipe or tubing that is manufactured and properly installed using good engineering judgment and standards such as ASME B31.3, Process Piping (available from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, P.O. Box 2300, Fairfield, NJ 07007-2300).
In gas/vapor service
means that the piece of equipment contains process fluid that is in the gaseous state at operating conditions.
In heavy liquid service
means that the piece of equipment is not in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.
In light liquid service
means that the piece of equipment contains a liquid that meets the conditions specified in § 60.485a(e).
In-situ sampling systems
means nonextractive samplers or in-line samplers.
In vacuum service
means that equipment is operating at an internal pressure which is at least 5 kilopascals (kPa) (0.7 psia) below ambient pressure.
In VOC service
means that the piece of equipment contains or contacts a process fluid that is at least 10 percent VOC by weight. (The provisions of § 60.485a(d) specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in VOC service.)
Initial calibration value
means the concentration measured during the initial calibration at the beginning of each day required in § 60.485a(b)(1), or the most recent calibration if the instrument is recalibrated during the day (i.e., the calibration is adjusted) after a calibration drift assessment.
Liquids dripping
means any visible leakage from the seal including spraying, misting, clouding, and ice formation.
Open-ended valve or line
means any valve, except safety relief valves, having one side of the valve seat in contact with process fluid and one side open to the atmosphere, either directly or through open piping.
Pressure release means
the emission of materials resulting from system pressure being greater than set pressure of the pressure relief device.
Process improvement
means routine changes made for safety and occupational health requirements, for energy savings, for better utility, for ease of maintenance and operation, for correction of design deficiencies, for bottleneck removal, for changing product requirements, or for environmental control.
Process unit
means components assembled to produce, as intermediate or final products, one or more of the chemicals listed in § 60.489a. A process
unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient feed or raw materials and sufficient storage facilities for the product.
Process unit shutdown
means a work practice or operational procedure that stops production from a process unit or part of a process unit during which it is technically feasible to clear process material from a process unit or part of a process unit consistent with safety constraints and during which repairs can be accomplished. The following are not considered process unit shutdowns:
(1) An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that stops production from a process unit or part of a process unit for less than 24 hours.
(2) An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that would stop production from a process unit or part of a process unit for a shorter period of time than would be required to clear the process unit or part of the process unit of materials and start up the unit, and would result in greater emissions than delay of repair of leaking components until the next scheduled process unit shutdown.
(3) The use of spare equipment and technically feasible bypassing of equipment without stopping production.
Quarter
means a 3-month period; the first quarter concludes on the last day of the last full month during the 180 days following initial startup.
Repaired
means that equipment is adjusted, or otherwise altered, in order to eliminate a leak as defined in the applicable sections of this subpart and, except for leaks identified in accordance with §§ 60.482-2a(b)(2)(ii) and (d)(6)(ii) and (d)(6)(iii), 60.482-3a(f), and 60.482-10a(f)(1)(ii), is re-monitored as specified in § 60.485a(b) to verify that emissions from the equipment are below the applicable leak definition.
Replacement cost
means the capital needed to purchase all the depreciable components in a facility.
Sampling connection system
means an assembly of equipment within a process unit used during periods of representative operation to take samples of the process fluid. Equipment used to take nonroutine grab samples is not considered a sampling connection system.
Sensor
means a device that measures a physical quantity or the change in a physical quantity such as temperature, pressure, flow rate, pH, or liquid level.
Storage vessel
means a tank or other vessel that is used to store organic liquids that are used in the process as raw material feedstocks, produced as intermediates or final products, or generated as wastes. Storage vessel does not include vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles, such as trucks, railcars, barges or ships.
Synthetic organic chemicals manufacturing industry
means the industry that produces, as intermediates or final products, one or more of the chemicals listed in § 60.489.
Transfer rack
means the collection of loading arms and loading hoses, at a single loading rack, that are used to fill tank trucks and/or railcars with organic liquids.
Volatile organic compounds
or VOC means, for the purposes of this subpart, any reactive organic compounds as defined in § 60.2 Definitions.
[72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 43070, May 16, 2024; 89 FR 55522, July 5, 2024]
§ 60.482-1a
Standards: General.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a or § 60.480a(e) for all equipment within 180 days of initial startup.
(b) Compliance with §§ 60.482-1a to 60.482-10a will be determined by review of records and reports, review of performance test results, and inspection using the methods and procedures specified in § 60.485a.
(c)(1) An owner or operator may request a determination of equivalence of a means of emission limitation to the requirements of §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-5a, 60.482-6a, 60.482-7a, 60.482-8a, and 60.482-10a as provided in § 60.484a.
(2) If the Administrator makes a determination that a means of emission limitation is at least equivalent to the requirements of § 60.482-2a, § 60.482-3a, § 60.482-5a, § 60.482-6a, § 60.482-7a, § 60.482-8a, or § 60.482-10a, an owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of that determination.
(d) Equipment that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2a through 60.482-10a if it is identified as required in § 60.486a(e)(5).
(e) Equipment that an owner or operator designates as being in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr is excluded from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2a through 60.482-10a if it is identified as required in § 60.486a(e)(6) and it meets any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The equipment is in VOC service only during startup and shutdown, excluding startup and shutdown between batches of the same campaign for a batch process.
(2) The equipment is in VOC service only during process malfunctions or other emergencies.
(3) The equipment is backup equipment that is in VOC service only when the primary equipment is out of service.
(f)(1) If a dedicated batch process unit operates less than 365 days during a year, an owner or operator may monitor to detect leaks from pumps, valves, and open-ended valves or lines at the frequency specified in the following table instead of monitoring as specified in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-7a, and 60.483.2a:
Operating time (percent of hours during year)
Equivalent monitoring frequency time in use
Monthly
Quarterly
Semiannually
0 to
25
Quarterly
Annually
Annually.
25 to
50
Quarterly
Semiannually
Annually.
50 to
75
Bimonthly
Three quarters
Semiannually.
75 to 100
Monthly
Quarterly
Semiannually.
(2) Pumps and valves that are shared among two or more batch process units that are subject to this subpart may be monitored at the frequencies specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, provided the operating time of all such process units is considered.
(3) The monitoring frequencies specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are not requirements for monitoring at specific intervals and can be adjusted to accommodate process operations. An owner or operator may monitor at any time during the specified monitoring period (e.g., month, quarter, year), provided the monitoring is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the last monitoring campaign. Reasonable intervals are defined in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) When monitoring is conducted quarterly, monitoring events must be separated by at least 30 calendar days.
(ii) When monitoring is conducted semiannually (
i.e.
, once every 2 quarters), monitoring events must be separated by at least 60 calendar days.
(iii) When monitoring is conducted in 3 quarters per year, monitoring events must be separated by at least 90 calendar days.
(iv) When monitoring is conducted annually, monitoring events must be separated by at least 120 calendar days.
[72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 43070, May 16, 2024; 89 FR 55522, July 5, 2024; 89 FR 74136, Sept. 12, 2024]
§ 60.482-2a
Standards: Pumps in light liquid service.
(a)(1) Each pump in light liquid service shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.485a(b), except as provided in § 60.482-1a(c) and (f) and paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section. A pump that begins operation in light liquid service after the initial startup date for the process unit must be monitored for the first time within 30 days after the end of its startup period, except for a pump that replaces a leaking pump and except as provided in § 60.482-1a(c) and paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(2) Each pump in light liquid service shall be checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, except as provided in § 60.482-1a(f).
(b)(1) The instrument reading that defines a leak is specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) 5,000 parts per million (ppm) or greater for pumps handling polymerizing monomers;
(ii) 2,000 ppm or greater for all other pumps.
(2) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. This requirement does not apply to a pump that was monitored after a previous weekly inspection and the instrument reading was less than the concentration specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, whichever is applicable.
(i) Monitor the pump within 5 days as specified in § 60.485a(b). A leak is detected if the instrument reading measured during monitoring indicates a leak as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, whichever is applicable. The leak shall be repaired using the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) Designate the visual indications of liquids dripping as a leak, and repair the leak using either the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section or by eliminating the visual indications of liquids dripping.
(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9a.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected. First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the practices described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, where practicable.
(i) Tightening the packing gland nuts;
(ii) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.
(d) Each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, provided the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section are met.
(1) Each dual mechanical seal system is:
(i) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump stuffing box pressure; or
(ii) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10a; or
(iii) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero VOC emissions to the atmosphere.
(2) The barrier fluid system is in heavy liquid service or is not in VOC service.
(3) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(4)(i) Each pump is checked by visual inspection, each calendar week, for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seals.
(ii) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section prior to the next required inspection.
(A) Monitor the pump within 5 days as specified in § 60.485a(b) to determine if there is a leak of VOC in the barrier fluid. If an instrument reading of 2,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(B) Designate the visual indications of liquids dripping as a leak.
(5)(i) Each sensor as described in paragraph (d)(3) is checked daily or is equipped with an audible alarm.
(ii) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(iii) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, based on the criterion established in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected.
(6)(i) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, it shall be repaired as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) A leak detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section shall be repaired within 15 days of detection by
eliminating the conditions that activated the sensor.
(iii) A designated leak pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(B) of this section shall be repaired within 15 days of detection by eliminating visual indications of liquids dripping.
(e) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 60.486a(e)(1) and (2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section if the pump:
(1) Has no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump housing;
(2) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background as measured by the methods specified in § 60.485a(c); and
(3) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(f) If any pump is equipped with a closed vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals to a process or to a fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10a, it is exempt from paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(g) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 60.486a(f)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor pump is exempt from the monitoring and inspection requirements of paragraphs (a) and (d)(4) through (6) of this section if:
(1) The owner or operator of the pump demonstrates that the pump is unsafe-to-monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The owner or operator of the pump has a written plan that requires monitoring of the pump as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and repair of the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section if a leak is detected.
(h) Any pump that is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site is exempt from the weekly visual inspection requirement of paragraphs (a)(2) and (d)(4) of this section, and the daily requirements of paragraph (d)(5) of this section, provided that each pump is visually inspected as often as practicable and at least monthly.
§ 60.482-3a
Standards: Compressors.
(a) Each compressor shall be equipped with a seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and that prevents leakage of VOC to the atmosphere, except as provided in § 60.482-1a(c) and paragraphs (h), (i), and (j) of this section.
(b) Each compressor seal system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall be:
(1) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is greater than the compressor stuffing box pressure; or
(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid system degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10a; or
(3) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero VOC emissions to the atmosphere.
(c) The barrier fluid system shall be in heavy liquid service or shall not be in VOC service.
(d) Each barrier fluid system as described in paragraph (a) shall be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, barrier fluid system, or both.
(e)(1) Each sensor as required in paragraph (d) of this section shall be checked daily or shall be equipped with an audible alarm.
(2) The owner or operator shall determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(f) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier system, or both based on the criterion determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a leak is detected.
(g)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days
after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9a.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(h) A compressor is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, if it is equipped with a closed vent system to capture and transport leakage from the compressor drive shaft back to a process or fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10a, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) Any compressor that is designated, as described in § 60.486a(e)(1) and (2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section if the compressor:
(1) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the methods specified in § 60.485a(c); and
(2) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(j) Any existing reciprocating compressor in a process unit which becomes an affected facility under provisions of § 60.14 or § 60.15 is exempt from paragraphs (a) through (e) and (h) of this section, provided the owner or operator demonstrates that recasting the distance piece or replacing the compressor are the only options available to bring the compressor into compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (e) and (h) of this section.
§ 60.482-4a
Standards: Pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service.
(a) Except during pressure releases, each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service shall be operated with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as determined by the methods specified in § 60.485a(c).
(b)(1) After each pressure release, the pressure relief device shall be returned to a condition of no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, except as provided in § 60.482-9a.
(2) No later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, the pressure relief device shall be monitored to confirm the conditions of no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, by the methods specified in § 60.485a(c).
(c) Any pressure relief device that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or equipped with a closed vent system capable of capturing and transporting leakage through the pressure relief device to a control device as described in § 60.482-10a is exempted from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)(1) Any pressure relief device that is equipped with a rupture disk upstream of the pressure relief device is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, provided the owner or operator complies with the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) After each pressure release, a new rupture disk shall be installed upstream of the pressure relief device as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after each pressure release, except as provided in § 60.482-9a.
§ 60.482-5a
Standards: Sampling connection systems.
(a) Each sampling connection system shall be equipped with a closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system, except as provided in § 60.482-1a(c) and paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Gases displaced during filling of the sample container are not required to be collected or captured.
(2) Containers that are part of a closed-purge system must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.
(3) Gases remaining in the tubing or piping between the closed-purge system valve(s) and sample container valve(s) after the valves are closed and the sample container is disconnected are not required to be collected or captured.
(4) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system shall be designed and operated to meet requirements in either paragraph (b)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.
(i) Return the purged process fluid directly to the process line.
(ii) Collect and recycle the purged process fluid to a process.
(iii) Capture and transport all the purged process fluid to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10a.
(iv) Collect, store, and transport the purged process fluid to any of the following systems or facilities:
(A) A waste management unit as defined in 40 CFR 63.111, if the waste management unit is subject to and operated in compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to Group 1 wastewater streams;
(B) A treatment, storage, or disposal facility subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266;
(C) A facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a state to manage municipal or industrial solid waste, if the process fluids are not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261;
(D) A waste management unit subject to and operated in compliance with the treatment requirements of 40 CFR 61.348(a), provided all waste management units that collect, store, or transport the purged process fluid to the treatment unit are subject to and operated in compliance with the management requirements of 40 CFR 61.343 through 40 CFR 61.347; or
(E) A device used to burn off-specification used oil for energy recovery in accordance with 40 CFR part 279, subpart G, provided the purged process fluid is not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261.
(c) In-situ sampling systems and sampling systems without purges are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 60.482-6a
Standards: Open-ended valves or lines.
(a)(1) Each open-ended valve or line shall be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve, except as provided in § 60.482-1a(c) and paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(2) The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall seal the open end at all times except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line.
(b) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve shall be operated in a manner such that the valve on the process fluid end is closed before the second valve is closed.
(c) When a double block-and-bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section at all other times.
(d) Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system which are designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(e) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which would autocatalytically polymerize or would present an explosion, serious overpressure, or other safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double block and bleed system as specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
§ 60.482-7a
Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.
(a)(1) Each valve shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.485a(b) and shall comply with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, § 60.482-1a(c) and (f), and §§ 60.483-1a and 60.483-2a.
(2) A valve that begins operation in gas/vapor service or light liquid service after the initial startup date for the process unit must be monitored according to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii), except for a valve that replaces a leaking
valve and except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, § 60.482-1a(c), and §§ 60.483-1a and 60.483-2a.
(i) Monitor the valve as in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The valve must be monitored for the first time within 30 days after the end of its startup period to ensure proper installation.
(ii) If the existing valves in the process unit are monitored in accordance with § 60.483-1a or § 60.483-2a, count the new valve as leaking when calculating the percentage of valves leaking as described in § 60.483-2a(b)(5). If less than 2.0 percent of the valves are leaking for that process unit, the valve must be monitored for the first time during the next scheduled monitoring event for existing valves in the process unit or within 90 days, whichever comes first.
(b) If an instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(c)(1)(i) Any valve for which a leak is not detected for 2 successive months may be monitored the first month of every quarter, beginning with the next quarter, until a leak is detected.
(ii) As an alternative to monitoring all of the valves in the first month of a quarter, an owner or operator may elect to subdivide the process unit into two or three subgroups of valves and monitor each subgroup in a different month during the quarter, provided each subgroup is monitored every 3 months. The owner or operator must keep records of the valves assigned to each subgroup.
(2) If a leak is detected, the valve shall be monitored monthly until a leak is not detected for 2 successive months.
(d)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9a.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(e) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following best practices where practicable:
(1) Tightening of bonnet bolts;
(2) Replacement of bonnet bolts;
(3) Tightening of packing gland nuts;
(4) Injection of lubricant into lubricated packing.
(f) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486a(e)(2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if the valve:
(1) Has no external actuating mechanism in contact with the process fluid,
(2) Is operated with emissions less than 500 ppm above background as determined by the method specified in § 60.485a(c), and
(3) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(g) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486a(f)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) The owner or operator of the valve demonstrates that the valve is unsafe to monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a) of this section, and
(2) The owner or operator of the valve adheres to a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times.
(h) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486a(f)(2), as a difficult-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) The owner or operator of the valve demonstrates that the valve cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface.
(2) The process unit within which the valve is located either:
(i) Becomes an affected facility through § 60.14 or § 60.15 and was constructed on or before January 5, 1981; or
(ii) Has less than 3.0 percent of its total number of valves designated as difficult-to-monitor by the owner or operator.
(3) The owner or operator of the valve follows a written plan that requires
monitoring of the valve at least once per calendar year.
§ 60.482-8a
Standards: Pumps, valves, and connectors in heavy liquid service and pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service.
(a) If evidence of a potential leak is found by visual, audible, olfactory, or any other detection method at pumps, valves, and connectors in heavy liquid service and pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service, the owner or operator shall follow either one of the following procedures:
(1) The owner or operator shall monitor the equipment within 5 days by the method specified in § 60.485a(b) and shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(2) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual, audible, olfactory, or other indication of a potential leak within 5 calendar days of detection.
(b) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9a.
(2) The first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(d) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the best practices described under §§ 60.482-2a(c)(2) and 60.482-7a(e).
§ 60.482-9a
Standards: Delay of repair.
(a) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed if repair within 15 days is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur before the end of the next process unit shutdown. Monitoring to verify repair must occur within 15 days after startup of the process unit.
(b) Delay of repair of equipment will be allowed for equipment which is isolated from the process and which does not remain in VOC service.
(c) Delay of repair for valves and connectors will be allowed if:
(1) The owner or operator demonstrates that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and
(2) When repair procedures are effected, the purged material is collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device complying with § 60.482-10a.
(d) Delay of repair for pumps will be allowed if:
(1) Repair requires the use of a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system, and
(2) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.
(e) Delay of repair beyond a process unit shutdown will be allowed for a valve, if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the process unit shutdown, valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted. Delay of repair beyond the next process unit shutdown will not be allowed unless the next process unit shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first process unit shutdown.
(f) When delay of repair is allowed for a leaking pump, valve, or connector that remains in service, the pump, valve, or connector may be considered to be repaired and no longer subject to delay of repair requirements if two consecutive monthly monitoring instrument readings are below the leak definition.
§ 60.482-10a
Standards: Closed vent systems and control devices.
(a) Owners or operators of closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of this section.
(b) Vapor recovery systems (for example, condensers and absorbers) shall be designed and operated to recover the VOC emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv), whichever is less stringent.
(c) Enclosed combustion devices shall be designed and operated to reduce the VOC emissions vented to them with an
efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 ppmv, on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent or to provide a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds at a minimum temperature of 816 °C.
(d) Flares used to comply with this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 60.18.
(e) Owners or operators of control devices used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall monitor these control devices to ensure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their designs.
(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (i) through (k) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) If the vapor collection system or closed vent system is constructed of hard-piping, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 60.485a(b); and
(ii) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.
(2) If the vapor collection system or closed vent system is constructed of ductwork, the owner or operator shall:
(i) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 60.485a(b); and
(ii) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures in § 60.485a(b).
(g) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 ppmv above background or by visual inspections, shall be repaired as soon as practicable except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(1) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(2) Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(h) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be complete by the end of the next process unit shutdown.
(i) If a vapor collection system or closed vent system is operated under a vacuum, it is exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section.
(j) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section, as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section if they comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (f)(2) of this section; and
(2) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.
(k) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, as difficult to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(2) of this section if they comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and
(2) The process unit within which the closed vent system is located becomes an affected facility through §§ 60.14 or 60.15, or the owner or operator designates less than 3.0 percent of the total number of closed vent system equipment as difficult to inspect; and
(3) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years. A closed vent system is exempt from
inspection if it is operated under a vacuum.
(l) The owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.
(2) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as difficult to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is difficult to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.
(3) For each inspection during which a leak is detected, a record of the information specified in § 60.486a(c).
(4) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 60.485a(b) during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.
(5) For each visual inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.
(m) Closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions may be vented to them.
§ 60.483-1a
Alternative standards for valves—allowable percentage of valves leaking.
(a) An owner or operator may elect to comply with an allowable percentage of valves leaking of equal to or less than 2.0 percent.
(b) The following requirements shall be met if an owner or operator wishes to comply with an allowable percentage of valves leaking:
(1) An owner or operator must notify the Administrator that the owner or operator has elected to comply with the allowable percentage of valves leaking before implementing this alternative standard, as specified in § 60.487a(d).
(2) A performance test as specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be conducted initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(3) If a valve leak is detected, it shall be repaired in accordance with § 60.482-7a(d) and (e).
(c) Performance tests shall be conducted in the following manner:
(1) All valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service within the affected facility shall be monitored within 1 week by the methods specified in § 60.485a(b).
(2) If an instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(3) The leak percentage shall be determined by dividing the number of valves for which leaks are detected by the number of valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service within the affected facility.
(d) Owners and operators who elect to comply with this alternative standard shall not have an affected facility with a leak percentage greater than 2.0 percent, determined as described in § 60.485a(h).
§ 60.483-2a
Alternative standards for valves—skip period leak detection and repair.
(a)(1) An owner or operator may elect to comply with one of the alternative work practices specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) An owner or operator must notify the Administrator before implementing one of the alternative work practices, as specified in § 60.487(d)a.
(b)(1) An owner or operator shall comply initially with the requirements for valves in gas/vapor service and valves in light liquid service, as described in § 60.482-7a.
(2) After 2 consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percent of valves leaking equal to or less than 2.0, an owner or operator may begin to skip 1 of the quarterly leak detection periods for the valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service.
(3) After 5 consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percent of valves leaking equal to or less than 2.0, an owner or operator may begin to skip 3 of the quarterly leak detection periods for the valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service.
(4) If the percent of valves leaking is greater than 2.0, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements as described in § 60.482-7a but can again elect to use this section.
(5) The percent of valves leaking shall be determined as described in § 60.485a(h).
(6) An owner or operator must keep a record of the percent of valves found leaking during each leak detection period.
(7) A valve that begins operation in gas/vapor service or light liquid service after the initial startup date for a process unit following one of the alternative standards in this section must be monitored in accordance with § 60.482-7a(a)(2)(i) or (ii) before the provisions of this section can be applied to that valve.
§ 60.484a
Equivalence of means of emission limitation.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart may apply to the Administrator for determination of equivalence for any means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions of VOC achieved by the controls required in this subpart.
(b) Determination of equivalence to the equipment, design, and operational requirements of this subpart will be evaluated by the following guidelines:
(1) Each owner or operator applying for an equivalence determination shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data to demonstrate equivalence of means of emission limitation.
(2) The Administrator will compare test data for demonstrating equivalence of the means of emission limitation to test data for the equipment, design, and operational requirements.
(3) The Administrator may condition the approval of equivalence on requirements that may be necessary to assure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emission reduction as the equipment, design, and operational requirements.
(c) Determination of equivalence to the required work practices in this subpart will be evaluated by the following guidelines:
(1) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data to demonstrate equivalence of an equivalent means of emission limitation.
(2) For each affected facility for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the required work practice shall be demonstrated.
(3) For each affected facility, for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the equivalent means of emission limitation shall be demonstrated.
(4) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence shall commit in writing to work practice(s) that provide for emission reductions equal to or greater than the emission reductions achieved by the required work practice.
(5) The Administrator will compare the demonstrated emission reduction for the equivalent means of emission limitation to the demonstrated emission reduction for the required work practices and will consider the commitment in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(6) The Administrator may condition the approval of equivalence on requirements that may be necessary to assure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emission reduction as the required work practice.
(d) An owner or operator may offer a unique approach to demonstrate the equivalence of any equivalent means of emission limitation.
(e)(1) After a request for determination of equivalence is received, the Administrator will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
and provide the opportunity for public hearing if the Administrator judges that the request may be approved.
(2) After notice and opportunity for public hearing, the Administrator will determine the equivalence of a means of emission limitation and will publish the determination in the
Federal Register.
(3) Any equivalent means of emission limitations approved under this section shall constitute a required work practice, equipment, design, or operational
standard within the meaning of section 111(h)(1) of the CAA.
(f)(1) Manufacturers of equipment used to control equipment leaks of VOC may apply to the Administrator for determination of equivalence for any equivalent means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC achieved by the equipment, design, and operational requirements of this subpart.
(2) The Administrator will make an equivalence determination according to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
§ 60.485a
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the standards in §§ 60.482-1a through 60.482-10a, 60.483a, and 60.484a as follows:
(1) Method 21 shall be used to determine the presence of leaking sources. The instrument shall be calibrated before use each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part. The following calibration gases shall be used:
(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air); and
(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration no more than 2,000 ppm greater than the leak definition concentration of the equipment monitored. If the monitoring instrument's design allows for multiple calibration scales, then the lower scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is no higher than 2,000 ppm above the concentration specified as a leak, and the highest scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is approximately equal to 10,000 ppm. If only one scale on an instrument will be used during monitoring, the owner or operator need not calibrate the scales that will not be used during that day's monitoring.
(2) A calibration drift assessment shall be performed, at a minimum, at the end of each monitoring day. Check the instrument using the same calibration gas(es) that were used to calibrate the instrument before use. Follow the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, section 10.1, except do not adjust the meter readout to correspond to the calibration gas value. Record the instrument reading for each scale used as specified in § 60.486a(e)(8). Divide the arithmetic difference of the initial and post-test calibration response by the corresponding calibration gas value for each scale and multiply by 100 to express the calibration drift as a percentage.
(i) If a calibration drift assessment shows a negative drift of more than 10 percent, then all equipment with instrument readings between the appropriate leak definition and the leak definition multiplied by (100 minus the percent of negative drift/divided by 100) that was monitored since the last calibration must be re-monitored.
(ii) If any calibration drift assessment shows a positive drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then, at the owner/operator's discretion, all equipment with instrument readings above the appropriate leak definition and below the leak definition multiplied by (100 plus the percent of positive drift/divided by 100) monitored since the last calibration may be re-monitored.
(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the no-detectable-emission standards in §§ 60.482-2a(e), 60.482-3a(i), 60.482-4a, 60.482-7a(f), and 60.482-10a(e) as follows:
(1) The requirements of paragraph (b) shall apply.
(2) Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part shall be used to determine the background level. All potential leak interfaces shall be traversed as close to the interface as possible. The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level is compared with 500 ppm for determining compliance.
(d) The owner or operator shall test each piece of equipment unless he demonstrates that a process unit is not in VOC service, i.e., that the VOC content would never be reasonably expected to
exceed 10 percent by weight. For purposes of this demonstration, the following methods and procedures shall be used:
(1) Procedures that conform to the general methods in ASTM E260-73, 91, or 96, E168-67, 77, or 92, E169-63, 77, or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the percent VOC content in the process fluid that is contained in or contacts a piece of equipment.
(2) Organic compounds that are considered by the Administrator to have negligible photochemical reactivity may be excluded from the total quantity of organic compounds in determining the VOC content of the process fluid.
(3) Engineering judgment may be used to estimate the VOC content, if a piece of equipment had not been shown previously to be in service. If the Administrator disagrees with the judgment, paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section shall be used to resolve the disagreement.
(e) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that a piece of equipment is in light liquid service by showing that all the following conditions apply:
(1) The vapor pressure of one or more of the organic components is greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H
2
O at 68 °F). Standard reference texts or ASTM D2879-83, 96, or 97 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the vapor pressures.
(2) The total concentration of the pure organic components having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H
2
O at 68 °F) is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight.
(3) The fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.
(f) Samples used in conjunction with paragraphs (d), (e), and (g) of this section shall be representative of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts the equipment or the gas being combusted in the flare.
(g) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the standards of flares as follows:
(1) Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part shall be used to determine visible emissions.
(2) A thermocouple or any other equivalent device shall be used to monitor the presence of a pilot flame in the flare.
(3) The maximum permitted velocity for air assisted flares shall be computed using the following equation:
V
max
= K
1
+ K
2
H
T
Where:
V
max
= Maximum permitted velocity, m/sec (ft/sec).
H
T
= Net heating value of the gas being combusted, MJ/scm (Btu/scf).
K
1
= 8.706 m/sec (metric units) = 28.56 ft/sec (English units).
K
2
= 0.7084 m
4
/(MJ-sec) (metric units) = 0.087 ft
4
/(Btu-sec) (English units).
(4) The net heating value (HT) of the gas being combusted in a flare shall be computed using the following equation:
ER16NO07.038
Where:
K = Conversion constant, 1.740 × 10
−7
(g-mole)(MJ)/(ppm-scm-kcal) (metric units) = 4.674 × 10
−6
[(g-mole)(Btu)/(ppm-scf-kcal)] (English units).
C
i
= Concentration of sample component “i,” ppm
H
i
= net heat of combustion of sample component “i” at 25 °C and 760 mm Hg (77 °F and 14.7 psi), kcal/g-mole.
(5) Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part and ASTM D2504-67, 77, or 88 (Reapproved 1993) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the concentration of sample component “i.” ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) may be used in lieu of Method 18, under the conditions specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) If the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable.
(ii) ASTM D6420-18 may not be used for methane and ethane.
(iii) ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method.
(6) ASTM D2382-76 or 88 or D4809-95 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the net heat of combustion of component “i” if published values are not available or cannot be calculated.
(7) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A-7 of this part, as appropriate, shall be used to determine the actual
exit velocity of a flare. If needed, the unobstructed (free) cross-sectional area of the flare tip shall be used.
(h) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with § 60.483-1a or § 60.483-2a as follows:
(1) The percent of valves leaking shall be determined using the following equation:
%V
L
= (V
L
/ V
T
) * 100
Where:
%V
L
= Percent leaking valves.
V
L
= Number of valves found leaking.
V
T
= The sum of the total number of valves monitored.
(2) The total number of valves monitored shall include difficult-to-monitor and unsafe-to-monitor valves only during the monitoring period in which those valves are monitored.
(3) The number of valves leaking shall include valves for which repair has been delayed.
(4) Any new valve that is not monitored within 30 days of being placed in service shall be included in the number of valves leaking and the total number of valves monitored for the monitoring period in which the valve is placed in service.
(5) If the process unit has been subdivided in accordance with § 60.482-7a(c)(1)(ii), the sum of valves found leaking during a monitoring period includes all subgroups.
(6) The total number of valves monitored does not include a valve monitored to verify repair.
[72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 43070, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.486a
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section.
(2) An owner or operator of more than one affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these facilities in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by each facility.
(3) The owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for each monitoring event required by §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-7a, 60.482-8a, and 60.483-2a.
(i) Monitoring instrument identification.
(ii) Operator identification.
(iii) Equipment identification.
(iv) Date of monitoring.
(v) Instrument reading.
(b) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-7a, 60.482-8a, and 60.483-2a, the following requirements apply:
(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.
(2) The identification on a valve may be removed after it has been monitored for 2 successive months as specified in § 60.482-7a(c) and no leak has been detected during those 2 months.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) The identification on equipment, except on a valve or connector, may be removed after it has been repaired.
(c) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-7a, 60.482-8a, and 60.483-2a, the following information shall be recorded in a log and shall be kept for 2 years in a readily accessible location:
(1) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the equipment identification number, except when indications of liquids dripping from a pump are designated as a leak.
(2) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.
(3) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.
(4) Maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part at the time the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable, except when a pump is repaired by eliminating indications of liquids dripping.
(5) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.
(6) The signature of the owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a process shutdown.
(7) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 days.
(8) Dates of process unit shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.
(9) The date of successful repair of the leak.
(d) The following information pertaining to the design requirements for closed vent systems and control devices described in § 60.482-10a shall be recorded and kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) Detailed schematics, design specifications, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.
(2) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.
(3) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in § 60.482-10a(e), to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.
(4) Periods when the closed vent systems and control devices required in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-4a, and 60.482-5a are not operated as designed, including periods when a flare pilot light does not have a flame.
(5) Dates of startups and shutdowns of the closed vent systems and control devices required in §§ 60.482-2a, 60.482-3a, 60.482-4a, and 60.482-5a.
(e) The following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in §§ 60.482-1a to 60.482-10a shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) A list of identification numbers for equipment subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(2)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment that are designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of §§ 60.482-2a(e), 60.482-3a(i), and 60.482-7a(f).
(ii) The designation of equipment as subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2a(e), § 60.482-3a(i), or § 60.482-7a(f) shall be signed by the owner or operator. Alternatively, the owner or operator may establish a mechanism with their permitting authority that satisfies this requirement.
(3) A list of equipment identification numbers for pressure relief devices required to comply with § 60.482-4a.
(4)(i) The dates of each compliance test as required in §§ 60.482-2a(e), 60.482-3a(i), 60.482-4a, and 60.482-7a(f).
(ii) The background level measured during each compliance test.
(iii) The maximum instrument reading measured at the equipment during each compliance test.
(5) A list of identification numbers for equipment in vacuum service.
(6) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator designates as operating in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr in accordance with § 60.482-1a(e), a description of the conditions under which the equipment is in VOC service, and rationale supporting the designation that it is in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr.
(7) The date and results of the weekly visual inspection for indications of liquids dripping from pumps in light liquid service.
(8) Records of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(8)(i) through (vi) of this section for monitoring instrument calibrations conducted according to sections 8.1.2 and 10 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part and § 60.485a(b).
(i) Date of calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.
(ii) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.
(iii) Instrument scale(s) used.
(iv) A description of any corrective action taken if the meter readout could not be adjusted to correspond to the calibration gas value in accordance with section 10.1 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part.
(v) Results of each calibration drift assessment required by § 60.485a(b)(2) (i.e., instrument reading for calibration at end of monitoring day and the calculated percent difference from the initial calibration value).
(vi) If an owner or operator makes their own calibration gas, a description of the procedure used.
(9) [Reserved]
(10) Records of each release from a pressure relief device subject to § 60.482-4a.
(f) The following information pertaining to all valves subject to the requirements of § 60.482-7a(g) and (h), and all pumps subject to the requirements
of § 60.482-2a(g) shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) A list of identification numbers for valves, pumps, and connectors that are designated as unsafe-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve, pump, or connector stating why the valve, pump, or connector is unsafe-to-monitor, and the plan for monitoring each valve, pump, or connector.
(2) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as difficult-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is difficult-to-monitor, and the schedule for monitoring each valve.
(g) The following information shall be recorded for valves complying with § 60.483-2a:
(1) A schedule of monitoring.
(2) The percent of valves found leaking during each monitoring period.
(h) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) Design criterion required in §§ 60.482-2a(d)(5) and 60.482-3a(e)(2) and explanation of the design criterion; and
(2) Any changes to this criterion and the reasons for the changes.
(i) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location for use in determining exemptions as provided in § 60.480a(d):
(1) An analysis demonstrating the design capacity of the affected facility,
(2) A statement listing the feed or raw materials and products from the affected facilities and an analysis demonstrating whether these chemicals are heavy liquids or beverage alcohol, and
(3) An analysis demonstrating that equipment is not in VOC service.
(j) Information and data used to demonstrate that a piece of equipment is not in VOC service shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location.
(k) The provisions of § 60.7(b) and (d) do not apply to affected facilities subject to this subpart.
(l) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
[72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 43071, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.487a
Reporting requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit semiannual reports to the Administrator beginning 6 months after the initial startup date. Beginning on July 15, 2025, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for 1 year, whichever date is later, submit all subsequent reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.
(b) The initial semiannual report to the Administrator shall include the following information:
(1) Process unit identification.
(2) Number of valves subject to the requirements of § 60.482-7a, excluding those valves designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-7a(f).
(3) Number of pumps subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2a, excluding those pumps designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-2a(e) and those pumps complying with § 60.482-2a(f).
(4) Number of compressors subject to the requirements of § 60.482-3a, excluding those compressors designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-3a(i) and those compressors complying with § 60.482-3a(h).
(c) All semiannual reports to the Administrator shall include the following information, summarized from the information in § 60.486a:
(1) Process unit identification.
(2) For each month during the semiannual reporting period,
(i) Number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-7a(b) or § 60.483-2a,
(ii) Number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-7a(d)(1),
(iii) Number of pumps for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-2a(b), (d)(4)(ii)(A) or (B), or (d)(5)(iii),
(iv) Number of pumps for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-2a(c)(1) and (d)(6),
(v) Number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-3a(f),
(vi) Number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-3a(g)(1), and
(vii)-(x) [Reserved]
(xi) The facts that explain each delay of repair and, where appropriate, why a process unit shutdown was technically infeasible.
(3) Dates of process unit shutdowns which occurred within the semiannual reporting period.
(4) Revisions to items reported according to paragraph (b) of this section if changes have occurred since the initial report or subsequent revisions to the initial report.
(d) An owner or operator electing to comply with the provisions of §§ 60.483-1a or 60.483-2a shall notify the Administrator of the alternative standard selected 90 days before implementing either of the provisions.
(e) An owner or operator shall report the results of all performance tests in accordance with § 60.8 of the General Provisions. The provisions of § 60.8(d) do not apply to affected facilities subject to the provisions of this subpart except that an owner or operator must notify the Administrator of the schedule for the initial performance tests at least 30 days before the initial performance tests.
(f) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a state under section 111(c) of the CAA, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such state. In that event, affected sources within the state will be relieved of the obligation to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the state. The EPA will not approve a waiver of electronic reporting to the EPA in delegating enforcement authority. Thus, electronic reporting to the EPA cannot be waived, and as such, the provisions of this paragraph cannot be used to relieve owners or operators of affected facilities of the requirement to submit the electronic reports required in this section to the EPA.
(g) If an owner or operator is required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (g), the owner or operator must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information the owner or operator claims as CBI. Although the EPA does not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you an owner or operator wishes to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, the owner or operator must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information claimed to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as
CBI and will be made publicly available. The owner or operator must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (g).
(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
, and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. Owners and operators who do not have their own file sharing service and who require assistance with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments should email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(2) If an owner or operator cannot transmit the file electronically, the owner or operator may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. ERT files should be sent to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should be sent to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(h) Owners and operators required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, owners and operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the report was submitted.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(i) Owners and operators required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX may assert a claim of
force majeure
for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of
force majeure,
owners and operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) An owner or operator may submit a claim if a
force majeure
event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the
purposes of this section, a
force majeure
event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents the owner or operator from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the
force majeure
event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the
force majeure
event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the report was submitted.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of
force majeure
and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the
force majeure
event occurs.
[72 FR 64883, Nov. 16, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 43071, May 16, 2024]
§ 60.488a
Reconstruction.
For the purposes of this subpart:
(a) The cost of the following frequently replaced components of the facility shall not be considered in calculating either the “fixed capital cost of the new components” or the “fixed capital costs that would be required to construct a comparable new facility” under § 60.15: Pump seals, nuts and bolts, rupture disks, and packings.
(b) Under § 60.15, the “fixed capital cost of new components” includes the fixed capital cost of all depreciable components (except components specified in § 60.488a(a)) which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement which are commenced within any 2-year period following the applicability date for the appropriate subpart. (See the “Applicability and designation of affected facility” section of the appropriate subpart.) For purposes of this paragraph, “commenced” means that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of component replacement or that an owner or operator has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of component replacement.
§ 60.489a
List of chemicals produced by affected facilities.
Process units that produce, as intermediates or final products, chemicals listed in § 60.489 are covered under this subpart. The applicability date for process units producing one or more of these chemicals is November 8, 2006.

# Subpart VVb—Standards of Performance for Equipment Leaks of VOC in the Synthetic Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After April 25, 2023

# Source:
89 FR 43072, May 16, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.480b
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a)(1) The provisions of this subpart apply to affected facilities in the synthetic organic chemicals manufacturing industry.
(2) The group of all equipment (defined in § 60.481b) within a process unit is an affected facility.
(b) Any affected facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction,
or modification after April 25, 2023, shall be subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(c) Addition or replacement of equipment for the purpose of process improvement which is accomplished without a capital expenditure shall not by itself be considered a modification under this subpart.
(d)(1) If an owner or operator applies for one or more of the exemptions in this paragraph, then the owner or operator shall maintain records as required in § 60.486b(i).
(2) Any affected facility that has the design capacity to produce less than 1,000 Mg/yr (1,102 ton/yr) of a chemical listed in § 60.489 is exempt from §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b.
(3) If an affected facility produces heavy liquid chemicals only from heavy liquid feed or raw materials, then it is exempt from §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b.
(4) Any affected facility that produces beverage alcohol is exempt from §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b.
(5) Any affected facility that has no equipment in volatile organic compounds (VOC) service is exempt from §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b.
(e)(1)
Option to comply with 40 CFR part 65.
(i) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.482-1b through 60.487b for an affected facility. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, the requirements of §§ 60.485b(d), (e), and (f), and 60.486b(i) and (j) still apply. Other provisions applying to an owner or operator who chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1.
(ii) Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for that equipment. All sections and paragraphs that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) do not apply to owners or operators of equipment subject to this subpart complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.
(2)
Option to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H.
(i) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.482-1b through 60.487b for an affected facility. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, the requirements of § 60.482-7b, § 60.485b(d), (e), and (f), and § 60.486b(i) and (j) still apply.
(ii) Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for that equipment. All sections and paragraphs that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(2)(ii) do not apply to owners or operators of equipment subject to this subpart complying with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 63 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, must comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart A.
(f) Owners and operators of flares that are subject to the flare related requirements of this subpart and flare related requirements of any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63, may elect to comply with the requirements in § 60.619a, § 60.669a, or § 60.709a, in lieu of all flare related requirements in any other regulation in this part or 40 CFR part 61 or 63.
§ 60.481b
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (CAA) or in subpart A of this part, and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.
Capital expenditure
means, in addition to the definition in § 60.2, an expenditure for a physical or operational change to an existing facility that:
(1) Exceeds P, the product of the facility's replacement cost, R, and an adjusted annual asset guideline repair allowance, A, as reflected by the following equation: P = R × A, where:
(i) The adjusted annual asset guideline repair allowance, A, is the product of the percent of the replacement cost, Y, and the applicable basic annual
asset guideline repair allowance, B, divided by 100 as reflected by the following equation:

# Equation 1 to Capital Expenditure Paragraph (1)(i)
A = Y × (B ÷ 100);
(ii) The percent Y is determined from the following equation: Y = (CPI of date of construction/most recently available CPI of date of project), where the “CPI-U, U.S. city average, all items” must be used for each CPI value; and
(iii) The applicable basic annual asset guideline repair allowance, B, is 12.5.
Closed-loop system
means an enclosed system that returns process fluid to the process.
Closed-purge system
means a system or combination of systems and portable containers to capture purged liquids. Containers for purged liquids must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.
Closed vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and that is composed of hard-piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from a piece or pieces of equipment to a control device or back to a process.
Connector
means flanged, screwed, or other joined fittings used to connect two pipe lines or a pipe line and a piece of process equipment or that close an opening in a pipe that could be connected to another pipe. Joined fittings welded completely around the circumference of the interface are not considered connectors for the purpose of this regulation.
Control device
means an enclosed combustion device, vapor recovery system, or flare.
Distance piece
means an open or enclosed casing through which the piston rod travels, separating the compressor cylinder from the crankcase.
Double block and bleed system
means two block valves connected in series with a bleed valve or line that can vent the line between the two block valves.
Duct work
means a conveyance system such as those commonly used for heating and ventilation systems. It is often made of sheet metal and often has sections connected by screws or crimping. Hard-piping is not ductwork.
Equipment
means each pump, compressor, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, and flange or other connector in VOC service and any devices or systems required by this subpart.
First attempt at repair
means to take action for the purpose of stopping or reducing leakage of organic material to the atmosphere using best practices.
Fuel gas
means gases that are combusted to derive useful work or heat.
Fuel gas system
means the offsite and onsite piping and flow and pressure control system that gathers gaseous stream(s) generated by onsite operations, may blend them with other sources of gas, and transports the gaseous stream for use as fuel gas in combustion devices or in-process combustion equipment, such as furnaces and gas turbines, either singly or in combination.
Hard-piping
means pipe or tubing that is manufactured and properly installed using good engineering judgment and standards such as ASME B31.3, Process Piping (available from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, P.O. Box 2300, Fairfield, NJ 07007-2300).
In gas/vapor service
means that the piece of equipment contains process fluid that is in the gaseous state at operating conditions.
In heavy liquid service
means that the piece of equipment is not in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.
In light liquid service
means that the piece of equipment contains a liquid that meets the conditions specified in § 60.485b(e).
In-situ sampling systems
means nonextractive samplers or in-line samplers.
In vacuum service
means that equipment is operating at an internal pressure which is at least 5 kilopascals (kPa) (0.7 psia) below ambient pressure.
In VOC service
means that the piece of equipment contains or contacts a process fluid that is at least 10 percent VOC by weight. (The provisions of § 60.485b(d) specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in VOC service.)
Initial calibration value
means the concentration measured during the initial calibration at the beginning of each day required in § 60.485b(b)(1), or the most recent calibration if the instrument is recalibrated during the day (
i.e.,
the calibration is adjusted) after a calibration drift assessment.
Liquids dripping
means any visible leakage from the seal including spraying, misting, clouding, and ice formation.
Open-ended valve or line
means any valve, except safety relief valves, having one side of the valve seat in contact with process fluid and one side open to the atmosphere, either directly or through open piping.
Pressure release means
the emission of materials resulting from system pressure being greater than set pressure of the pressure relief device.
Process improvement
means routine changes made for safety and occupational health requirements, for energy savings, for better utility, for ease of maintenance and operation, for correction of design deficiencies, for bottleneck removal, for changing product requirements, or for environmental control.
Process unit
means components assembled to produce, as intermediate or final products, one or more of the chemicals listed in § 60.489. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient feed or raw materials and sufficient storage facilities for the product.
Process unit shutdown
means a work practice or operational procedure that stops production from a process unit or part of a process unit during which it is technically feasible to clear process material from a process unit or part of a process unit consistent with safety constraints and during which repairs can be accomplished. The following are not considered process unit shutdowns:
(1) An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that stops production from a process unit or part of a process unit for less than 24 hours.
(2) An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that would stop production from a process unit or part of a process unit for a shorter period of time than would be required to clear the process unit or part of the process unit of materials and start up the unit and would result in greater emissions than delay of repair of leaking components until the next scheduled process unit shutdown.
(3) The use of spare equipment and technically feasible bypassing of equipment without stopping production.
Quarter
means a 3-month period; the first quarter concludes on the last day of the last full month during the 180 days following initial startup.
Repaired
means that equipment is adjusted, or otherwise altered, in order to eliminate a leak as defined in the applicable sections of this subpart and, except for leaks identified in accordance with §§ 60.482-2b(b)(2)(ii) and (d)(6)(ii) and (iii), 60.482-3b(f), and 60.482-10b(f)(1)(ii), is re-monitored as specified in § 60.485b(b) to verify that emissions from the equipment are below the applicable leak definition.
Replacement cost
means the capital needed to purchase all the depreciable components in a facility.
Sampling connection system
means an assembly of equipment within a process unit used during periods of representative operation to take samples of the process fluid. Equipment used to take nonroutine grab samples is not considered a sampling connection system.
Sensor
means a device that measures a physical quantity or the change in a physical quantity such as temperature, pressure, flow rate, pH, or liquid level.
Storage vessel
means a tank or other vessel that is used to store organic liquids that are used in the process as raw material feedstocks, produced as intermediates or final products, or generated as wastes. Storage vessel does not include vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles, such as trucks, railcars, barges or ships.
Synthetic organic chemicals manufacturing industry
means the industry that produces, as intermediates or final products, one or more of the chemicals listed in § 60.489.
Transfer rack
means the collection of loading arms and loading hoses, at a single loading rack, that are used to fill tank trucks and/or railcars with organic liquids.
Volatile organic compounds
or VOC means, for the purposes of this subpart,
any reactive organic compounds as defined in § 60.2.
§ 60.482-1b
Standards: General.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b or § 60.480b(e) for all equipment within 180 days of initial startup.
(b) Compliance with §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b will be determined by review of records and reports, review of performance test results, and inspection using the methods and procedures specified in § 60.485b.
(c)(1) An owner or operator may request a determination of equivalence of a means of emission limitation to the requirements of §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-3b, 60.482-5b, 60.482-6b, 60.482-7b, 60.482-8b, and 60.482-10b as provided in § 60.484b.
(2) If the Administrator makes a determination that a means of emission limitation is at least equivalent to the requirements of § 60.482-2b, § 60.482-3b, § 60.482-5b, § 60.482-6b, § 60.482-7b, § 60.482-8b, or § 60.482-10b, an owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of that determination.
(d) Equipment that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2b through 60.482-11b if it is identified as required in § 60.486b(e)(5).
(e) Equipment that an owner or operator designates as being in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr is excluded from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2b through 60.482-11b if it is identified as required in § 60.486b(e)(6) and it meets any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The equipment is in VOC service only during startup and shutdown, excluding startup and shutdown between batches of the same campaign for a batch process.
(2) The equipment is in VOC service only during process malfunctions or other emergencies.
(3) The equipment is backup equipment that is in VOC service only when the primary equipment is out of service.
(f)(1) If a dedicated batch process unit operates less than 365 days during a year, an owner or operator may monitor to detect leaks from pumps, valves, and open-ended valves or lines at the frequency specified in the following table instead of monitoring as specified in §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-7b, and 60.483.2a:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(f)(1)
Operating time
(percent of hours during year)
Equivalent monitoring frequency time in use
Monthly
Quarterly
Semiannually
0 to
25
Quarterly
Annually
Annually.
25 to
50
Quarterly
Semiannually
Annually.
50 to
75
Bimonthly
Three quarters
Semiannually.
75 to 100
Monthly
Quarterly
Semiannually.
(2) Pumps and valves that are shared among two or more batch process units that are subject to this subpart may be monitored at the frequencies specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, provided the operating time of all such process units is considered.
(3) The monitoring frequencies specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are not requirements for monitoring at specific intervals and can be adjusted to accommodate process operations. An owner or operator may monitor at any time during the specified monitoring period (
e.g.,
month, quarter, year), provided the monitoring is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the last monitoring campaign. Reasonable intervals are defined in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) When monitoring is conducted quarterly, monitoring events must be separated by at least 30 calendar days.
(ii) When monitoring is conducted semiannually (
i.e.,
once every 2 quarters), monitoring events must be separated by at least 60 calendar days.
(iii) When monitoring is conducted in 3 quarters per year, monitoring events must be separated by at least 90 calendar days.
(iv) When monitoring is conducted annually, monitoring events must be separated by at least 120 calendar days.
(g) The standards in §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. As provided in § 60.11(f), this provision supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction in the general provisions in subpart A of this part.
§ 60.482-2b
Standards: Pumps in light liquid service.
(a)(1) Each pump in light liquid service shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.485b(b), except as provided in § 60.482-1b(c) and (f) and paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section. A pump that begins operation in light liquid service after the initial startup date for the process unit must be monitored for the first time within 30 days after the end of its startup period, except for a pump that replaces a leaking pump and except as provided in § 60.482-1b(c) and paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(2) Each pump in light liquid service shall be checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, except as provided in § 60.482-1b(f).
(b)(1) The instrument reading that defines a leak is specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) 5,000 parts per million (ppm) or greater for pumps handling polymerizing monomers;
(ii) 2,000 ppm or greater for all other pumps.
(2) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. This requirement does not apply to a pump that was monitored after a previous weekly inspection and the instrument reading was less than the concentration specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, whichever is applicable.
(i) Monitor the pump within 5 days as specified in § 60.485b(b). A leak is detected if the instrument reading measured during monitoring indicates a leak as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, whichever is applicable. The leak shall be repaired using the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) Designate the visual indications of liquids dripping as a leak, and repair the leak using either the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section or by eliminating the visual indications of liquids dripping.
(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9b.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected. First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the practices described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, where practicable.
(i) Tightening the packing gland nuts;
(ii) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.
(d) Each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, provided the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section are met.
(1) Each dual mechanical seal system is:
(i) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump stuffing box pressure; or
(ii) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10b; or
(iii) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero VOC emissions to the atmosphere.
(2) The barrier fluid system is in heavy liquid service or is not in VOC service.
(3) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(4)(i) Each pump is checked by visual inspection, each calendar week, for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seals.
(ii) If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section prior to the next required inspection.
(A) Monitor the pump within 5 days as specified in § 60.485b(b) to determine if there is a leak of VOC in the barrier fluid. If an instrument reading of 2,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(B) Designate the visual indications of liquids dripping as a leak.
(5)(i) Each sensor as described in paragraph (d)(3) is checked daily or is equipped with an audible alarm.
(ii) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(iii) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, based on the criterion established in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected.
(6)(i) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, it shall be repaired as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) A leak detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section shall be repaired within 15 days of detection by eliminating the conditions that activated the sensor.
(iii) A designated leak pursuant to paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(B) of this section shall be repaired within 15 days of detection by eliminating visual indications of liquids dripping.
(e) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 60.486b(e)(1) and (2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section if the pump:
(1) Has no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump housing;
(2) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background as measured by the methods specified in § 60.485b(c); and
(3) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(f) If any pump is equipped with a closed vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals to a process or to a fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10b, it is exempt from paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.
(g) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 60.486b(f)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor pump is exempt from the monitoring and inspection requirements of paragraphs (a) and (d)(4) through (6) of this section if:
(1) The owner or operator of the pump demonstrates that the pump is unsafe-to-monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The owner or operator of the pump has a written plan that requires monitoring of the pump as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and repair of the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section if a leak is detected.
(h) Any pump that is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site is exempt from the weekly visual inspection requirement of paragraphs (a)(2) and (d)(4) of this section, and the daily requirements of paragraph (d)(5) of this section, provided that each pump is visually inspected as often as practicable and at least monthly.
§ 60.482-3b
Standards: Compressors.
(a) Each compressor shall be equipped with a seal system that includes a barrier fluid system and that prevents leakage of VOC to the atmosphere, except as provided in § 60.482-1b(c) and paragraphs (h), (i), and (j) of this section.
(b) Each compressor seal system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall be:
(1) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is greater than the compressor stuffing box pressure; or
(2) Equipped with a barrier fluid system degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10b; or
(3) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero VOC emissions to the atmosphere.
(c) The barrier fluid system shall be in heavy liquid service or shall not be in VOC service.
(d) Each barrier fluid system as described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, barrier fluid system, or both.
(e)(1) Each sensor as required in paragraph (d) of this section shall be checked daily or shall be equipped with an audible alarm.
(2) The owner or operator shall determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.
(f) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier system, or both based on the criterion determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a leak is detected.
(g)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9b.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(h) A compressor is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, if it is equipped with a closed vent system to capture and transport leakage from the compressor drive shaft back to a process or fuel gas system or to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10b, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i) Any compressor that is designated, as described in § 60.486b(e)(1) and (2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section if the compressor:
(1) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as measured by the methods specified in § 60.485b(c); and
(2) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(j) Any existing reciprocating compressor in a process unit which becomes an affected facility under provisions of § 60.14 or § 60.15 is exempt from paragraphs (a) through (e) and (h) of this section, provided the owner or operator demonstrates that recasting the distance piece or replacing the compressor are the only options available to bring the compressor into compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (e) and (h) of this section.
§ 60.482-4b
Standards: Pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service.
(a) Except during pressure releases, each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service shall be operated with no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as determined by the methods specified in § 60.485b(c).
(b)(1) After each pressure release, the pressure relief device shall be returned to a condition of no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, except as provided in § 60.482-9b.
(2) No later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release, the pressure relief device shall be monitored to confirm the conditions of no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background, by the methods specified in § 60.485b(c).
(c) Any pressure relief device that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or equipped with a closed vent system capable of capturing and transporting leakage through the pressure relief device to a control device as described in § 60.482-10b is exempted from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)(1) Any pressure relief device that is equipped with a rupture disk upstream of the pressure relief device is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, provided the owner or operator complies with the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) After each pressure release, a new rupture disk shall be installed upstream of the pressure relief device as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after each pressure release, except as provided in § 60.482-9b.
§ 60.482-5b
Standards: Sampling connection systems.
(a) Each sampling connection system shall be equipped with a closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system, except as provided in § 60.482-1b(c) and paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Gases displaced during filling of the sample container are not required to be collected or captured.
(2) Containers that are part of a closed-purge system must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.
(3) Gases remaining in the tubing or piping between the closed-purge system valve(s) and sample container valve(s) after the valves are closed and the sample container is disconnected are not required to be collected or captured.
(4) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system shall be designed and operated to meet requirements in either paragraph (b)(4)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.
(i) Return the purged process fluid directly to the process line.
(ii) Collect and recycle the purged process fluid to a process.
(iii) Capture and transport all the purged process fluid to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 60.482-10b.
(iv) Collect, store, and transport the purged process fluid to any of the following systems or facilities:
(A) A waste management unit as defined in 40 CFR 63.111, if the waste management unit is subject to and operated in compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to Group 1 wastewater streams;
(B) A treatment, storage, or disposal facility subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266;
(C) A facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a state to manage municipal or industrial solid waste, if the process fluids are not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261;
(D) A waste management unit subject to and operated in compliance with the treatment requirements of 40 CFR 61.348(a), provided all waste management units that collect, store, or transport the purged process fluid to the treatment unit are subject to and operated in compliance with the management requirements of 40 CFR 61.343 through 40 CFR 61.347; or
(E) A device used to burn off-specification used oil for energy recovery in accordance with 40 CFR part 279, subpart G, provided the purged process fluid is not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261.
(c) In-situ sampling systems and sampling systems without purges are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
§ 60.482-6b
Standards: Open-ended valves or lines.
(a)(1) Each open-ended valve or line shall be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve, except as provided in § 60.482-1b(c) and paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(2) The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall seal the open end at all times except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line.
(b) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve shall be operated in a manner such that the valve on the process fluid end is closed before the second valve is closed.
(c) When a double block-and-bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or
line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section at all other times.
(d) Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system which are designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(e) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which would autocatalytically polymerize or would present an explosion, serious overpressure, or other safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double block and bleed system as specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.
§ 60.482-7b
Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.
(a)(1) Each valve shall be monitored monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.485b(b) and shall comply with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, § 60.482-1b(c) and (f), and §§ 60.483-1b and 60.483-2b.
(2) A valve that begins operation in gas/vapor service or light liquid service after the initial startup date for the process unit must be monitored according to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii), except for a valve that replaces a leaking valve and except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, § 60.482-1b(c), and §§ 60.483-1b and 60.483-2b.
(i) Monitor the valve as in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The valve must be monitored for the first time within 30 days after the end of its startup period to ensure proper installation.
(ii) If the existing valves in the process unit are monitored in accordance with § 60.483-1b or § 60.483-2b, count the new valve as leaking when calculating the percentage of valves leaking as described in § 60.483-2b(b)(5). If less than 2.0 percent of the valves are leaking for that process unit, the valve must be monitored for the first time during the next scheduled monitoring event for existing valves in the process unit or within 90 days, whichever comes first.
(b) If an instrument reading of 100 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(c)(1)(i) Any valve for which a leak is not detected for 2 successive months may be monitored the first month of every quarter, beginning with the next quarter, until a leak is detected.
(ii) As an alternative to monitoring all of the valves in the first month of a quarter, an owner or operator may elect to subdivide the process unit into two or three subgroups of valves and monitor each subgroup in a different month during the quarter, provided each subgroup is monitored every 3 months. The owner or operator must keep records of the valves assigned to each subgroup.
(2) If a leak is detected, the valve shall be monitored monthly until a leak is not detected for 2 successive months.
(d)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9b.
(2) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(e) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following best practices where practicable:
(1) Tightening of bonnet bolts;
(2) Replacement of bonnet bolts;
(3) Tightening of packing gland nuts;
(4) Injection of lubricant into lubricated packing.
(f) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486b(e)(2), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 100 ppm above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if the valve:
(1) Has no external actuating mechanism in contact with the process fluid,
(2) Is operated with emissions less than 100 ppm above background as determined by the method specified in § 60.485b(c), and
(3) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(g) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486b(f)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) The owner or operator of the valve demonstrates that the valve is unsafe to monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (a) of this section, and
(2) The owner or operator of the valve adheres to a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times.
(h) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.486b(f)(2), as a difficult-to-monitor valve is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) The owner or operator of the valve demonstrates that the valve cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface.
(2) The process unit within which the valve is located either:
(i) Becomes an affected facility through § 60.14 or § 60.15 and was constructed on or before January 5, 1981; or
(ii) Has less than 3.0 percent of its total number of valves designated as difficult-to-monitor by the owner or operator.
(3) The owner or operator of the valve follows a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve at least once per calendar year.
§ 60.482-8b
Standards: Pumps, valves, and connectors in heavy liquid service and pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service.
(a) If evidence of a potential leak is found by visual, audible, olfactory, or any other detection method at pumps, valves, and connectors in heavy liquid service and pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service, the owner or operator shall follow either one of the following procedures:
(1) The owner or operator shall monitor the equipment within 5 days by the method specified in § 60.485b(b) and shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(2) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual, audible, olfactory, or other indication of a potential leak within 5 calendar days of detection.
(b) If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(c)(1) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9b.
(2) The first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.
(d) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the best practices described under §§ 60.482-2b(c)(2) and 60.482-7b(e).
§ 60.482-9b
Standards: Delay of repair.
(a) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed if repair within 15 days is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur before the end of the next process unit shutdown. Monitoring to verify repair must occur within 15 days after startup of the process unit.
(b) Delay of repair of equipment will be allowed for equipment which is isolated from the process and which does not remain in VOC service.
(c) Delay of repair for valves and connectors will be allowed if:
(1) The owner or operator demonstrates that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and
(2) When repair procedures are effected, the purged material is collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device complying with § 60.482-10b.
(d) Delay of repair for pumps will be allowed if:
(1) Repair requires the use of a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system, and
(2) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.
(e) Delay of repair beyond a process unit shutdown will be allowed for a
valve, if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the process unit shutdown, valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted. Delay of repair beyond the next process unit shutdown will not be allowed unless the next process unit shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first process unit shutdown.
(f) When delay of repair is allowed for a leaking pump, valve, or connector that remains in service, the pump, valve, or connector may be considered to be repaired and no longer subject to delay of repair requirements if two consecutive monthly monitoring instrument readings are below the leak definition.
§ 60.482-10b
Standards: Closed vent systems and control devices.
(a) Owners or operators of closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of this section.
(b) Vapor recovery systems (for example, condensers and absorbers) shall be designed and operated to recover the VOC emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv), whichever is less stringent.
(c) Enclosed combustion devices shall be designed and operated to reduce the VOC emissions vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 ppmv, on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent or to provide a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds at a minimum temperature of 816 °C.
(d) Flares used to comply with this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 60.18.
(e) Owners or operators of control devices used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall monitor these control devices to ensure that they are operated and maintained in conformance with their designs.
(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (i) through (k) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in § 60.485b(b); and
(2) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures in § 60.485b(b).
(3) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.
(g) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 ppmv above background or by visual inspections, shall be repaired as soon as practicable except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(1) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(2) Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(h) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be complete by the end of the next process unit shutdown.
(i) If a vapor collection system or closed vent system is operated under a vacuum, it is exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.
(j) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section, as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section if they comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section; and
(2) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.
(k) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, as difficult to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section if they comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section:
(1) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and
(2) The process unit within which the closed vent system is located becomes an affected facility through §§ 60.14 or 60.15, or the owner or operator designates less than 3.0 percent of the total number of closed vent system equipment as difficult to inspect; and
(3) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years. A closed vent system is exempt from inspection if it is operated under a vacuum.
(l) The owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.
(2) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as difficult to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is difficult to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.
(3) For each inspection during which a leak is detected, a record of the information specified in § 60.486b(c).
(4) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 60.485b(b) during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.
(5) For each visual inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.
(m) Closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with provisions of this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions may be vented to them.
§ 60.482-11b
Standards: Connectors in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.
(a) The owner or operator shall initially monitor all connectors in the process unit for leaks by the later of either 12 months after the compliance date or 12 months after initial startup. If all connectors in the process unit have been monitored for leaks prior to the compliance date, no initial monitoring is required provided either no process changes have been made since the monitoring or the owner or operator can determine that the results of the monitoring, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes. If required to monitor because of a process change, the owner or operator is required to monitor only those connectors involved in the process change.
(b) Except as allowed in § 60.482-1b(c), § 60.482-10b, or as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor all connectors in gas and vapor and light liquid service as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)(3) of this section.
(1) The connectors shall be monitored to detect leaks by the method specified in § 60.485b(b) and, as applicable, § 60.485b(c).
(2) If an instrument reading greater than or equal to 500 ppm is measured, a leak is detected.
(3) The owner or operator shall perform monitoring, subsequent to the initial monitoring required in paragraph (a) of this section, as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section, and shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3)(iv) and (v) of this section. The required period in which monitoring must be conducted shall be determined from paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section using the monitoring results from the preceding monitoring period. The percent leaking connectors shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(i) If the percent leaking connectors in the process unit was greater than or equal to 0.5 percent, then monitor within 12 months (1 year).
(ii) If the percent leaking connectors in the process unit was greater than or equal to 0.25 percent but less than 0.5 percent, then monitor within 4 years. An owner or operator may comply with the requirements of this paragraph by monitoring at least 40 percent of the connectors within 2 years of the start of the monitoring period, provided all connectors have been monitored by the end of the 4-year monitoring period.
(iii) If the percent leaking connectors in the process unit was less than 0.25 percent, then monitor as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section and either paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) or (C) of this section, as appropriate.
(A) An owner or operator shall monitor at least 50 percent of the connectors within 4 years of the start of the monitoring period.
(B) If the percent of leaking connectors calculated from the monitoring results in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section is greater than or equal to 0.35 percent of the monitored connectors, the owner or operator shall monitor as soon as practical, but within the next 6 months, all connectors that have not yet been monitored during the monitoring period. At the conclusion of monitoring, a new monitoring period shall be started pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, based on the percent of leaking connectors within the total monitored connectors.
(C) If the percent of leaking connectors calculated from the monitoring results in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section is less than 0.35 percent of the monitored connectors, the owner or operator shall monitor all connectors that have not yet been monitored within 8 years of the start of the monitoring period.
(iv) If, during the monitoring conducted pursuant to paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section, a connector is found to be leaking, it shall be re-monitored once within 90 days after repair to confirm that it is not leaking.
(v) The owner or operator shall keep a record of the start date and end date of each monitoring period under this section for each process unit.
(c) For use in determining the monitoring frequency, as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)(3) of this section, the percent leaking connectors as used in paragraphs (a) and (b)(3) of this section shall be calculated by using the following equation:

# Equation 1 to Paragraph (c)
%C
L
= C
L
/C
t
* 100
Where:
%C
L
= Percent of leaking connectors as determined through periodic monitoring required in paragraphs (a) and (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
C
L
= Number of connectors measured at 500 ppm or greater, by the method specified in § 60.485b(b).
C
t
= Total number of monitored connectors in the process unit or affected facility.
(d) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in § 60.482-9b. A first attempt at repair as defined in this subpart shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.
(e) Any connector that is designated, as described in § 60.486b(f)(1), as an unsafe-to-monitor connector is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if:
(1) The owner or operator of the connector demonstrates that the connector is unsafe-to-monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section; and
(2) The owner or operator of the connector has a written plan that requires monitoring of the connector as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and repair of the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section if a leak is detected.
(f)(1) Any connector that is inaccessible or that is ceramic or ceramic-lined (
e.g.,
porcelain, glass, or glass-lined), is exempt from the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this section, from the leak repair requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, and from the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of §§ 63.1038 and 63.1039. An inaccessible connector is one that meets any of the provisions specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section, as applicable:
(i) Buried;
(ii) Insulated in a manner that prevents access to the connector by a monitor probe;
(iii) Obstructed by equipment or piping that prevents access to the connector by a monitor probe;
(iv) Unable to be reached from a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic-type scaffold that would allow access to connectors up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the ground;
(v) Inaccessible because it would require elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a permanent support surface or would require the erection of scaffold; or
(vi) Not able to be accessed at any time in a safe manner to perform monitoring. Unsafe access includes, but is not limited to, the use of a wheeled scissor-lift on unstable or uneven terrain, the use of a motorized man-lift basket in areas where an ignition potential exists, or access would require near proximity to hazards such as electrical lines, or would risk damage to equipment.
(2) If any inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connector is observed by visual, audible, olfactory, or other means to be leaking, the visual, audible, olfactory, or other indications of a leak to the atmosphere shall be eliminated as soon as practical.
(g) Except for instrumentation systems and inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connectors meeting the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section, identify the connectors subject to the requirements of this subpart. Connectors need not be individually identified if all connectors in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this subpart are identified as a group, and the number of connectors subject is indicated.
§ 60.483-1b
Alternative standards for valves—allowable percentage of valves leaking.
(a) An owner or operator may elect to comply with an allowable percentage of valves leaking of equal to or less than 2.0 percent.
(b) The following requirements shall be met if an owner or operator wishes to comply with an allowable percentage of valves leaking:
(1) An owner or operator must notify the Administrator that the owner or operator has elected to comply with the allowable percentage of valves leaking before implementing this alternative standard, as specified in § 60.487b(d).
(2) A performance test as specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be conducted initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.
(3) If a valve leak is detected, it shall be repaired in accordance with § 60.482-7b(d) and (e).
(c) Performance tests shall be conducted in the following manner:
(1) All valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service within the affected facility shall be monitored within 1 week by the methods specified in § 60.485b(b).
(2) If an instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater is measured, a leak is detected.
(3) The leak percentage shall be determined by dividing the number of valves for which leaks are detected by the number of valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service within the affected facility.
(d) Owners and operators who elect to comply with this alternative standard shall not have an affected facility with a leak percentage greater than 2.0 percent, determined as described in § 60.485b(h).
§ 60.483-2b
Alternative standards for valves—skip period leak detection and repair.
(a)(1) An owner or operator may elect to comply with one of the alternative work practices specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2) An owner or operator must notify the Administrator before implementing one of the alternative work practices, as specified in § 60.487a(d).
(b)(1) An owner or operator shall comply initially with the requirements for valves in gas/vapor service and valves in light liquid service, as described in § 60.482-7b.
(2) After 2 consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percent of valves leaking equal to or less than 2.0, an owner or operator may begin to skip 1 of the quarterly leak detection periods for the valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service.
(3) After 5 consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percent of valves leaking equal to or less than 2.0, an owner or operator may begin to skip 3 of the quarterly leak detection periods for the valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service.
(4) If the percent of valves leaking is greater than 2.0, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements as described in § 60.482-7b but can again elect to use this section.
(5) The percent of valves leaking shall be determined as described in § 60.485b(h).
(6) An owner or operator must keep a record of the percent of valves found leaking during each leak detection period.
(7) A valve that begins operation in gas/vapor service or light liquid service after the initial startup date for a process unit following one of the alternative standards in this section must be monitored in accordance with § 60.482-7b(a)(2)(i) or (ii) before the provisions of this section can be applied to that valve.
§ 60.484b
Equivalence of means of emission limitation.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart may apply to the Administrator for determination of equivalence for any means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions of VOC achieved by the controls required in this subpart.
(b) Determination of equivalence to the equipment, design, and operational requirements of this subpart will be evaluated by the following guidelines:
(1) Each owner or operator applying for an equivalence determination shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data to demonstrate equivalence of means of emission limitation.
(2) The Administrator will compare test data for demonstrating equivalence of the means of emission limitation to test data for the equipment, design, and operational requirements.
(3) The Administrator may condition the approval of equivalence on requirements that may be necessary to assure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emission reduction as the equipment, design, and operational requirements.
(c) Determination of equivalence to the required work practices in this subpart will be evaluated by the following guidelines:
(1) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data to demonstrate equivalence of an equivalent means of emission limitation.
(2) For each affected facility for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the required work practice shall be demonstrated.
(3) For each affected facility, for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the equivalent means of emission limitation shall be demonstrated.
(4) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence shall commit in writing to work practice(s) that provide for emission reductions equal to or greater than the emission reductions achieved by the required work practice.
(5) The Administrator will compare the demonstrated emission reduction for the equivalent means of emission limitation to the demonstrated emission reduction for the required work practices and will consider the commitment in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(6) The Administrator may condition the approval of equivalence on requirements that may be necessary to assure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emission reduction as the required work practice.
(d) An owner or operator may offer a unique approach to demonstrate the
equivalence of any equivalent means of emission limitation.
(e)(1) After a request for determination of equivalence is received, the Administrator will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
and provide the opportunity for public hearing if the Administrator judges that the request may be approved.
(2) After notice and opportunity for public hearing, the Administrator will determine the equivalence of a means of emission limitation and will publish the determination in the
Federal Register
.
(3) Any equivalent means of emission limitations approved under this section shall constitute a required work practice, equipment, design, or operational standard within the meaning of section 111(h)(1) of the CAA.
(f)(1) Manufacturers of equipment used to control equipment leaks of VOC may apply to the Administrator for determination of equivalence for any equivalent means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VOC achieved by the equipment, design, and operational requirements of this subpart.
(2) The Administrator will make an equivalence determination according to the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.
§ 60.485b
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A to this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the standards in §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b, 60.483a, and 60.484b as follows:
(1) Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part shall be used to determine the presence of leaking sources. The instrument shall be calibrated before use each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21. The following calibration gases shall be used:
(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air); and
(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane and air at a concentration no more than 2,000 ppm greater than the leak definition concentration of the equipment monitored. If the monitoring instrument's design allows for multiple calibration scales, then the lower scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is no higher than 2,000 ppm above the concentration specified as a leak, and the highest scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is approximately equal to 10,000 ppm. If only one scale on an instrument will be used during monitoring, the owner or operator need not calibrate the scales that will not be used during that day's monitoring.
(2) A calibration drift assessment shall be performed, at a minimum, at the end of each monitoring day. Check the instrument using the same calibration gas(es) that were used to calibrate the instrument before use. Follow the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, section 10.1, except do not adjust the meter readout to correspond to the calibration gas value. Record the instrument reading for each scale used as specified in § 60.486b(e)(8). Divide the arithmetic difference of the initial and post-test calibration response by the corresponding calibration gas value for each scale and multiply by 100 to express the calibration drift as a percentage.
(i) If a calibration drift assessment shows a negative drift of more than 10 percent, then all equipment with instrument readings between the appropriate leak definition and the leak definition multiplied by (100 minus the percent of negative drift/divided by 100) that was monitored since the last calibration must be re-monitored.
(ii) If any calibration drift assessment shows a positive drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then, at the owner/operator's discretion, all equipment with instrument readings above the appropriate leak definition and below the leak definition multiplied by (100 plus the percent of positive drift/divided by 100) monitored since the last calibration may be re-monitored.
(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the no-detectable-emission standards in §§ 60.482-
2b(e), 60.482-3b(i), 60.482-4b, 60.482-7b(f), and 60.482-10b(e) as follows:
(1) The requirements of paragraph (b) shall apply.
(2) Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part shall be used to determine the background level. All potential leak interfaces shall be traversed as close to the interface as possible. The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level is compared with 500 ppm for determining compliance.
(d) The owner or operator shall test each piece of equipment unless they demonstrate that a process unit is not in VOC service,
i.e.,
that the VOC content would never be reasonably expected to exceed 10 percent by weight. For purposes of this demonstration, the following methods and procedures shall be used:
(1) Procedures that conform to the general methods in ASTM E168-16 (Reapproved 2023), E169-16 (Reapproved 2022), or E260-96 (Reapproved 2019) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the percent VOC content in the process fluid that is contained in or contacts a piece of equipment.
(2) Organic compounds that are considered by the Administrator to have negligible photochemical reactivity may be excluded from the total quantity of organic compounds in determining the VOC content of the process fluid.
(3) Engineering judgment may be used to estimate the VOC content, if a piece of equipment had not been shown previously to be in service. If the Administrator disagrees with the judgment, paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section shall be used to resolve the disagreement.
(e) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that a piece of equipment is in light liquid service by showing that all the following conditions apply:
(1) The vapor pressure of one or more of the organic components is greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H
2
O at 68 °F). Standard reference texts or ASTM D2879-23 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the vapor pressures.
(2) The total concentration of the pure organic components having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kPa at 20 °C (1.2 in. H
2
O at 68 °F) is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight.
(3) The fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.
(f) Samples used in conjunction with paragraphs (d), (e), and (g) of this section shall be representative of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts the equipment or the gas being combusted in the flare.
(g) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the standards of flares as follows:
(1) Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part shall be used to determine visible emissions.
(2) A thermocouple or any other equivalent device shall be used to monitor the presence of a pilot flame in the flare.
(3) The maximum permitted velocity for air assisted flares shall be computed using the following equation:

# Equation 1 to Paragraph (g)(3)
V
max
= K
1
+ K
2
H
T
Where:
V
max
= Maximum permitted velocity, m/sec (ft/sec).
H
T
= Net heating value of the gas being combusted, MJ/scm (Btu/scf).
K
1
= 8.706 m/sec (metric units) = 28.56 ft/sec (English units).
K
2
= 0.7084 m
4
/(MJ-sec) (metric units) = 0.087 ft
4
/(Btu-sec) (English units).
(4) The net heating value (HT) of the gas being combusted in a flare shall be computed using the following equation:
Equation 2 to Paragraph (g)(4)
ER16MY24.025
Where:
K = Conversion constant, 1.740 × 10
−7
(g-mole)(MJ)/(ppm-scm-kcal) (metric units) = 4.674 × 10
−6
[(g-mole)(Btu)/(ppm-scf-kcal)] (English units).
C
i
= Concentration of sample component “i,” ppm
H
i
= net heat of combustion of sample component “i” at 25 °C and 760 mm Hg (77 °F and 14.7 psi), kcal/g-mole.
(5) Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part and ASTM D1945-14 (Reapproved 2019) (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the concentration of sample component “i.” ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) may be used in lieu of Method 18, under the conditions specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) If the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable.
(ii) ASTM D6420-18 may not be used for methane and ethane.
(iii) ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method.
(6) ASTM D240-19 or D4809-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the net heat of combustion of component “i” if published values are not available or cannot be calculated.
(7) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A-7 to this part, as appropriate, shall be used to determine the actual exit velocity of a flare. If needed, the unobstructed (free) cross-sectional area of the flare tip shall be used.
(h) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with § 60.483-1b or § 60.483-2b as follows:
(1) The percent of valves leaking shall be determined using the following equation:

# Equation 3 to Paragraph (h)(1)
%V
L
= (V
L
/V
T
) * 100
Where:
%V
L
= Percent leaking valves.
V
L
= Number of valves found leaking.
V
T
= The sum of the total number of valves monitored.
(2) The total number of valves monitored shall include difficult-to-monitor and unsafe-to-monitor valves only during the monitoring period in which those valves are monitored.
(3) The number of valves leaking shall include valves for which repair has been delayed.
(4) Any new valve that is not monitored within 30 days of being placed in service shall be included in the number of valves leaking and the total number of valves monitored for the monitoring period in which the valve is placed in service.
(5) If the process unit has been subdivided in accordance with § 60.482-7b(c)(1)(ii), the sum of valves found leaking during a monitoring period includes all subgroups.
(6) The total number of valves monitored does not include a valve monitored to verify repair.
§ 60.486b
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of this section.
(2) An owner or operator of more than one affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for these facilities in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies each record by each facility.
(3) The owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for each monitoring event required by §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-3b, 60.482-7b, 60.482-8b, 60.482-11b, and 60.483-2b.
(i) Monitoring instrument identification.
(ii) Operator identification.
(iii) Equipment identification.
(iv) Date of monitoring.
(v) Instrument reading.
(b) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-3b, 60.482-7b, 60.482-8b, 60.482-11b, and 60.483-2b, the following requirements apply:
(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.
(2) The identification on a valve may be removed after it has been monitored for 2 successive months as specified in § 60.482-7b(c) and no leak has been detected during those 2 months.
(3) The identification on a connector may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in § 60.482-
11b(b)(3)(iv) and no leak has been detected during that monitoring.
(4) The identification on equipment, except on a valve or connector, may be removed after it has been repaired.
(c) When each leak is detected as specified in §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-3b, 60.482-7b, 60.482-8b, 60.482-11b, and 60.483-2b, the following information shall be recorded in a log and shall be kept for 2 years in a readily accessible location:
(1) The instrument and operator identification numbers and the equipment identification number, except when indications of liquids dripping from a pump are designated as a leak.
(2) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.
(3) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.
(4) Maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part at the time the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable, except when a pump is repaired by eliminating indications of liquids dripping.
(5) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.
(6) The signature of the owner or operator (or designate) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a process shutdown.
(7) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 days.
(8) Dates of process unit shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.
(9) The date of successful repair of the leak.
(d) The following information pertaining to the design requirements for closed vent systems and control devices described in § 60.482-10b shall be recorded and kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) Detailed schematics, design specifications, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.
(2) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.
(3) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in § 60.482-10b(e), to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.
(4) Periods when the closed vent systems and control devices required in §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-3b, 60.482-4b, and 60.482-5b are not operated as designed, including periods when a flare pilot light does not have a flame.
(5) Dates of startups and shutdowns of the closed vent systems and control devices required in §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-3b, 60.482-4b, and 60.482-5b.
(e) The following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in §§ 60.482-1b to 60.482-11b shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) A list of identification numbers for equipment subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(2)(i) A list of identification numbers for equipment that are designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of §§ 60.482-2b(e), 60.482-3b(i), and 60.482-7b(f).
(ii) The designation of equipment as subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2b(e), § 60.482-3b(i), or § 60.482-7b(f) shall be signed by the owner or operator. Alternatively, the owner or operator may establish a mechanism with their permitting authority that satisfies this requirement.
(3) A list of equipment identification numbers for pressure relief devices required to comply with § 60.482-4b.
(4)(i) The dates of each compliance test as required in §§ 60.482-2b(e), 60.482-3b(i), 60.482-4b, and 60.482-7b(f).
(ii) The background level measured during each compliance test.
(iii) The maximum instrument reading measured at the equipment during each compliance test.
(5) A list of identification numbers for equipment in vacuum service.
(6) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator designates as operating in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr in accordance with § 60.482-1b(e), a description of the conditions under which the equipment is in VOC service, and rationale supporting the designation that it is in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr.
(7) The date and results of the weekly visual inspection for indications of liquids dripping from pumps in light liquid service.
(8) Records of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(8)(i) through (vi) of this section for monitoring instrument calibrations conducted according to sections 8.1.2 and 10 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part and § 60.485b(b).
(i) Date of calibration and initials of operator performing the calibration.
(ii) Calibration gas cylinder identification, certification date, and certified concentration.
(iii) Instrument scale(s) used.
(iv) A description of any corrective action taken if the meter readout could not be adjusted to correspond to the calibration gas value in accordance with section 10.1 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 of this part.
(v) Results of each calibration drift assessment required by § 60.485b(b)(2) (
i.e.,
instrument reading for calibration at end of monitoring day and the calculated percent difference from the initial calibration value).
(vi) If an owner or operator makes their own calibration gas, a description of the procedure used.
(9) The connector monitoring schedule for each process unit as specified in § 60.482-11b(b)(3)(v).
(10) Records of each release from a pressure relief device subject to § 60.482-4b.
(f) The following information pertaining to all valves subject to the requirements of § 60.482-7b(g) and (h), all pumps subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2b(g), and all connectors subject to the requirements of § 60.482-11b(e) shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) A list of identification numbers for valves, pumps, and connectors that are designated as unsafe-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve, pump, or connector stating why the valve, pump, or connector is unsafe-to-monitor, and the plan for monitoring each valve, pump, or connector.
(2) A list of identification numbers for valves that are designated as difficult-to-monitor, an explanation for each valve stating why the valve is difficult-to-monitor, and the schedule for monitoring each valve.
(g) The following information shall be recorded for valves complying with § 60.483-2b:
(1) A schedule of monitoring.
(2) The percent of valves found leaking during each monitoring period.
(h) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location:
(1) Design criterion required in §§ 60.482-2b(d)(5) and 60.482-3b(e)(2) and explanation of the design criterion; and
(2) Any changes to this criterion and the reasons for the changes.
(i) The following information shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location for use in determining exemptions as provided in § 60.480b(d):
(1) An analysis demonstrating the design capacity of the affected facility,
(2) A statement listing the feed or raw materials and products from the affected facilities and an analysis demonstrating whether these chemicals are heavy liquids or beverage alcohol, and
(3) An analysis demonstrating that equipment is not in VOC service.
(j) Information and data used to demonstrate that a piece of equipment is not in VOC service shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location.
(k) The provisions of § 60.7(b) and (d) do not apply to affected facilities subject to this subpart.
(l) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
§ 60.487b
Reporting requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit semiannual reports to the Administrator beginning 6 months after the initial startup date. Beginning on July 15, 2024, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the
CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for 1 year, whichever date is later, submit all subsequent reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. All semiannual reports must include the following general information: company name, address (including county), and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.
(b) The initial semiannual report to the Administrator shall include the following information:
(1) Process unit identification.
(2) Number of valves subject to the requirements of § 60.482-7b, excluding those valves designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-7b(f).
(3) Number of pumps subject to the requirements of § 60.482-2b, excluding those pumps designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-2b(e) and those pumps complying with § 60.482-2b(f).
(4) Number of compressors subject to the requirements of § 60.482-3b, excluding those compressors designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 60.482-3b(i) and those compressors complying with § 60.482-3b(h).
(5) Number of connectors subject to the requirements of § 60.482-11b.
(c) All semiannual reports to the Administrator shall include the following information, summarized from the information in § 60.486b:
(1) Process unit identification.
(2) For each month during the semiannual reporting period,
(i) Number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-7b(b) or § 60.483-2b,
(ii) Number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-7b(d)(1),
(iii) Number of pumps for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-2b(b), (d)(4)(ii)(A) or (B), or (d)(5)(iii),
(iv) Number of pumps for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-2b(c)(1) and (d)(6),
(v) Number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-3b(f),
(vi) Number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-3b(g)(1),
(vii) Number of connectors for which leaks were detected as described in § 60.482-11b(b)
(viii) Number of connectors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 60.482-11b(d), and
(ix)-(x) [Reserved]
(xi) The facts that explain each delay of repair and, where appropriate, why a process unit shutdown was technically infeasible.
(3) Dates of process unit shutdowns which occurred within the semiannual reporting period.
(4) Revisions to items reported according to paragraph (b) of this section if changes have occurred since the initial report or subsequent revisions to the initial report.
(d) An owner or operator electing to comply with the provisions of §§ 60.483-1b or 60.483-2b shall notify the Administrator of the alternative standard selected 90 days before implementing either of the provisions.
(e) An owner or operator shall report the results of all performance tests in accordance with § 60.8. The provisions of § 60.8(d) do not apply to affected facilities subject to the provisions of this subpart except that an owner or operator must notify the Administrator of the schedule for the initial performance tests at least 30 days before the initial performance tests.
(f) The requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a state under section 111(c) of the CAA, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such state. In that event, affected sources within the state will be relieved of the obligation to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section,
provided that they comply with the requirements established by the state. The EPA will not approve a waiver of electronic reporting to the EPA in delegating enforcement authority. Thus, electronic reporting to the EPA cannot be waived, and as such, the provisions of this paragraph cannot be used to relieve owners or operators of affected facilities of the requirement to submit the electronic reports required in this section to the EPA.
(g) If you are required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (g), you must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, you must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (g).
(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
, and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. ERT files should be sent to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should be sent to the attention of the SOCMI NSPS Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(h) If you are required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first
knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(i) If you are required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of
force majeure
for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of
force majeure,
you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a
force majeure
event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a
force majeure
event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (e.g., large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the
force majeure
event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the
force majeure
event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of
force majeure
and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the
force majeure
event occurs.
§ 60.488b
Reconstruction.
For the purposes of this subpart:
(a) The cost of the following frequently replaced components of the facility shall not be considered in calculating either the “fixed capital cost of the new components” or the “fixed capital costs that would be required to construct a comparable new facility” under § 60.15: Pump seals, nuts and bolts, rupture disks, and packings.
(b) Under § 60.15, the “fixed capital cost of new components” includes the fixed capital cost of all depreciable components (except components specified in § 60.488b(a)) which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement which are commenced within any 2-year period following the applicability date for the appropriate subpart. (See the “Applicability and designation of affected facility” section of the appropriate subpart.) For purposes of this paragraph, “commenced” means that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of component replacement or that an owner or operator
has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of component replacement.
§ 60.489b
List of chemicals produced by affected facilities.
Process units that produce, as intermediates or final products, chemicals listed in § 60.489 are covered under this subpart. The applicability date for process units producing one or more of these chemicals is April 25, 2023.

# Subpart WW—Standards of Performance for the Beverage Can Surface Coating Industry

# Source:
48 FR 38737, Aug. 25, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.490
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the following affected facilities in beverage can surface coating lines: each exterior base coat operation, each overvarnish coating operation, and each inside spray coating operation.
(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected facility which is identified in paragraph (a) of this section and commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 26, 1980.
§ 60.491
Definitions.
(a) All terms which are used in this subpart and are not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Act and subpart A of this part.
(1)
Beverage can
means any two-piece steel or aluminum container in which soft drinks or beer, including malt liquor, are packaged. The definition does not include containers in which fruit or vegetable juices are packaged.
(2)
Exterior base coating operation
means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating to the exterior of a two-piece beverage can body. The exterior base coat provides corrosion resistance and a background for lithography or printing operations. The exterior base coat operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven. The exterior base coat may be pigmented or clear (unpigmented).
(3)
Inside spray coating operation
means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating to the interior of a two-piece beverage can body. This coating provides a protective film between the contents of the beverage can and the metal can body. The inside spray coating operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven. Multiple applications of an inside spray coating are considered to be a single coating operation.
(4)
Overvarnish coating operation
means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating over ink which reduces friction for automated beverage can filling equipment, provides gloss, and protects the finished beverage can body from abrasion and corrosion. The overvarnish coating is applied to two-piece beverage can bodies. The overvarnish coating operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven.
(5)
Two-piece can
means any beverage can that consists of a body manufactured from a single piece of steel or aluminum and a top. Coatings for a two-piece can are usually applied after fabrication of the can body.
(6)
VOC content
means all volatile organic compounds (VOC) that are in a coating. VOC content is expressed in terms of kilograms of VOC per liter of coating solids.
(b) Notations used under § 60.493 of this subpart are defined below:
C
a
= the VOC concentration in each gas stream leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere (parts per million as carbon)
C
b
= the VOC concentration in each gas stream entering the control device (parts per million as carbon)
D
c
= density of each coating, as received (kilograms per liter)
D
d
= density of each VOC-solvent added to coatings (kilograms per liter)
D
r
= density of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (kilograms per liter)
E = VOC destruction efficiency of the control device (fraction)
F = the proportion of total VOC emitted by an affected facility which enters the control device to total emissions (fraction)
G = the volume-weighted average of VOC in coatings consumed in a calendar month per volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter of coating solids)
H
e
= the fraction of VOC emitted at the coater and flashoff areas captured by a collection system
H
h
= the fraction of VOC emitted at the cure oven captured by a collection system
L
c
= the volume of each coating consumed, as received (liters)
L
d
= the volume of each VOC-solvent added to coatings (liters)
L
r
= the volume of VOC-solvent recovered by an emission control device (liters)
L
s
= the volume of coating solids consumed (liters)
M
d
= the mass of VOC-solvent added to coatings (kilograms)
M
o
= the mass of VOC-solvent in coatings consumed, as received (kilograms)
M
r
= the mass of VOC-solvent recovered by emission control device (kilograms)
N = the volume-weighted average mass of VOC emissions to atmosphere per unit volume of coating solids applied (kilograms per liter of coating solids)
Q
a
= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream leaving the control device and entering the atmosphere (dry standard cubic meters per hour)
Q
b
= the volumetric flow of each gas stream entering the control device (dry standard cubic meters per hour)
R = the overall emission reduction efficiency for an affected facility (fraction)
S
e
= the fraction of VOC in coating and diluent VOC-solvent emitted at the coater and flashoff area for a coating operation
S
h
= the fraction of VOC in coating and diluent solvent emitted at the cure oven for a coating operation
V
s
= the proportion of solids in each coating, as received (fraction by volume)
W
o
= the proportion of VOC in each coating, as received (fraction by weight).
[48 FR 38737, Aug. 25, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.492
Standards for volatile organic compounds.
On or after the date on which the initial performance test required by § 60.8(a) is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge of VOC emissions to the atmoshpere that exceed the following volume-weighted calendar-month average emissions:
(a) 0.29 kilogram of VOC per litre of coating solids from each two-piece can exterior base coating operation, except clear base coat;
(b) 0.46 kilogram of VOC per litre of coating solids from each two-piece can clear base coating operation and from each overvarnish coating operation; and
(c) 0.89 kilogram of VOC per litre of coating solids from each two-piece can inside spray coating operation.
§ 60.493
Performance test and compliance provisions.
(a) Section 60.8(d) does not apply to monthly performance tests and § 60.8(f) does not apply to the performance test procedures required by this subpart.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8(a) and thereafter a performance test each calendar month for each affected facility.
(1) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that does not use a capture system and a control device to comply with the emission limit specified under § 60.492. The owner or operator shall determine the VOC-content of the coatings from formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating or by an analysis of each coating, as received, using Method 24. The Administrator may require the owner or operator who uses formulation data supplied by the manufacturer of the coating to determine the VOC content of coatings using Method 24 or an equivalent or alternative method. The owner or operator shall determine from company records the volume of coating and the mass of VOC-solvent added to coatings. If a common coating distribution system serves more than one affected facility or serves both affected and exiting facilities, the owner or operator shall estimate the volume of coating used at each facility by using the average dry weight of coating, number of cans, and size of cans being processed by each affected and existing facility or by other procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
(i) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC per volume of coating solids used during the calendar month for each affected facility, except as provided under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section. The volume-weighted average of the total mass of
VOC per volume of coating solids used each calendar month will be determined by the following procedures.
(A) Calculate the mass of VOC used (M
o
+ M
d
) during the calendar month for the affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.058
[ΣL
dj
D
dj
will be 0 if no VOC solvent is added to the coatings, as received.] where n is the number of different coatings used during the calendar month and m is the number of different diluent VOC-solvents used during the calendar month.
(B) Calculate the total volume of coating solids used (L
s
) in the calendar month for the affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.059
where n is the number of different coatings used during the calendar month.
(C) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC per volume of solids used (G) during the calendar month for the affected facility by the following equation:
ER17OC00.018
(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions discharged to the atmosphere (N) during the calendar month for the affected facility by the following equation:
EC16NO91.061
(iii) Where the value of the volume-weighted average mass of VOC per volume of solids discharged to the atmosphere (N) is equal to or less than the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.492, the affected facility is in compliance.
(iv) If each individual coating used by an affected facility has a VOC content equal to or less than the limit specified under § 60.492, the affected facility is in compliance provided no VOC-solvents are added to the coating during distribution or application.
(2) An owner or operator shall use the following procedures for each affected facility that uses a capture system and a control device that destroys VOC (e.g., incinerator) to comply with the emission limit specified under § 60.492.
(i) Determine the overall reduction efficiency (R) for the capture system and control device.
For the initial performance test, the overall reduction efficiency (R) shall be determined as prescribed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section. In subsequent months, the owner or operator may use the most recently determined overall reduction efficiency for the performance test providing control device and capture system operating conditions have not changed. The procedure in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (A), (B), and (C) of this section, shall be repeated when directed by the Administrator or when the owner or operator elects to operate the control device or capture system at conditions different from the initial performance test.
(A) Determine the fraction (F) of total VOC used by the affected facility that enters the control device using the following equation:
EC16NO91.062
where H
e
an H
h
shall be determined by a method that has been previously approved by the Administrator. The owner or operator may use the values of S
e
and S
h
specified in table 1 or other values determined by a method that has been previously approved by the Administrator.
Table 1—Distribution of VOC Emissions
Coating operation
Emission distribution
Coater/flashoff (S
e
)
Curing oven (S
h
)
Two-piece aluminum or steel can:
Exterior base coat operation
0.75
0.25
Overvarnish coating operation
0.75
0.25
Inside spray coating operation
0.80
0.20
(B) Determine the destruction efficiency of the control device (E) using values of the volumetric flow rate of each of the gas streams and the VOC content (as carbon) of each of the gas streams in and out of the device by the following equation:
EC16NO91.241
where n is the number of vents before the control device, and m is the number of vents after the control device.
(C) Determine overall reduction efficiency (R) using the following equation:
EC16NO91.242
(ii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC per volume of coating solids (G) used during the calendar month for the affected facility using equations (1), (2), and (3).
(iii) Calculate the volume-weighted average of VOC emissions discharged to the atmosphere (N) during the calendar month by the following equation:
EC16NO91.243
(iv) If the volume-weighted average of mass of VOC emitted to the atmosphere for the calendar month (N) is equal to or less than the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.492, the affected facility is in compliance.
(3) An owner or operator shall use the following procedure for each affected facility that uses a capture system and a control device that recovers the VOC (e.g., carbon adsorber) to comply with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.492.
(i) Calculate the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC per unit volume of coating solids applied (G) used during the calendar month for the affected facility using equations (1), (2), and (3).
(ii) Calculate the total mass of VOC recovered (M
r
) during each calendar month using the following equation:
EC16NO91.244
(iii) Calculate overall reduction efficiency of the control device (R) for the calendar month for the affected facility using the following equation:
EC16NO91.245
(iv) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC discharged to the atmosphere (N) for the calendar month for the afffected facility using equation (8).
(v) If the weighted average of VOC emitted to the atmosphere for the calendar month (N) is equal to or less than the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.492, the affected facility is in compliance.
[48 FR 38737, Aug. 25, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.494
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
The owner or operator of an affected facility that uses a capture system and an incinerator to comply with the emission limits specified under § 60.492 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate temperature measurement devices as prescribed below.
(a) Where thermal incineration is used, a temperature measurement device shall be installed in the firebox. Where catalytic incineration is used, temperature measurement devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.
(b) Each temperature measurement device shall be installed, calibrated, and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications. The device shall have an accuracy of 0.75 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 °C, whichever is greater.
(c) Each temperature measurement device shall be equipped with a recording device so that a permanent continuous record is produced.
[48 FR 38737, Aug. 25, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.495
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall include the following data in the initial compliance report required under § 60.8(a).
(1) Where only coatings which individually have a VOC content equal to or less than the limits specified under § 60.492 are used, and no VOC is added to the coating during the application or distribution process, the owner or operator shall provide a list of the coatings used for each affected facility and the VOC content of each coating calculated from data determined using Method 24 or supplied by the manufacturers of the coatings.
(2) Where one or more coatings which individually have a VOC content greater than the limits specified under § 60.492 are used or where VOC are added or used in the coating process, the owner or operator shall report for each affected facility the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC per volume of coating solids.
(3) Where compliance is achieved through the use of incineration, the owner or operator shall include in the initial performance test required under § 60.8(a) the combustion temperature (or the gas temperature upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed), the total mass of VOC per volume of coating solids before and after the incinerator, capture efficiency, and the destruction efficiency of the incinerator used to attain compliance with the applicable emission limit specified under § 60.492. The owner or operator shall also include a description of the method used to establish the amount of VOC captured by the capture system and sent to the control device.
(b) Following the initial performance test, each owner or operator shall identify, record, and submit quarterly reports to the Administrator of each instance in which the volume-weighted average of the total mass of VOC per volume of coating solids, after the control device, if capture devices and control systems are used, is greater than the limit specified under § 60.492. If no such instances occur during a particular quarter, a report stating this shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually.
(c) Following the initial performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall identify, record, and submit at the frequency specified in § 60.7(c) the following:
(1) Where compliance with § 60.492 is achieved through the use of thermal incineration, each 3-hour period when cans are processed, during which the average temperature of the device was more than 28 °C below the average temperature of the device during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.493.
(2) Where compliance with § 60.492 is achieved through the use of catalytic incineration, each 3-hour period when cans are being processed, during which the average temperature of the device immediately before the catalyst bed is more than 28 °C below the average temperature of the device immediately before the catalyst bed during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.493 and all 3-hour periods, when cans are being processed, during which the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed is less than 80 percent of the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed during the most recent performance test at which destruction efficiency was determined as specified under § 60.494.
(3) For thermal and catalytic incinerators, if no such periods as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section occur, the owner or operator shall state this in the report.
(d) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain at the source, for a period of at least 2 years, records of all data and calculations used to determine VOC emissions from each affected facility in the initial and monthly performance tests. Where compliance is achieved through the use of thermal incineration, each owner or operator shall maintain, at the source, daily records
of the incinerator combustion chamber temperature. If catalytic incineration is used, the owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the gas temperature, both upstream and downstream of the incinerator catalyst bed. Where compliance is achieved through the use of a solvent recovery system, the owner or operator shall maintain at the source daily records of the amount of solvent recovered by the system for each affected facility.
(e) The requirements of this section remain in force until and unless EPA, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such State. In that event, affected facilities within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with this subsection, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State.
[47 FR 49612, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 51384, Dec. 13, 1990; 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.496
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The reference methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided in § 60.8, shall be used to conduct performance tests.
(1) Method 24, an equivalent or alternative method approved by the Administrator, or manufacturers' formulation data from which the VOC content of the coatings used for each affected facility can be calculated. In the event of a dispute, Method 24 data shall govern. When VOC content of water-borne coatings, determined from data generated by Method 24, is used to determine compliance of affected facilities, the results of the Method 24 analysis shall be adjusted as described in Section 12.6 of Method 24.
(2) Method 25 or an equivalent or alternative method for the determination of the VOC concentration in the effluent gas entering and leaving the control device for each stack equipped with an emission control device. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 30 days in advance of any State test using Method 25. The following reference methods are to be used in conjunction with Method 25:
(i) Method 1 for sample and velocity traverses,
(ii) Method 2 for velocity and volumetric flow rate,
(iii) Method 3 for gas analysis, and
(iv) Method 4 for stack gas moisture.
(b) For Method 24, the coating sample must be a 1-litre sample collected in a 1-litre container at a point where the sample will be representative of the coating material.
(c) For Method 25, the sampling time for each of three runs must be at least 1 hour. The minimum sample volume must be 0.003 dscm except that shorter sampling times or smaller volumes, when necessitated by process variables or other factors, may be approved by the Administrator. The Administrator will approve the sampling of representative stacks on a case-by-case basis if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the testing of representative stacks would yield results comparable to those that would be obtained by testing all stacks.
[48 FR 38737, Aug. 25, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
