(a) Loans to public bodies will be guaranteed only in connection with the issuance of any class or series of industrial development bonds (as defined in section 103(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended (IRC)), the interest on which is included in gross income under IRC. No part of the loan guaranteed by Rural Development may extend to any class or series of industrial development bonds the interest on which is excludable from gross income under section 103(a)(1) of such Code. Before the execution of any Loan Note Guarantee, the lender will furnish Rural Development evidence regarding interest on bonds being taxable for Federal income tax purposes. Such evidence may be in the form of an unqualified opinion of a recognized bond counsel or a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. Guaranteed loans to public bodies can only be used for constructing and equipping industrial plants for lease to private businesses engaged in industrial manufacturing and does not provide funds for debt refinancing, working capital and other miscellaneous fees, charges or services. The lessee will have to provide necessary capital and sufficient financial strength to provide for a sound project.
(b) If Rural Development and the applicant agree that a guaranteed lender is not available, the application may be considered for an insured loan under the provisions of § 1980.481 of this subpart.

# Administrative
The lender is responsible for notifying the Rural Development of the taxability of the proposed bond issue.
§ 1980.489
[Reserved]
§ 1980.490
Business and industry buydown loans.
(a)
Introduction.
This section contains regulations for the Business and Industry Buydown (BIB) loan program. The purpose of this program is to provide loan guarantees with reduced interest rates to the borrowers, under the authority of Public Law 103-50 (107 Stat. 241). All provisions of Subparts A and E of this part apply to BIB loans except as provided in this section. All forms used in connection with a BIB loan will be those used with other B
I loans, except as provided in this section.
(b)
Location of applicants.
Businesses eligible for BIB loans shall be located within the area covered by the Presidential disaster declaration related to Hurricanes Andrew or Iniki or Typhoon Omar.
(c)
Interest rate.
(1) If the interest rate charged by the lender (note rate) on a BIB loan is a variable rate in accordance with § 1980.423 of this subpart, the base rate must be the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal
and the note rate must not exceed the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal by more than 100 basis points. If the note rate is fixed, it must not exceed by more than 100 basis points the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal on the day the Loan Note Guarantee is issued.
(2) The note rate for a BIB loan must be the same for the entire loan, including both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion.
(d)
Interest rate buydown.
(1) To be eligible for a BIB loan, the business must provide evidence and the lender and Rural Development must determine that, at least for the first year of the loan, the business will not have adequate cash flow to meet all of its financial obligations including the required payments on the proposed loan at the note rate, but that it can meet all obligations if the interest rate is reduced by 100 basis points.
(2) During the first year after a Loan Note Guarantee is issued for a BIB loan, Rural Development will pay one percentage point of interest on the loan directly to the lender, thereby reducing the interest due from the borrower by this amount. This interest payment shall be applied to both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion of the loan pro ratably according to Rural Development regulations.
(3) Interest payments by Rural Development may continue in subsequent years if the borrower's cash flow is insufficient to pay all obligations including the required payments on the proposed loan at the note rate. On or about each yearly anniversary of the promissory note the lender may submit a request to Rural Development for continued interest payments, along with current profit and loss and cash flow statements and cash flow projections to show that the continued payments are needed for another year. Rural Development will promptly review the material submitted, determine whether the continued interest payments by Rural Development are needed to provide for sufficient cash flow in the coming year, and notify the lender in writing of the determination. Once interest payments by Rural Development are terminated because the borrower's cash flow is determined to be sufficient to pay the note rate, such payments will not be made in subsequent years even if the cash flow decreases.
(4) This section does not authorize interest payments by Rural Development on B
I loans other than those approved under this section. To be eligible for interest payments by Rural Development, the loan must be designated as a BIB loan when approved and funded from funds authorized by Public Law 103-50.
(e)
Duration of BIB loan program.
No BIB loan will be obligated after September 30, 1994.
(f)
Administrative procedures.
(1) A lender that wants a B
I application considered under BIB authorities should so indicate by notation on Form RD 449-1 or by letter submitted with the Form RD 449-1.
(2) Rural Development will identify a loan as a BIB loan by notation in the top margin of Form RD 449-29 and by the “type of assistance” code listed on Form RD 1940-3, in accordance with the Forms Manual Insert.
(3) Rural Development will set out the interest buydown provisions in accordance with this section in the Conditional Commitment for Guarantee. When the Loan Note Guarantee is issued, the lender and Rural Development will execute Form RD 1980-48, “Business and Industry Interest Rate Buydown Agreement.”
(4) The lender will request the interest payment from Rural Development by submitting Form RD 1980-23, “Request for Business and Industry Interest Buydown Payment,” to the Rural Development servicing office. Each request must cover exactly 1 year and be filed within 30 days after the anniversary date of the promissory note, except when interest buydown is terminated between anniversary dates. The Rural Development servicing office will review each request for consistency with Rural Development regulations and the Form RD 1980-48 and, if the claim is valid, will approve it and forward it to the Finance Office for issuance of the payment to the lender.
(g)
Termination of interest buydown.
When Rural Development purchases a portion of a loan, interest buydown will cease on the entire loan. Interest
buydown will also cease upon termination of the Loan Note Guarantee or assumption/transfer of the loan. In the event of any action that causes the interest buydown to terminate, the lender will submit a claim on Form RD 1980-23 for interest buydown payments through the date of termination.
(h)
Loan purposes
—(1)
Refinancing.
Section 1980.452
Administrative
C.1. (d) of this subpart does not apply to BIB loans if refinancing is needed as a direct consequence of the disaster. In such cases, the lender may be allowed to bring previously unguaranteed exposure under the guarantee. No loan will be refinanced unless the current market value of the collateral is at least equal to the amount of the loan to be refinanced plus any new loan amount.
(2)
Agriculture.
Section 1980.412 (e) of this subpart does not apply to BIB loans. BIB loans may be guaranteed for agriculture production, which means the cultivation, production (growing), and harvesting, either directly or through integrated operations, of agricultural products (crops, animals, birds, and marine life, either for fiber or food for human consumption), and disposal or marketing thereof, the raising, housing, feeding (including commercial custom feedlots), breeding, hatching, control and/or management of farm or domestic animals.
(3)
Other eligible businesses.
Eligible types of businesses also include:
(i) Commercial nurseries primarily engaged in the production of ornamental plants and trees and other nursery products such as bulbs, florists' greens, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of vegetables from seed to the transplant stage.
(ii) Forestry which includes establishments primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, and related activities such as reforestation.
(iii) The growing of mushrooms or hydroponics.
(4)
Recreation and tourism.
Loans may be guaranteed for tourist or recreation facilities except for hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts, race tracks, gambling, or golf courses.
(5)
Meat processing facilities.
The provisions of § 1980.411 (a)(8) of this subpart will not apply to BIB loans. Loans, including working capital or debt refinancing, may be guaranteed for businesses engaged in meat or poultry processing.
(i)
Small Business Administration.
Section 1980.451 (c) of this subpart will not apply to BIB loans. Applicants eligible for Small Business Administration assistance will be advised of the availability of that assistance.
(j)
Loan guarantee limits.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 1980.420 of this subpart, the guarantee percentage on any BIB loan will not exceed 80 percent.
(k)
Credit quality analysis.
In analyzing the credit quality of a proposed loan to a business that has lost assets to a natural disaster, primary emphasis will be placed on the operating history of the business, rather than its current financial condition. If the business has a sound, profitable and successful history prior to the disaster and there are reasonable projections to ensure it can operate successfully in the future, the proposed loan may be approved even if disaster losses have caused somewhat less equity and/or collateral than would normally be expected for a B
I loan guarantee. If the business appears to have had an unprofitable operation or inadequate cash flow prior to the disaster, the proposed loan guarantee will not be approved.
(l)
Equity requirements.
The equity requirements of § 1980.441 of this subpart do not apply to BIB loans.
(m)
Collateral.
Section 1980.443 Administrative A. 2., 3., and 4. of this subpart will not apply to BIB loans. Collateral may be considered at its current market value without discount. Work-in-process inventory may be valued at the estimated market value of the finished product. All costs of producing the finished product must be included in the cash flow analysis.
(n)
Conditional approval.
A Form RD 449-14 may be issued prior to receipt of specific items needed to complete an application package provided:
(1) The lender and/or borrower demonstrates to the Government's satisfaction that it has a need for a prompt indication of the availability of the proposed loan guarantee and the conditions under which a guarantee are available;
(2) The specific items missing from the application package will take considerable time to obtain;
(3) The lender requests a commitment prior to providing the items;
(4) The attachment to Form RD 449-14 clearly states that the commitment is conditioned on satisfactory completion of the missing item(s) and a guarantee will not be issued unless all conditions of these regulations are met; and
(5) No Form RD 449-14 will be issued prior to the obligation date established with the Finance Office.
(o)
Financial statements.
All requirements of § 1980.451(i)(13) of this subpart will apply except that for BIB loans minimum annual financial statements will be required as follows:
(1) For nonagricultural borrowers with a B
I indebtedness of $500,000 or less, an annual compilation by an independent certified public accountant or by an independent public accountant licensed and certified on or before December 31, 1970.
(2) For nonagricultural borrowers with a B
I indebtedness of $500,001 through $1 million, an annual review by an independent certified public accountant or by an independent public accountant licensed and certified on or before December 31, 1970.
(3) For nonagricultural borrowers with a B
I indebtedness of more than $1 million, an annual audited financial statement by an independent certified public accountant or by an independent public accountant licensed and certified on or before December 31, 1970.
(4) All agricultural loans will require annual financial statements per § 1980.113 of subpart B of this part.
(p)
Agriculture loans.
The following additional provisions apply to BIB loan guarantees for businesses engaged in agriculture production:
(1)
General policy.
Paragraph (p) of this section contains the regulations for making BIB loans to farmers for agricultural purposes. BIB loans made for agricultural purposes are subject to the provisions in subparts A and E of this part except as specified. In addition, certain sections of subpart B of this part referenced in this section are applicable subject to the limitations outlined in this section. Several key loan processing and loan servicing requirements stipulated in subpart B of this part do not apply to loans made to borrowers under this section.
(2)
Type of guarantee.
BIB loans will be processed under the Loan Note Guarantee option of § 1980.101 (e)(1) of subpart B of this part Only. No loan will be processed for a Contract of Guarantee (Line of Credit) under § 1980.101 (e)(2) of subpart B of this part.
(3)
Farm size.
Loan guarantees may be made under the BIB program without regard to the size of the farming operation.
(4)
Filing and processing preapplications and applications.
If the applicant has already developed material for an Rural Development Farmer Programs loan or if the financial and production information required by § 1980.113 of subpart B of this part is needed to document repayment ability or is required by the lender, § 1980.113 of subpart B of this part may apply with the following exceptions:
(i) Lines of credit will not be guaranteed.
(ii) If the application is submitted solely for a farm as defined in § 1980.106(b) of subpart B of this part, Form RD 1980-25, “Farmer Programs Application,” or Form RD 449-1, will be used as an application for assistance.
(5)
Evaluation of applications.
If the application is developed and processed in accordance with § 1980.113 of subpart B of this part, the provisions outlined in § 1980.114 of subpart B of this part apply with the following exceptions:
(i) Timeframe requirements for the evaluation of applications and references to the Approved Lender Program are not applicable.
(ii) County Committee reviews of applications processed under this section will not be required. If the loan approval official finds the applicant is
not eligible, the applicant will be notified in writing of the reasons for disapproval and his/her rights through inclusion of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) statement. An opportunity will be given for an appeal as set out in subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.
(iii) When applied to BIB applications, references in § 1980.114 of this part to “County Office” shall normally be construed to mean “State Office.” References to “County Supervisor” shall be construed to mean “Business and Industry Chief or Community and Business Programs Chief, or other appropriate FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 official as designated by the State Director.”
(6)
Terms of loan repayment.
(i) Principal and interest on the loan will be due and payable to coincide with the cash flow operating cycle of the business. Installments will be scheduled for payment as agreed upon by the lender and borrower on terms that reasonably assure repayment of the loan. The first installment to include a repayment of principal may be scheduled for payment after the project is operational and has begun to generate income. However, such installment will be due and payable within 6 years from the date of the debt instrument and at least annually thereafter. Interest will not be deferred and will be due at least annually from the date of the debt instrument. In granting a deferral of principal payment, the loan approval official must document based on pro forma financial statements and the nature of the crop that the deferral of payments is necessary.
(ii) The lender must ensure that loan repayment is scheduled to eliminate the possibility of a balloon payment at the end of the loan.
(7)
Agriculture BIB loan purposes.
Loans may be made only for the following purposes:
(i) Operating purposes as outlined in § 1980.175 (c)(1) of subpart B of this part except for those stipulated in § 1980.175(c)(1)(iv) and (vii).
(ii) Real estate purposes as outlined in § 1980.180 (c) of subpart B of this part except for those stipulated in § 1980.180 (c)(1) and (4).
(iii) Refinancing in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section and §§ 1980.411 (a)(11), 1980.451 (i)(19), and 1980.452 Administrative C. (except § 1980.452 Administrative C. 1. (d) of this subpart.
(8)
Sodbuster and swampbuster requirements.
The requirements found in 7 CFR part 1970 will apply to loans made to enterprises engaged in agricultural production.
[52 FR 6501, Mar. 4, 1987, as amended at 81 FR 11048, Mar. 2, 2016]
§§ 1980.491-1980.494
[Reserved]
§ 1980.495
RD forms and guides.
The following RD forms and guides, as applicable, are used in connection with processing B
I, D
D, and DARBE loan guarantees; they are incorporated in this subpart and made a part hereof:
(a) Form RD 449-1. “Application for Loan and Guarantee” is referred to as “Appendix A,” or successor form,
(b) The “Certificate of Incumbency and Signature” or successor form,
(c) “Guidelines for Loan Guarantees for Alcohol Fuel Production Facilities” is referred to as “Appendix C. ”
(d) “Alcohol Production Facilities Planning, Performing, Development and Project Control” is referred to as “Appendix D. ”
(e) “Environmental Assessment Guidelines” is referred to as “Appendix E. ”
(f) Form RD 449-14, “Conditional Commitment for Guarantee, ” or successor form.
(g) “Liquidation and Property Management Guide” as found in RD Instruction 1980-E Appendix G.
(h) “Suggested Format for the Opinion of the Lender's Legal Counsel” is referred to as “Appendix H. ”
(i) “Instructions for Loan Guarantees for Drought and Disaster Relief” and Forms RD 1980-68, “Lender's Agreement—Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loans, ” 1980-69, “Loan Note Guarantee—Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loans, ” and 1980-70, “Assignment Guarantee Agreement—Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loans, or their successor forms.
(j) [Reserved]
(k) “Regulations for Loan Guarantees for Disaster Assistance for Rural
Business Enterprises” and Forms RD 1980-71, “Lender's Agreement—Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises Guaranteed Loans,” 1980-72 “Loan Note Guarantee—Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises Guaranteed Loans,” and 1980-73 “Assignment Guarantee Agreement—Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises Guaranteed Loans” or their successor forms.
[80 FR 9910, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 1980.496
Exception authority.
The Administrator may in individual cases grant an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart which is not inconsistent with any applicable law or opinion of the Comptroller General, provided the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Government's interest. Requests for exceptions must be in writing by the State Director and submitted through the Assistant Administrator, Community and Business Programs. Requests must be supported with documentation to explain the adverse effect on the Government's interest, propose alternative courses of action, and show how the adverse effect will be eliminated or minimized if the exception is granted.
§ 1980.497
General administrative.
Refer to RD Instruction 1980-E, Appendix G, Liquidation and Property Management Guide (available in any Rural Development office) for advice on how to interact with the OGC on liquidations and property management.
(a)
Office of the General Counsel (OGC).
In performing the Rural Development functions with respect to B
I, D
D, and DARBE loans, the advice and assistance of OGC may be sought and followed on any legal matter. However, it is the responsibility of the lender to ascertain that all requirements for making, securing, and servicing the loan are duly met. If Rural Development has any questions concerning the lender's resolution of these matters, OGC should be consulted. Assistance of OGC will be requested on all loans as specified herein and all liquidations and workouts.
(b)
Contact with OGC.
Initial informal contact with OGC should be made as soon as possible. Rural Development State Directors should use the following format in formally requesting legal assistance on workouts.
(1)
Origination:
All written requests should come from the State Director.
(2)
Method:
Request should be made by referral memorandum to the Regional Attorney setting forth a brief statement of the facts, the reason assistance is requested, the extent of legal assistance sought, the date when Rural Development's response to the lender's liquidation plan (if any) is due and:
(i)
Projected losses on collateral: e.g.,
projected losses on collateral are expected to be significant.
(ii)
Unusual or complex nature of primary collateral: e.g.,
multi-state foreclosures or foreclosure of leases or general intangibles.
(iii)
Presence of other major creditors or of senior creditors: e.g.,
guaranteed loan collateral may be subject to a prior lien or other creditors may have rights in other assets of borrower, such as inventory and accounts receivable.
(iv)
Litigation is pending or threatened: e.g.,
bankruptcy, other foreclosure suits.
(3)
Materials to submit:
Referral memorandums will be accompanied by a copy of lender's liquidation plan together with a copy of Rural Development's planned response and principal loan papers, conditional commitment for guarantee, guarantee documents and any comments from the National Office. If lender refuses to prepare a plan, the State Director should so state. DO NOT SEND DOCKETS unless specifically requested by OGC.
(c)
Reviews prior to issuance of the loan note guarantee.
After the conditional commitment for guarantee has been issued and proposed with closing documents prepared by the lender and forwarded to Rural Development with the lender's legal counsel's opinion in the suggested format of appendix H of this subpart, but prior to issuing the loan note guarantee, the State Director will forward the loan docket to the Regional Attorney for review. After an
administrative review, the State Director will include with the docket a letter with recommendations and indicating any special items, documents or problems that need to be addressed specifically which may have a significant impact upon the loan or may be contrary to the regulation. The docket will be assembled for OGC review in accordance with § 1980.451 Administrative B 5 of this subpart and indexed and tabbed.
(d)
Please submit the following for OGC review.
Copies of:
(1) Letter from Rural Development National Office authorizing loan guarantee containing conditions (if applicable);
(2) Form RD 449-14, including any amendments;
(3) Loan Agreement;
(4) Promissory Notes;
(5) Security documents—Real Estate Mortgage, Security Agreement, Financing Statements, and Leases (if applicable);
(6) Personal or corporation guarantees with related security documents;
(7) Proposed Form RD 449-35.
(8) Proposed Form RD 449-34.
(9) Proposed Form RD 449-36, if any;
(10) Proposed Lender's Certification (§ 1980.60 of subpart A of this part); and
(11) Opinion of Lender's Counsel in form prescribed by OGC.
(e)
Do not submit for OGC review
feasibility studies, title information, or the original application unless specifically requested to do so.
(f)
OGC advice.
The Regional Attorney will review the docket and furnish advice to Rural Development on whether it may issue the LOAN NOTE GUARANTEE AFTER THE LOAN IS CLOSED. SUCH ADVICE IS FOR THE benefit of RURAL DEVELOPMENT ONLY AND DOES NOT RELIEVE THE LENDER OF ITS RESPONSIBILITIES UNDER RURAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS. The Regional Attorney at his/her option may attend the loan closing. Upon receipt of the Regional Attorney's advice, the State Director will correct or cause to be corrected any noted deficiencies before issuing the Loan Note Guarantee.
(g)
Delegation of authority.
The State Director may delegate those administrative duties and responsibilities as authorized in the Administrative sections of this subpart, except those specifically reserved to the State Director.
§ 1980.498
Business and Industry Disaster Loans.
(a)
Introduction.
This section contains regulations for the Business and Industry Disaster (BID) loan program. The purpose of the program is to provide loan guarantees under the authority of the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1992, Public Law 102-368. These guaranteed loans cover costs arising from the consequences of natural disasters such as Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki and Typhoon Omar that occur after August 23, 1992, and receive a Presidential declaration. Also included are the costs to any producer of crops and livestock that are a consequence of at least a 40 percent loss to a crop, 25 percent loss to livestock, or damage to building structures from a microburst wind occurrence in calendar year 1992. No BID loan guarantee will be approved after September 30, 1993. All provisions of subparts A and E of part 1980 of this chapter apply to BID loans, except as provided in this section. All forms used in connection with a BID loan will be those used with other Business and Industry (B
I) loans, except as provided in paragraph (m) of this section.
(b)
Location of Applicants.
(1) Section 1980.405 of this subpart. “Rural area determinations,” will not apply to BID loans. BID loans may be made in rural and nonrural areas.
(2) Eligible borrowers' businesses must be located within the area covered by the Presidential declaration except for those with qualifying losses from microburst wind in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Loan Purposes.
Loans may be guaranteed for the purposes listed in § 1980.411 of this subpart, “Loan Purposes,” except as follows:
(1)
Relationship to disaster.
The purpose of any BID loan must be to cover costs that are a direct consequence of a natural disaster or microburst of wind in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The amount of the loan must not be greater than the amount
needed as determined by the Rural Development Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 (RDA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354) to cure problems caused by the natural disaster so that the business is reestablished on a successful basis. Facilities which were damaged or destroyed by the natural disaster may be repaired or replaced by modern facilities as necessary to ensure success. Replacement by modern facilities will not be made solely for the purpose of enlarging the business or increasing its production capacity. No loan for a change of purpose of the business will be guaranteed. Eligible refinancing or working capital loans should not exceed the amount needed to overcome the financial distress caused by the disaster. Losses that were adequately paid by insurance or by loans or grants from other sources will not be covered by BID loans. BID loans may be used to supplement insurance payments and/or assistance from other sources when the insurance coverage or other assistance is not sufficient.
(2)
Refinancing.
Section 1980.452, Administrative C.1.(d) of this subpart does not apply to BID loans. If refinancing is needed as a direct consequence of the disaster, the lender may be allowed to bring previously unguaranteed exposure under the guarantee. No loan will be refinanced unless the current market value of the collateral is at least equal to the amount of the loan to be refinanced plus any new loan amount.
(3)
Agriculture.
Section 1980.412(e) of this subpart does not apply to BID loans. BID loans may be guaranteed for agriculture production, which means the cultivation, production (growing), and harvesting, either directly or through integrated operations, of agricultural products (crops, animals, birds, and marine life, either for fiber or food for human consumption), and disposal or marketing thereof, the raising, housing, feeding (including commercial custom feedlots), breeding, hatching, control and/or management of farm or domestic animals.
(4)
Other eligible businesses.
Eligible types of businesses also include:
(i) Commercial nurseries primarily engaged in the production of ornamental plants and trees and other nursery products such as bulbs, florists' greens, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of vegetables from seed to the transplant stage.
(ii) Forestry which includes establishments primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, and related activities such as reforestation.
(iii) The growing of mushrooms or hydroponics.
(5)
Recreation and tourism.
Loans may be guaranteed for tourist or recreation facilities except for hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts, race tracks, gambling, or golf courses.
(6)
Meat processing facilities.
The provisions of § 1980.411(a)(8) of this subpart will not apply to BID loans. Loans, including working capital or debt refinancing, may be guaranteed for businesses engaged in meat or poultry processing.
(d)
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
BID loans may be approved only to the extent that the assistance is not available from FEMA. The case file will be documented to show that FEMA assistance was not available or that FEMA assistance is not adequate to cover the costs as a consequence of the natural disaster.
(e)
Small Business Administration.
Section 1980.451 of this subpart will not apply to BID loans. Applicants eligible for Small Business Administration assistance will be advised of the availability of that assistance.
(f)
Loan guarantee limits.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 1980.420 of this subpart, the guarantee percentage on any BID loan will not exceed 80 percent.
(g)
Credit quality analysis.
In analyzing the credit quality of a proposed loan to a business that has lost assets to a natural disaster, primary emphasis will be placed on the operating history of the business, rather than its current financial condition. If the business has a sound, profitable and successful history prior to the disaster and there are reasonable projections to ensure it can operate successfully in the future, the proposed loan may be approved even if disaster losses have caused somewhat less equity and/or
collateral than would normally be expected for a B
I guarantee. If the business appears to have had an unprofitable operation or inadequate cash flow prior to the disaster, the proposed loan guarantee will not be approved.
(h)
Equity requirements.
The equity requirements of § 1980.441 of this subpart do not apply to BID loans.
(i)
Feasibility studies.
Feasibility studies as required by § 1980.442 of this subpart will not be required for BID loans if the business has a successful financial history that supports future plans and projections that indicate a successful operation with adequate repayment ability.
(j)
Collateral.
Section 1980.443, Administrative A. 2., 3., and 4. of this subpart will not apply to BID loans. Collateral may be considered at its current market value without discount. Work-in-process inventory may be valued at the estimated market value of the finished product. All costs of producing the finished product must be included in the cash flow analysis.
(k)
Conditional approval.
A Form RD 449-14, “Conditional Commitment for Guarantee,” may be issued prior to receipt of specific items needed to complete an application package provided:
(1) The lender and/or borrower demonstrates to the Government's satisfaction that it has a need for a prompt indication of the availability of the proposed loan guarantee and the conditions under which a guarantee are available;
(2) The specific items missing from the application package will take considerable time to obtain;
(3) The lender requests a commitment prior to providing the items;
(4) The attachment to Form RD 449-14 clearly states that the commitment is conditioned on satisfactory completion of the missing item(s) and a guarantee will not be issued unless all conditions of these regulations are met; and
(5) No Form RD 449-14 will be issued prior to the obligation date established with the Finance Office.
(l)
Financial statements.
All requirements of § 1980.451(i)(13) of this subpart will apply except that it is modified for BID loans to require minimum annual financial statements as follows:
(1) For nonagricultural borrowers with a B
I indebtedness of $500,000 or less, an annual compilation by an independent certified public accountant or by an independent public accountant licensed and certified on or before December 31, 1970.
(2) For nonagricultural borrowers with a B
I indebtedness of $500,001 through $1,000,000, an annual review by an independent certified public accountant or by an independent public accountant licensed and certified on or before December 31, 1970.
(3) For nonagricultural borrowers with a B
I indebtedness of more than $1 million, an annual audited financial statement by an independent certified public accountant or by an independent public accountant licensed and certified on or before December 31, 1970.
(4) All agricultural loans will require annual financial statements per § 1980.113 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter.
(m)
Agriculture loans.
The following additional provisions apply to BID loan guarantees for businesses engaged in agriculture production:
(1)
General policy.
This portion of this section contains the regulations for making BID loans to farmers for agricultural purposes. BID loans made for agricultural purposes are subject to the provisions in subparts A and E of part 1980 of this chapter except as specified. In addition, certain sections of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter referenced in this section are applicable subject to the limitations outlined in this section. BID loans made for agricultural purposes are made under the Business and Industry authority of section 310B of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act of 1972, as amended. In this regard, several key loan processing and loan servicing requirements stipulated in subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter do not apply to loans made to borrowers under this section. Only the material cross-referenced to subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter is to be utilized in lieu of or in addition to the requirements contained in subpart E of part 1980 of this chapter in processing loans under this section.
(2)
Type of guarantee.
See § 1980.101(e)(1) of subpart B of part 1980
of this chapter. BID loans will be processed under the Loan Note Guarantee option ONLY. No loan will be processed for a Contract of Guarantee (Line of Credit) under this section.
(3)
Abbreviations and definitions.
(i) The abbreviations and definitions found in § 1980.106 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter will apply to loans made under this section except for “family farm,” “related by blood or marriage,” and “subsequent loans.”
(ii) Loan guarantees may be made under the BID program without regard to the size of the farming operation.
(4)
Loan eligibility requirements.
In addition to the requirements set forth in this subpart, the requirements in § 1980.175(b) of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter regarding controlled substances are applicable.
(5)
Filing and processing preapplications and applications.
If the applicant has already developed material for an Rural Development Farmer Programs loan or if the financial and production information required by § 1980.113 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter is needed to document repayment ability or is required by the lender, § 1980.113 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter may apply with the following exceptions:
(i) Lines of credit will not be guaranteed.
(ii) Timeframes for applicant/lender notification in § 1980.113 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter do not apply.
(iii) If the application is submitted solely for a farm as defined in § 1980.106(b) of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter, Form RDal Development 449-1, “Application for Loan and Guarantee,” will be used as an application for assistance.
(6)
Evaluation of applications.
If the application is developed and processed in accordance with § 1980.113 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter, the provisions outlined in § 1980.114 of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter applies with the following exceptions:
(i) Timeframe requirements for the evaluation of applications and references to the Approved Lender Program are not applicable.
(ii) County Committee reviews of applications processed under this section will not be required. If the loan approval official finds the applicant is not eligible, the applicant will be notified in writing of the reasons for disapproval and the opportunity given for an appeal as set out in subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.
(7)
Terms of loan repayment.
(i) Principal and interest on the loan will be due and payable to coincide with the cash flow operating cycle of the business. Installments will be scheduled for payment as agreed upon by the lender and borrower on terms that reasonably assure repayment of the loan. The first installment to include a repayment of principal may be scheduled for payment after the project is operable and has begun to generate income. However, such installment will be due and payable within 6 years from the date of the debt instrument and at least annually thereafter. All accrued interest will be due at least annually from the date of the debt instrument. In no case will interest be deferred. In granting a deferral of principal payment, the loan approval official must document based on pro forma financial statements and the nature of the crop that the deferral of payments is necessary.
(ii) The lender must ensure that loan repayment is scheduled to eliminate the possibility of a balloon payment at the end of the loan.
(8)
BID agriculture loan purposes.
Loans may be made only for the following purposes:
(i) Operating purposes as outlined in § 1980.175(c)(1) of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter except for those stipulated in paragraphs (c)(1) (iv) and (vii) of that section.
(ii) Real estate purposes as outlined in § 1980.180(c) of subpart B of part 1980 of this chapter except for those stipulated in paragraphs (c) (1) and (4) of that section.
(iii) Refinancing in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section and §§ 1980.411(a)(11), 1980.451(i)(19) and 1980.452 ADMINISTRATIVE C [except 1980.452 ADMINISTRATIVE C 1(d)] of this subpart.
(9)
Sodbuster and swampbuster requirements.
The requirements found in 7 CFR part 1970 will apply to loans made
to enterprises engaged in agricultural production.
[57 FR 45969, Oct. 5, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 34342, June 24, 1993; 58 FR 38952, July 21, 1993; 58 FR 41172, Aug. 3, 1993; 58 FR 48300, Sept. 15, 1993; 81 FR 11048, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1980.499
[Reserved]
§ 1980.500
OMB control number.
The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and have been assigned OMB control number 0575-0029. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 5 minutes to 58 hours per response, with an average of 4 hours per response including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Department of Agriculture, Clearance Officer, OIRM, Room 404-W, Washington, DC 20250; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (OMB# 0575-XXXX), Washington, DC 20503.
[55 FR 19245, May 8, 1990]
Appendixes A-B to Subpart E of Part 1980 [Reserved]
Pt. 1980, Subpt. E, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart E of Part 1980—Guidelines for Loan Guarantees for Alcohol Fuel Production Facilities
(1)
Alcohol production facility.
An alcohol production facility is a facility in which alcohol, suitable for use by itself or in combination with other substances as a substitute for petroleum or petrochemical feedstocks and not suitable for beverage purposes, is manufactured from biomass.
(2) The alcohol production facility includes all facilities necessary for the production and storage of alcohol and the processing of the by-products of alcohol production. The intent is to limit the alcohol and by-products processing facilities to those facilities which are necessary to yield marketable products and necessary for the financial success of the project. Further refinements, such as gasoline blending or the construction of facilities which use the alcohol or by-products in another manufacturing process, are not considered part of the alcohol production facility.
(3) Application will be reviewed by both B
I personnel and the State Office engineer and forwarded to the National Office if approval is recommended.
(4) The applicant should have a startup
tangible
book equity of 20-25 percent. (Appraisal surplus and subordinated debt are not eligible equity items.)
(5) Loan maturity maximums will be as follows:
Real Estate = 15-20 years
Machinery
Equipment = 10 years or less depending on the estimated life of the equipment involved
Working Capital = 3 years (It is assumed that the additional equity required for these projects will provide much of the working capital needs.)
(6) Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 will ordinarily only finance new facilities and will not get involved in the refinancing of existing ones.
(7) Priority consideration will be given to the use of primary fuel other than petroleum or natural gas.
(8) A positive energy balance must be indicated and supported by appropriate data; i.e., the energy content of the alcohol produced at the alcohol production facility must be greater than the energy used to produce the alcohol and by-products.
(9) Plant location, in relation to feedstocks, primary fuel and markets for product and by-products, will be an important consideration.
(10) Debt refinancing will only be considered in modest amounts and only when necessary to provide a satisfactory lien position.
(11) Feasibility studies are very important and required and will be prepared by competent and knowledgeable independent parties.
(12) Participating lenders must either have expertise or the availability of expertise in this field.
(13) The proposed operating managers must have experience in this or a related field.
(14) Alcohol Fuel Production Facilities are eligible for assistance under the Drought and Disaster (D
D) Guaranteed Loan and Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises (DARBE) programs described in this subpart, and especially in appendix I and appendix K. Any such loan must meet the requirements for D
D and DARBE loans.
[52 FR 6522, Mar. 4, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 40403, Oct. 17, 1988; 54 FR 5, Jan. 3, 1989, and 54 FR 26946, June 27, 1989; 54 FR 42483, Oct. 17, 1989]
Pt. 1980, Subpt. E, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart E of Part 1980—Alcohol Production Facilities Planning, Performing, Development and Project Control
(I)
Design Policy.
The borrower shall ensure or cause to be ensured that:
(A) All project facilities are designed utilizing accepted engineering practices and are conformed to applicable Federal, State and local codes and requirements.
(B) Proven equipment and processes are employed in all project facilities unless an exception is granted by the Administrator or designee of Rural Development (“Administrator”) in accordance with paragraph (B)(2) hereof and pilot equipment or processes are used instead.
(1) Equipment and processes shall be considered “proven” if they have been successfully employed in other commercial facilities.
(2) Equipment and processes shall be considered pilot if they have not been used in a commercial operation but have been operated on a scale such that all design and material problems have been identified and resolved and operations maintained to demonstrate that the equipment and process may be successfully applied to the proposed commercial operation. Pilot equipment and processes may be considered for use in the project subject to the following:
(a) The plans, specifications, and operational data for the applicable facilities are reviewed by the Administrator or designee and lender. If, in the opinion of Rural Development, the proposed processes or equipment are insufficiently developed to assure reliable and successful operation of the project, proven processes and equipment will be utilized.
(b) If pilot processes or equipment are used, the Administrator or designee will also require that:
(i) Reasonable provision is made in the project for conversion to proven equipment or processes; and
(ii) The borrower agrees to convert to proven equipment or processes if conversion is necessary to protect the interest of the Government in the project. A reserve account for this conversion may be required. This account will not be an eligible loan purpose.
(C) Facility and equipment design incorporates cost-effective primary fuel systems, energy recovery systems and conservation measures to the maximum extent that this is feasible and consistent with paragraphs (I), (A), and (B) of this appendix.
(II)
Technical Services.
(A) The borrower is responsible for selecting engineering consultants with suitable experience, training and professional competence in the design and construction of the project to assure that the completed project will operate at the prescribed levels of performance. In discharging its responsibility the borrower will obtain or cause to be obtained:
(1) Full engineering services for design and construction inspection for all project facilities. Resident inspection by qualified persons will be required.
(2) Agreements for engineering or design/build services which describe the project facilities in terms of the parameters critical to the successful operation of the project. The parameters shall include input quantities, conversion efficiency, rate of production and fuel consumption and product quality under normal operating conditions. The design parameters will be mutually agreed upon by the borrower, lender, the State Director and the project engineer, and may not be modified without the written concurrence of each of these parties. These agreements for engineering or design/build services will require, or the borrower will otherwise obtain, assurance satisfactory to the State Director that:
(a) The project engineer will maintain adequate insurance to protect the borrower, lender and the Government from incurring expenses resulting from errors and omissions of the engineer in performance of engineering services.
(b) The project engineer will certify that only proven equipment and processes will be utilized in the proposed development. The State Director may request evidence of successful operations of such proven equipment and process. If proven equipment or processes are not used in the project, the project engineer will identify these items and provide the information necessary for acceptance by the Administrator, borrower and lender in accordance with paragraph (I)(B)(2) of this appendix.
(c) If used equipment or existing facilities are incorporated into the project, they must be inspected by the project engineer or by another qualified engineer of the borrower. This engineer will prepare a report describing the proposed facilities or equipment and will comment on their suitability for use in the project. The report will also identify the modifications necessary for successful integration into the project. A cost estimate will also be included comparing new equipment and facilities to the proposed existing facilities or used equipment. Consideration must be given to the relative energy requirements of used and new facilities and their relative operation and maintenance costs.
(d) The project engineer or qualified individuals representing the manufacturer of principal equipment (or the designer/builder if the contractor has designed the plant) will visit the plant site at reasonable intervals for a period of one year after substantial completion of the project. Such personnel will be experienced in the proper operation
and maintenance of applicable plant components. A report will be presented to the borrower within two weeks of each site visit advising the borrower of operation and maintenance deficiencies. A copy of each report will be forwarded to the State Director and lender by the borrower.
(e) The project engineer will prepare or supervise the preparation of a record drawing of all facilities. One copy will be submitted to the lender and the borrower.
(f) The project engineer or another group acceptable to the State Director and lender will prepare an operation and maintenance manual and assist the borrower in the start-up of the project. The operation and maintenance manual will describe the specific operation and maintenance procedures which must be performed for the project to operate at its rated capacity and efficiency and outline product testing, quality control, plant safety and emergency shut-down procedures.
(g) The project engineer will assist the borrower in determining acceptability of materials, equipment and construction during the construction period, review shop drawings, payment estimates and change orders, and assist in determining substantial completion of the project and final completion of individual contracts. (1) The project is substantially complete when:
(i) Construction is sufficiently completed in accordance with plans and specifications so that the project may be used for its intended purpose, and;
(ii) The project is producing products of the quantity and quality and at the conversion and energy efficiencies proposed in the completed application submitted by the lender and borrower and approved by the Rural Development.
(2) The State Director must concur that the project is substantially complete. The following evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the State Director and lender, must be submitted prior to such concurrence:
(i) A certificate from the project engineer stating that all facilities are substantially complete. Engineers who design specialized equipment or processes must also certify that construction/fabrication is acceptable in accordance with plans and specifications previously approved by them. The certification of the project engineer must be based upon a project start-up procedure where the complete project operates continuously to reach steady-state operating conditions. During this period contractors and engineers will identify and correct problems in operations, malfunctions in equipment, failure in materials and defects in workmanship. After this pre-startup, the certifying engineers will monitor project operations for a continuous period of at least 72 hours or 3 consecutive batch runs as appropriate to assure that all equipment is operating satisfactorily at rated capacity and efficiency.
(ii) Copies of system operation and performance data obtained during project start-up.
(iii) Exceptions to substantial completion and a list of nonsubstantial items which must be completed prior to release of any contractor's retainage.
(3) If the project is not producing products of the required quantity or quality at the prescribed conversion efficiencies, even though the project is otherwise physically complete in accordance with paragraph (1)(i) of this subparagraph, the project engineer will prepare a report identifying the corrective actions including an estimate of costs and additional time necessary to meet established performance criteria.
(4) The project must be certified to be substantially complete by an independent engineer if any portion of the project has been designed or constructed by the borrower or the project engineer has participated in any portion of the construction.
(B) Modification of plans and specifications will not be made without the written authorization of the project engineer.
(C) The Administrator, State Director or their representative's acceptance or concurrence in feasibility studies, preliminary engineering reports, plans, specifications, contract documents and payment estimates will not be construed as a representation of the adequacy of same, reliability of cost estimates or quality of construction, nor will such acceptance or concurrence be deemed a waiver of any of the Government's rights or remedies against any person or party. Reviews and construction inspections by the Administrator, State Director or their representatives are solely for the benefit of the Government and do not relieve the lender or borrower of their obligation to conduct project reviews and inspections.
(III)
Project Construction.
(A) Borrower will not award contracts for the construction of any project facilities unless and until:
(1) The borrower obtains applicable construction permits, right-of-ways, licenses and approvals of Federal, State and local authorities for the construction of such facilities.
(2) The State Director concurs in applicable plans, specifications and contract documents. Standard contract documents prescribed for use in Federally assisted projects may be used as a guide for determining the minimum standards for contract acceptability. These standard documents are contained in Guides 18 and 19 of subpart A of part 1942 of this chapter (available in any Rural Development office).
(B) The borrower has the responsibility, without recourse to the Government, for the
settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements. This includes, but is not limited to, disputes, claims, protests of awards, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of laws are to be referred to such local, State, or Federal authority as may have proper jurisdiction.
(C) The borrower's attorney will review executed contract documents including applicable performance and payment bonds and provide a certificate to the borrower and lender that they have been properly executed and that the persons executing these documents have been properly authorized to do so.
(D) In all contracts for construction or facility improvement awarded in excess of $100,000, the borrower will require bonds and a bank letter of credit or cash deposit in escrow, assuring performance and payment of 100 percent of the contract cost. The surety will normally be in the form of performance and payment bonds. Such assurance shall remain in full force and effect through any warranty period. Companies providing performance and payment bonds must hold a certificate of authority as an acceptable security on Federal bonds and eligible for listing in Treasury circular 510 as amended and be legally doing business in the State the project is located.
(E) Project Changes. Any change in the project which may affect collateral, its ultimate financial viability or compliance with the conditional commitment must have prior approval of the lender and Rural Development.
(1) Construction contracts will require that change orders receive prior approval from the lender when such changes:
(a) Increase or decrease contract price,
(b) Materially modify contract provisions,
(c) Increase or decrease time of completion,
(d) Affect project performance.
(2) All change orders will be recorded on a chronologically numbered contract change order as they occur. Change orders will not be included in payment estimates until approved by the borrower, project engineer, the lender and concurred in by Rural Development.
(F) Warranty.
(1) All major equipment must be guaranteed by the manufacturer to be free from defects in workmanship and materials for a period of one year after start-up of equipment.
(2) Equipment purchased by a construction contractor or design builder and all other work shall be further warranted to be free from defect in material and workmanship by the contractor or the design builder for a period of one year after substantial completion of the contract.
(3) Applicable provisions to this effect shall be included in equipment purchase orders or construction contracts.
(G) Lease agreements. Where the right of use or control of any property or equipment not owned by the borrower is essential to the successful operation of the project during the life of the loan, such right will be evidenced by written agreements or contracts between the owner(s) of the property or equipment and the borrower. Lease agreements shall not contain provisions for restricted use of the site or facility, forfeiture or similiar cancellation clauses and shall provide for the right to transfer and lease without restriction. Such lease contracts or agreements shall be approved by the lender and Rural Development.
(IV)
Project Control.
(A) Lender will adopt project control procedures to assure that loan funds are applied for costs or expenses properly attributable to the project (“Eligible Project Costs”) as proposed in the completed application submitted by the lender and borrower and approved by the Rural Development. A project monitoring account (“Project Monitoring Account”) will be developed by lender for this purpose and concurred in by the State Director. This account will be divided into sufficient budget categories to permit adequate control of expenditures and identification of potential budget overruns.
(B) The first advance (“First Advance”) of loan funds to the borrower will not commence from the Project Monitoring Account prior to lender's receipt of evidence that:
(1) The borrower has made adequate provisions for compliance with measures established by Rural Development to mitigate adverse historical and environmental impacts.
(2) Applicable engineering, design/build, construction management, inspection and plant start-up service agreements have been obtained and accepted by the State Director and lender.
(3) The project engineer has prepared a detailed cost estimate and construction schedule for all facilities related to the project. This estimate must indicate that the project can be completed with the funds available as shown on the Form RD 449-1, “Application for Loan and Guarantee.” A reasonable contingency amount will be included in the estimate. This contingency shall be at least 20 percent of the estimated project costs for which firm bids have not been received plus 5 percent of project costs for which firm bids have been received. Construction interest and inspection costs will be based upon a reasonable contingency for unforeseen delays in project completion. The estimate shall include a listing with associated costs of any proposed leasing arrangements for property or equipment that is essential to the successful operation of the project.
(4) All funds necessary for construction of project facilities will be available when needed.
(5) The borrower has retained a project manager with sufficient experience and training to supervise project construction and engineering services on behalf of the borrower.
(C) After the first advance, future advances may be made from the Project Monitoring Account, in accordance with prudent lender practice, for all Eligible Project Costs established in the Project Monitoring Account, provided these payments are made in accordance with the terms of applicable contracts and are approved by the borrower and, when applicable, recommended by the project engineer.
(D) Payments for Eligible Project Costs incurred by the borrower prior to satisfaction of the conditions precedent to the first advance shall be made with borrower's funds or other nonguaranteed loan funds only. These payments however, may be reimbursed through the Project Monitoring Account as authorized by the State Director after compliance with Paragraph (IV)(B) hereof. The lender will not advance and the borrower will not be entitled to loan funds for reimbursement if such costs or expenses incurred by the borrower prior to the first advance, or at anytime thereafter, were for costs or expenses other than Eligible Project Costs. Costs and expenses accruing from but not limited to, interest charges imposed by construction, equipment, material or service contracts, penalty payments, damage claims, awards or settlements are not Eligible Project Costs unless specifically approved by the State Director.
(E) The lender will monitor the progress of construction and undertake the reviews and project inspections necessary to reasonably assure that funds are paid for Eligible Project Costs and that problems in project development are expeditiously reported to the State Director.
(F) The lender will prepare a monthly report showing the expenditures made from each budget category of the Project Monitoring Account. This report will include a review of construction progress including proposed and approved contract change orders and, to the extend possible, identify problems or delays in construction or other matters which might affect successful startup of project. This report may be based upon information received from the project engineer and borrower and/or independent observations of the lender. The report will be initialed by the borrower and project engineer and submitted to the State Director.
(G) Transfer of loan funds between established or new categories of the Project Monitoring Account or any change in the total amount of funds committed to the project will be reported by the lender to the State Director as these changes occur.
Pt. 1980, Subpt. E, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart E of Part 1980—Environmental Assessment Guidelines
In completing an assessment, it is important to understand the comprehensive nature of the impacts which must be analyzed. Consideration must be given to all potential impacts associated with the construction of the project and its operation and maintenance. The attainment of the project's major objectives often induces or supports changes in population densities, land uses, community services, transportation systems and resource consumption. The impacts of these activities must also be assessed.
The environmental reviewer should consult with appropriate experts from Federal, State and local agencies, universities and other organizations or groups whose views could be helpful in the assessment of potential impacts. In so doing, each discussion which is utilized in reaching a conclusion with respect to the degree of an impact should be summarized in the assessment as accurately as possible and include name, title, phone number, and organization of the individual contacted, plus the date of contact. Related correspondence should be attached to the assessment.
The Farmers Home Administration or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 assessment should be prepared in the following format; it should address the listed items and questions and contain as attachments the indicated descriptive materials, as well as the environmental information submitted by the applicant.
These assessment guidelines have been designed to cover the wide variety of impacts which may be encountered. Consequently, not every issue or potential impact raised in these guildlines may be relevant to each project. The purpose of the format is to give the preparer an understanding of a standard range of impacts, environmental factors and issues which may be encountered. In preparing an assessment, each topic heading identified by a roman numeral and each environmental factor listed under topic heading IV, such as air quality for example, must be addressed.
The amount of analysis and material that must be provided will depend upon the type and size of the project, the environment in which it is located and the range and complexity of the potential impacts. The amount of analysis and detail provided, therefore, must be commensurate with the magnitude of the expected impact. The analysis of each environmental factor (i.e., water quality) must be taken to the point that a conclusion can be reached and supported concerning the
degree of the expected impact with respect to that factor.
(I)
Project description and need.
Identify the name, project number, location, and specific elements of the project along with their sizes, and, when applicable, their design capacities. Indicate the purpose of the project, Rural Development's position regarding the need for it, and the extent or area of land to be considered as the project site.
(II)
Primary beneficiaries and related activities.
Identify any existing businesses or major developments that will benefit from the project and those which will expand or locate in the area because of the project. Specify by name, product, service, and operations involved.
Identify any related activities which are defined as interdependent parts of an Rural Development action. Such undertakings are considered interdependent parts whenever they either make possible or support the Rural Development action or are themselves induced or supported by the Rural Development action or another related activity. These activities may have been completed in the very recent past and are now operational or they may reasonably be expected to be accomplished in the near future. Related activities may or may not be Federally permitted or assisted. When they are, identify the involved Federal agency(s).
In completing the remainder of the assessment, it must be remembered that the impacts to be addressed are those which stem from the project, the primary beneficiaries, and the related activities.
(III)
Description of project area.
Describe the project site and its present use. Describe the surrounding land uses; indicate the directions and distances involved. The extent of the surrounding land to be considered depends on the extent of the impacts of the project, its related activities, and the primary beneficiaries. Unique or sensitive areas must be pointed out. These include residential, schools, hospitals, recreational, historical sites, beaches, lakes, rivers, parks, floodplains, wetlands, dunes, estuaries, barrier islands, natural landmarks, unstable soils, steep slopes, aquifer recharge areas, important farmlands and forestlands, prime rangelands, endangered species habitats, or other delicate or rare ecosystems.
Attach adequate location maps of the project area, as well as (1) a U.S. Geological Survey “15 minute” (“7
1/2
minute” if available) topographic map which clearly delineates the area and the location of the project elements, (2) the Department of Housing and Urban Development's floodplain map(s) for the project area, (3) site photos, (4) if completed, a standard soil survey for the project and, (5) if available, an aerial photograph of the site. When necessary for descriptive purposes or environmental analysis, include land use maps or other graphic information. All graphic materials shall be of high quality resolution.
(IV)
Environmental impact.
(1) Air Quality—Discuss, in terms of the amounts and types of emissions to be produced, all aspects of the project including beneficiaries' operations and known indirect effects (such as increased motor vehicle traffic) which will affect air quality. Indicate the existing air quality in the area. Indicate if topographical or meteorological conditions hinder or affect the dispersals of air emissions. Evaluate the impact on air quality given the types and amounts of projected emissions, the existing air quality and topographical and meteorological conditions. Discuss the project's consistency with the State's air quality implementation plan for the area, the classification of the air quality control region within which the project is located, and the status of compliance with air quality standards within that region. Cite any contacts with appropriate experts and agencies which must issue necessary permits.
(2) Water Quality—Discuss, in terms of amounts and types of effluents all aspects of the project, including primary beneficiaries' operations and known indirect effects which will affect water quality. Indicate the existing water quality of surface and/or underground water to be affected. Evaluate the impacts of the project on this existing water quality. Indicate if an aquifer recharge area is to be adversely affected. If the project lies within or will affect a sole source aquifer recharge area as designated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), contact the appropriate EPA regional office to determine if its review is necessary. If it is, attach the results of its review.
Indicate the source and available supply of raw water and the extent to which the additional demand will affect the raw water supply. Describe the wastewater treatment system(s) to be used and indicate their capacity and their adequacy in terms of the degree of treatment provided. Discuss the characteristics and uses of the receiving waters for any sources of discharge. If the treatment systems are or will be inadequate or overloaded, describe the steps being taken for necessary improvements and their completion dates. Compare such dates to the completion date of the Rural Development project. Analyze the impacts on the receiving water during any estimated period of inadequate treatment.
Discuss the project's consistency with the water quality planning for the area, such as EPA's Section 208 areawide waste treatment management plan. Describe how surface runoff is to be handled and the effect of erosion on streams.
Evaluate the extent to which the project may create shortages for or otherwise adversely affect the withdrawal capabilities of other present users of the raw water supply,
particularly in terms of possible human health, safety, or welfare problems.
For projects utilizing a groundwater supply, evaluate the potential for the project to exceed the safe pumping rate for the aquifer to the extent that it would (1) adversely affect the pumping capability of present users, (2) increase the likelihood of brackish or saltwater intrusion, thereby decreasing water quality, or (3) substantially increase surface subsidence risks.
For projects utilizing a surface water supply, evaluate the potential for the project to (1) reduce flows below the minimum required for the protection of fish and wildlife or (2) reduce water quality standards below those established for the stream classification at the point of withdrawal or the adjacent downstream section.
Cite contacts with appropriate experts and agencies that must issue necessary permits.
(3) Solid Waste Management—Indicate all aspects of the project, including primary beneficiaries' operations, and known indirect effects which will necessitate the disposal of solid wastes. Indicate the kinds and expected quantities of solid wastes involved and the disposal techniques to be used. Evaluate the adequacy to these techniques especially in relationship to air and water quality. Indicate if recycling or resource recovery programs are or will be used. Cite any contacts with appropriate experts and agencies that must issue necessary permits.
(4) Land Use—Given the description of land uses as previously indicated, evaluate (a) the effect of changing the land use of the project site and (b) how this change in land use will affect the surrounding land uses and those within the project's area of environmental impact. Particularly address the potential impacts to the unique or sensitive areas discussed under Section III, Description of Project Area. Also address any changes in land use which may result from demand for feedstock for the plant's operation. Describe the existing land use plan and zoning restrictions for the project area. Evaluate the consistency of the project and its impacts with these plans.
(5) Transportation—Describe available facilities such as highways and rail. Discuss whether the project will result in an increase in motor vehicle traffic and the existing roads' ability to safely accommodate this increase. Indicate if additional traffic control devices are to be installed. Describe new traffic patterns which will arise because of the project. Discuss how these new traffic patterns will affect the land uses described above, especially residential, hospitals, schools, and recreational. Describe the consistency of the project's transportation impacts with the transportation plans for the area and any air quality control plans. Cite any contact with appropriate experts.
(6) Natural Environment—Indicate all aspects of the project, including construction, beneficiaries' operations, and known indirect effects which will affect the natural environment including wildlife, their habitats, and unique natural features. Cite contacts with appropriate experts. If an area listed on the National Registry of Natural Landmarks may be affected, consult with the Department of Interior and document these consultations and any agreements reached regarding avoidance or mitigation of potential adverse impacts.
(7) Human Population—Indicate the number of people to be relocated and arrangements being made for this relocation. Discuss how impacts resulting from the project such as changes in land use, transportation changes, air emissions, noise, odor, etc., will effect nearby residents and their lifestyles or users of the project area and surrounding areas. Cite contacts with appropriate experts.
(8) Construction—Indicate the potential effects of construction of the project on air quality, water quality noise levels, solid waste disposal, soil erosion and siltation. Describe the measures that will be employed to limit adverse effects. Give particular consideration to erosion, stream siltation, and clearing operations.
(9) Energy Impacts—Indicate the project's and its primary beneficiaries' effects on the area's existing energy supplies. This discussion should address not only the direct energy utilization, but any major indirect utilization resulting from the siting of the project. Describe the availability of these supplies to the project site. Discuss whether the project will utilize a large share of the remaining capacity of an energy supply or will create a shortage of such supply. Discuss any steps to be taken to conserve energy.
(10) Discuss any of the following areas which may be relevant: noise, vibrations, safety, seismic conditions, fire prone locations, radiation, and aesthetic considerations. Cite any discussions with appropriate experts.
(V)
Coastal Zone Management Act.
Indicate if the project is within or will impact a coastal area defined as such by the state's approved Coastal Zone Management Program. If so, consult with the State agency responsible for the Program to determine the project's consistency with it. The results of this coordination shall be included in the assessment and considered in completing the environmental impact determination and environmental findings,
(VI)
Compliance with Advisory Council on Historic Preservation's regulations.
In this section, the environmental reviewer shall detail the steps taken to comply with the above regulations as specified in Subpart F of Part 1901 of this Chapter. First, indicate that the
National Register of Historic Places, including its monthly supplements, has been reviewed and whether there are any listed properties located within the area to be affected by the project. Second, indicate the steps taken such as historical/archeological surveys to determine if there are any properties eligible for listing located within the affected area. Summarize the results of the consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) and attach appropriate documentation of the SHPO's views. Discuss the views of any other experts contacted. Based upon the above review process and the views of the SHPO, state whether or not an eligible or listed property will be affected.
If there will be an effect, discuss all of the steps and protective measures taken to complete the Advisory Council's regulations. Describe the affected property and the nature of the effect. Attach to the asessment the results of the coordination process with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
(VII)
Compliance with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
Indicate whether the project will affect a river or portion of it which is either included in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System or designated for potential addition to the System. This analysis shall be conducted through discussions with the appropriate regional office of the National Park Service or the Forest Service when its lands are involved, as well as the appropriate State agencies having implementation authorities. A summary of discussions held or any required formal coordination shall be included in the assessment.
(VIII)
Compliance with the Endangered Species Act.
Indicate whether the project will either (1) affect a listed endangered or threatened species or critical habitat or (2) adversely affect a proposed critical habitat for an endangered or threatened species or jeopardize the continued existence of a proposed endangered or threatened species. This analysis shall be conducted in consultation with the Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service, when appropriate.
The results of any required coordination shall be included in the assessment along with any completed biological opinion and mitigation measures to be required for the project. These factors shall be considered in completing the environmental impact determination.
(IX)
Compliance with Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, and Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands.
Indicate whether the project is either located within a 100-year floodplain (500-year floodplain for a critical action) or a wetland or will impact a floodplain or wetland. If so, determine if there is a practicable alternative project or location. If there is no such alternative, determine whether all practicable mitigation measures are included in the project and document as an attachment these determinations and the steps taken to inform the public, locate alternatives, and mitigate potential adverse impacts. See the U.S. Water Resource Council's
Floodplain Management Guidelines
for more specific guidance.
(X)
State Environmental Policy Act.
Indicate if the proposed project is subject to a State environmental policy act or similar regulation. Summarize the results of compliance with these requirements and attach available documentation.
(XI)
Consultation requirements.
Attach the comments of any State or local agency received through the implementation of Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.
(XII)
Environmental analysis of participating Federal agency.
Indicate if another federal agency is participating in the project either through the provision of additional funds, a companion project, or a permit review authority. Summarize the results of the involved agency's environmental impact analysis and attach available documentation.
(XIII)
Reaction to project.
Discuss any negative comments or public views raised about the project and the consideration given to these comments. Indicate whether a public hearing or public information meeting has been held either by the applicant or Rural Development to include a summary of the results and any objections raised. Indicate any other examples of the community's awareness of the project, such as newspaper articles or public notifications.
(XIV)
Cumulative impacts.
Summarize the cumulative impacts of this project and the related activities. Give particular attention to land use changes and air and water quality impacts. Summarize the results of the environmental impact analysis done for any of these related activities and/or your discussion with the sponsoring agencies. Attach available documentation of the analysis.
(XV)
Adverse impact.
Summarize the potential adverse impacts of the proposal as pointed out in the above analysis.
(XVI)
Alternatives.
Discuss the feasibility of alternatives to the project and their environmental impacts. These alternatives should include (a) alternative location, (b) alternative designs, (c) alternative projects having similar benefits, and (d) no project.
(XVII)
Mitigation measures.
Describe any measures which will be taken or required by Rural Development to avoid or mitigate the identified adverse impacts. Such measures shall be included as special requirements or provisions to the offer of financial assistance.
Appendixes F-G to Subpart E of Part 1980 [Reserved]
Pt. 1980, Subpt. E, App. H

# Appendix H to Subpart E of Part 1980—Suggested Format for the Opinion of the Lender's Legal Counsel

# (Legal Opinion to be Retyped on Lender's Counsel's Letterhead)
To: (Name of Lender).
I/We have acted as counsel to (Lender) ________ in connection with a $ (amount) ________ (type) ________ loan by the (Lender) ________ (hereinafter “the Lender” to (Borrower) ________ (hereinafter “Borrower”), the terms of which loans are set forth in a certain Loan Agreement (hereinafter “the Loan Agreement”) executed by the Lender and Borrower on (date) ________.
In connection with this loan, I/we have examined:
1. The corporate records of Borrower, including its Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws and Resolutions of its Board of Directors.
2. The Loan Agreement between the Lender and Borrower.
3. The Security Agreement executed by Borrower on (date) ________.
4. The Guaranty (where applicable) executed on (date) ________ by (personal guarantors) ________.
5. Financing Statements executed by Borrower and the Lender.
6. Real Estate Mortgages dated ________ and executed by Borrower in favor of the Lender.
7. Real Estate Mortgages dated ________ and/or other security documents dated________ executed by (personal guarantors) ________ in favor of the Bank.
8. The appropriate title and/or lien searches relating to Borrower's property.
9. The pledge of stock and instruments related thereto.
10. Such other materials, including relevant provisions of the laws of this state as I/we have deemed pertinent as a basis for rendering the opinion hereafter set forth.

# In Some Circumstances
11. Lease(s) between Borrower and (lessor's name) ________ for the rental of (property being rented) ________, (if real property, give the address of the premises; if machinery equipment, etc., give brief, precise description of property for a (length of lease) ________ term commencing on (date) ________.
Based on the foregoing examinations, I am/we are of the opinion and advise you that:
1. Borrower is a duly organized corporation in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth/State of (State) ________.
2. Borrower has the necessary corporate power to authorize and has taken the necessary corporate action to authorize the Loan Agreement and to execute and deliver the Note, Security Agreement, Financing Statement, and Mortgage. Said instruments hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Loan Instruments.”
3. The Loan Instruments were all duly authorized, executed, and delivered and constitute the valid and legally binding obligation of the Borrower and collectively create and valid (first) lien upon or valid security interest in favor of the Lender, in the security covered thereby, and are enforceable in accordance with their terms except to the extent that the enforceability (but not the validity) thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors' rights.
4. The execution and delivery of the Loan Instruments and compliance with the provisions thereof under the circumstances contemplated thereby did not, do not and will not in any material respect conflict with, constitute default under, or contravene any contract or agreement or other instrument to which the Borrower is a party or any existing law, regulation, court order, or consent decree or device to which the Borrower is subject.
5. All applicable Federal, State and local tax returns and reports as required have been duly filed by Borrower and all Federal, State and local taxes, assessments and other governmental charges imposed upon Borrower or its respective assets, which are due and payable, have been paid.
6. The guaranty has been duly executed by the Guarantors and is a legal, valid and binding joint and several obligations of the Guarantors, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforceability (but not the validity) thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors' rights.
7. All necessary consents, approvals, or authorizations of any governmental agency or regulatory authority or of stockholders which are necessary have been obtained. The improvements and the use of the property comply in all respects with all Federal, State, and local laws applicable thereto.
8. (In cases involving subordinate or other than first lien position) That the mortgage/deed of trust on Borrower's real estate and (fixtures, e.g., machinery and equipment) and the security interest on (type of collateral, e.g., machinery and equipment, accounts, receivables and inventory) both given as security to the Lender for the Loan, will be subordinate to (first mortgagee) ________ given as security for a loan in the amount of $________ and the security interest in Borrower's (type of collateral, e.g., accounts inventory) ________ given to (secured creditor) ________ as security for a loan (state
type of loan, i.e., revolving line of credit, ________ if known) in the amount of $________.
9. That there are no liens, as of the date hereof, on record with respect to the property of Borrower other than those set forth above.
10. There are no actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of our knowledge, threatened before any court or administrative agency against Borrower which could materially adversely affect the financial condition and operations of Borrower.
11. Borrower has good and marketable title to the real estate security free and clear of all liens and encumbrances other than those set forth above. I/we have no knowledge of any defect in the title of the Borrower to the property described in the Loan Instruments.
12. Borrower is the absolute owner of all property given to secure the repayment of the loan, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, and security interests.
13. Duly executed and valid functioning statements have been filed in all offices in which it is necessary to file financing statements to fully perfect the security interests granted in the Loan Instruments.
14. Duly executed real estate mortgages/deeds of trust have been recorded in all offices in which it is necessary to record to fully perfect the security interests granted in the Loan Instruments.
15. (IN SOME OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES) The Indemnification Agreement has been duly executed by the Indemnitors and is a legal, valid and binding joint and several obligation of the Indemnitors, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that the enforceability (but not the validity) thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors' rights.
16. That the lease contains a valid and enforceable right of assignment and right of reassignment, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent the enforceability (but not the validity) thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors' rights.
17. The Lender's lien has been duly noted on all motor vehicle titles, stock certificates or other instruments where such notations are required for proper perfection of security interests therein.
18. That a valid pledge of the outstanding and unissued stock and/or shares of Borrower has been obtained and the Lender has a validly perfected and enforceable security interest in the shares/stock of Borrower, except to the extent the enforceability thereof may be limited by laws of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other laws generally affecting creditors rights.
[52 FR 6522, Mar. 4, 1987]
Pt. 1980, Subpt. E, App. I

# Appendix I to Subpart E of Part 1980—Instructions for Loan Guarantees for Drought and Disaster Relief
A.
In general.
Drought and Disaster (D
D) guaranteed loans are authorized by section 331 (“Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises”) of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1988, which provides for guarantees of up to 90 percent of the unpaid principal amount of qualifying loans. Interest and protective advances are not covered by the guarantee. Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loans may be either to assist in alleviating financial distress caused to rural business entities, directly or indirectly, by drought, hail, excessive moisture, or related conditions occurring in 1988, or to assist such entities that refinance or restructure debt as a result of losses incurred, directly or indirectly, because of such natural disasters. Where used in this appendix, the term “natural disaster(s)” refers only to drought, hail, excessive moisture, and related conditions occurring in 1988. All provisions of Subparts A and E of Part 1980 of this chapter apply to D
D loans, except as provided in this appendix. All forms used in connection with a D
D loan will be those used in connection with a B
I guaranteed loan, except for the following three forms that are incorporated in this Appendix I of this Subpart E, made a part hereof:
(1) Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1980-68, “Lender's Agreement—Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loans,” or successor form will be used instead of Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 449-35, “Lender's Agreement.”
(2) Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1980-69, “Loan Note Guarantee—Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loans,” or successor form will be used instead of Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 449-34, “Loan Note Guarantee.”
(3) Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1980-70, “Assignment Guarantee Agreement—Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loans,” or successor form will be used instead of Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 449-36, “Assignment Guarantee Agreement.”
B.
Loan purpose.
Except for §§ 1980.411(a)(11), 1980.412, and section C., below, loan procees may be used for purposes described in § 1980.411(a) if such use of loan proceeds will assist in alleviating financial distress caused, directly or indirectly, by drought, hail, excessive moisture, or related conditions which occurred in 1988. In lieu of the debt refinancing requirements in
§ 1980.411(a)(11), the following refinancing requirements apply to D
D loans. Loan proceeds to be used for refinancing must be used solely for refinancing or restructuring of debts as a result of losses incurred, directly or indirectly, as a result of drought, hail, excessive moisture, or related condition occurring in 1988, and such refinancing or restructuring of debt(s) must be essential for the borrower to meet its financial obligations in a timely fashion. In addition, D
D loan proceeds may be used for hotels, motels, tourist or recreation facilities which meet the eligibility requirements for D
D guaranteed loans.
C.
Ineligible loan purposes.
See § 1980.412. Except for hotels, motels, tourist and recreation facilities mentioned in section B of this appendix, purposes listed as ineligible B
I loan purposes are ineligible D
D loan purposes. In addition, D
D guaranteed loans may not be used for:
(1) Business expansion, acquisition of real estate, machinery, equipment, inventory, other goods or services, or for any other purpose unless related directly to the financial distress or loss that is the basis for the D
D guaranteed loan.
(2) Any eligible agricultural production purpose if annual tillage of the soil is involved.
(3) Refinancing or restructuring debt(s) which are or were in payment default more than 60 consecutive days during the 12 months preceding the date of the adverse financial effect of the natural disaster of 1988 upon the borrower.
D.
Transactions which will not be guaranteed.
In addition to transactions listed in § 1980.413, Rural Development will not guarantee:
(1) D
D guaranteed loan(s) to any borrower if the total cumulative principal amount of D
D guaranteed loan(s) to that borrower would exceed $500,000, or
(2) Any D
D guaranteed loan if the completed application is not received by Rural Developmenton or before September 30, 1991.
E.
Borrower equity requirements.
See § 1980.441. In lieu of the borrower equity requirements in § 1980.441, paragraphs (a) and (b), the following applies to D
D loans. Tangibles balance sheet equity must be positive when the Loan Note Guarantee is issued. Equity must be such that, when considered with other credit factors, repayment of the loan and the continued success of the business operation are reasonably assured. Requirements of § 1980.441(c) apply to D
D guaranteed loans.
F.
Filing and processing preapplications and applications.
See § 1980.451. All requirements of § 1980.451 remain in effect. But, in addition to the information required as part of a preapplication under § 1980.451(f), and unless previously submitted, as a part of an application under § 1980.451(i) evidence is required which demonstrates:
(1) The causal relationship between a 1988 natural disaster and the financial distress or loss upon which the preapplication or application is based; and,
(2) That the amount of the loan requested is not greater than the amount necessary for curing the problems caused by the natural disaster. Financial distress or loss shall be determined on the basis of a comparison of financial data for comparable periods of time and need not necessarily be based on data at the year's end. Evidence submitted may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) Evidence of financial loss or distress (including loss or distress caused by business interruption) resulting from physical damage caused by natural disaster, or
(b) Evidence that the financial loss and/or distress of the business is the direct or indirect result of loss of sales, business interruption, loss of markets, shortage of raw materials, or decline in patronage or customers caused by a natural disaster. It must be shown that business operations were damaged as a result of such natural disaster.
G.
Loan guarantee limit.
See § 1980.20 of Subpart A. The maximum loss covered by the Loan Note Guarantee, Form FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 1980-69, can never exceed the percentage of guarantee multiplied by the unpaid principal amount of the loan as evidenced by the note(s) or by assumption agreement(s). Interest, capitalized interest, and protective advances are not covered by the guarantee of a D
D loan.
H.
Percentage of guarantee.
See § 1980.420. The maximum percentage of guarantee on a D
D loan is 90 percent of the unpaid principal.
I.
Lender's existing unguaranteed exposure.
The provisions of § 1980.452 Administrative C. 1(d) do not apply.
J.
No direct or “insured” loans.
Sections 1980.423(b), 1980.488(b), 1980.481, 1980.411(b), and other provisions of this subpart dealing with “insured” or direct loans do not apply to D
D loans. All D
D loans are Rural Development guaranteed loans. Rural Development has no authority to make D
D loans directly to borrowers.
[54 FR 5, Jan. 3, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 14792, Apr. 13, 1989; 54 FR 26946, June 27, 1989; 80 FR 9911, Feb. 24, 2015]
Appendix J to Subpart E of Part 1980 [Reserved]
Pt. 1980, Subpt. E, App. K

# Appendix K to Subpart E of Part 1980—Regulations for Loan Guarantees for Disaster Assistance For Rural Business Enterprises

# A. In general
Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises (DARBE) guaranteed loans are authorized by Section 401 of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1989, which provides for guarantees of up to 90 percent of the unpaid principal and interest amount of qualifying loans, or $2,500,000 whichever is less, to any one borrower. DARBE guaranteed loans may be either to assist in alleviating financial distress caused to rural business entities, directly or indirectly, by drought, freeze, storm, excessive moisture, earthquake, or related conditions occurring in 1988 or 1989, or to assist such entities that refinance or restructure debt as a result of losses incurred, directly or indirectly, because of such natural disasters. Where used in this appendix, the term “natural disaster(s)” refers only to drought, freeze, storm, excessive moisture, earthquake, and related conditions occurring in 1988 or 1989. All provisions of subparts A and E of part 1980 of this chapter apply to DARBE loans, except as provided in this appendix. All forms used in connection with a DARBE loan will be those used in connection with a Business and Industrial (B
I) guaranteed loan, except for the following three forms that are incorporated in this appendix K of this subpart E, made a part hereof:
(1) Form RD 1980-71, “Lender's Agreement—Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprise Guaranteed Loans,” or successor form will be used instead of Form RD 449-35, “Lender's Agreement.”
(2) Form RD 1980-72, “Loan Note Guarantee—Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprise Guaranteed Loans,” or successor form will be used instead of Form RD 449-34, “Loan Note Guarantee.”
(3) Form RD 1980-73, “Assignment Guarantee Agreement—Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprise Guaranteed Loans,” or successor form will be used instead of Form RD 449-36, “Assignment Guarantee Agreement.”

# B. Loan purposes
Loan proceeds may be used for purposes described in § 1980.411(a), except in lieu of the debt refinancing requirements in § 1980.411(a)(11), the following refinancing requirements apply to DARBE loans. Loan proceeds to be used for refinancing must be used solely for refinancing or restructuring of debts as a result of losses incurred, directly or indirectly, as a result of drought, freeze, storm, excessive moisture, earthquake, or related conditions occurring in 1988 or 1989, and such refinancing or restructuring of debt(s) must be essential for the borrower to meet its financial obligations in a timely fashion. DARBE loan proceeds may be used for hotels, motels, tourist, or recreation facilities which meet the eligibility requirements of DARBE guaranteed loans in addition to the eligible loan purposes as stated in RD Instruction 1980-E. In addition, DARBE loan proceeds may be used for business enterprises engaged in agricultural production (production agriculture) which means the cultivation, production (growing), and harvesting, either directly or through integrated operations, of agricultural products (crops, animals, birds, and marine life, either for fibers or food for human consumption), and disposal or marketing thereof, the raising, housing, feeding (including commercial custom feedlots), breeding, hatching, control and/or management of farm and domestic animals. Other eligible uses of loan proceeds under agricultural production include:
(1) Commercial nurseries primarily engaged in the production of ornamental plants and trees and other nursery products such as bulbs, florists' greens, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of vegetables from seed to the transplant stage.
(2) Forestry which includes establishments primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, and related activities such as reforestation.
(3) Loans for livestock and poultry processing as identified under eligible purposes.
(4) The growing of mushrooms or hydroponics.
In addition, those business enterprises which qualify for assistance as agricultural production must be ineligible entities for FmHA or its successor agency under Public Law 103-354 farmer program loans because the entity exceeds the definition of a family-size farm as defined by RD Instruction 1941-A, § 1941.4(d).

# C. Ineligible loan purposes
RD Instruction 1980-E, § 1980.412 are ineligible purposes for DARBE guaranteed loans except for hotels, motels, tourist, recreation facilities and agricultural production (production agriculture) as defined in § 1980.412(e), DARBE guaranteed loans may not be used for:
(1) Business expansion, acquisition of real estate, machinery, equipment, inventory, other goods or services, or for any other purpose unless related directly to the financial distress or loss that is the basis for the DARBE guaranteed loan.
(2) Alleviating financial distress of entities engaged in agricultural production that are eligible for other Rural Development -type farm loan programs.

# D. Transactions which will not be guaranteed
In addition to transactions listed in RD Instruction 1980-E, § 1980.413, except for § 1980.413(a)(3), Rural Development will not make DARBE guaranteed loans if the completed application is not received by Rural Development on or before September 30, 1991, nor will Rural Development make subsequent DARBE guarantee loans.

# E. Borrower equity requirements
See RD Instruction 1980-E, § 1980.441. In lieu of the borrower equity requirements in § 1980.441, paragraphs (a) and (b), the following applies to DARBE loans. Tangible balance sheet equity must be positive when the Loan Note Guarantee is issued. Equity must be such that, when considered with other credit factors, repayment of the loan and the continued success of the business operation are reasonably assured. Requirements of § 1980.441(c) apply to DARBE guaranteed loans.

# F. Filing and processing preapplications and applications
See RD Instruction 1980-E, § 1980.451. All requirements of § 1980.451 remain in effect. In addition to the information required as part of a preapplication under § 1980.451(f), and unless previously submitted as a part of an application under § 1980.451(i) evidence is required which demonstrates to Rural Development 's satisfaction:
(1) The causal relationship between a 1988 or 1989 natural disaster and the financial distress or loss upon which the preapplication or application is based; and,
(2) That the amount of the loan requested is not greater than the amount necessary for curing the problems caused by the natural disaster. Financial distress or loss shall be determined on the basis of a comparison of financial data for comparable periods of time and need not necessarily be based on data at the year's end. Evidence submitted may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) Evidence of financial loss or distress (including loss or distress caused by business interruption) resulting from physical damage caused by natural disaster, or
(b) Evidence that the financial loss and/or distress of the business is the direct or indirect result of loss of sales, business interruption, loss of markets, shortage of raw materials, or decline in patronage or customers caused by a nautral disaster. It must be shown that business operations were damaged as a result of such natural disaster.
(3) Evidence of compliance with Sodbuster and Swampbuster requirements as referenced in paragraph K below.
G. Loan guarantee limit.
The total principal amount of DARBE guaranteed loans to any one borrower cannot exceed $10,000,000. The maximum loss covered by Form RD 1980-72, “Loan Note Guarantee DARBE,” (or successor form) issued on any one borrower can never exceed the percentage of guarantee multiplied by the unpaid principal and accrued interest on the loan as evidenced by the note(s) or by assumption agreement(s), and protective advances, or $2,500,000, whichever is the lesser amount.
H. Percentage of guarantee.
The provisions of RD instruction 1980-E, § 1980.420 will not apply to DARBE. For loans in excess of $2,000,000, the percentage of guarantee will be calculated so that the guaranteed portion of the principal amount of the loan cannot exceed $2,000,000. For loans of $2,000,000 or less the maximum percentage of guarantee will be 90 percent. For example, a loan of $10,000,000 would not exceed a 20 percent guarantee; a $5,000,000 loan would not exceed a 40 percent guarantee.

# I. Lender's existing unguaranteed exposure
The provisions of § 1980.452 ADMINISTRATIVE C. 1(d) do not apply.

# J. No direct or insured loans
RD Instruction 1980-E, §§ 1980.423(b), 1980.488(b), 1980.481, 1980.411(b), and other provisions of this subpart dealing with insured or direct loans do not apply to DARBE loans. All DARBE loans are Rural Development guaranteed loans. Rural Development has no authority to make DARBE loans directly to borrowers.

# K. Sodbuster and Swampbuster requirements
The provisions of 7 CFR part 1970 will apply to loans made to rural business enterprises engaged in agricultural production.
[54 FR 42483, Oct. 17, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 137, Jan. 3, 1990; 55 FR 19245, May 8, 1990; 80 FR 9911, Feb. 24, 2015; 81 FR 11048, Mar. 2, 2016]
Pt. 1980, Subpt. E, Exh. G

# Exhibit G to Subpart E of Part 1980

# Note:
The Exhibit is not published in the Code of Federal Regulations. It is available in any Rural Development office.
[54 FR 1599, Jan. 13, 1989, as amended at 80 FR 9911, Feb. 24, 2015]
Subparts F-I [Reserved]

# Subpart K—Strategic Economic and Community Development

# Source:
80 FR 28816, May 20, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1980.1001
Purpose.
Projects that support the implementation of Strategic Community Investment Plans may receive priority funding from authorized programs found in § 1980.1002. The purpose of this subpart is to describe the process by which applications will be reviewed and selected to receive priority funding.
[85 FR 59393, Sept. 22, 2020]
§ 1980.1002
Programs.
The Agency may elect to reserve funds from one or more programs for projects that support Strategic Community Investment Plans. The programs chosen for a given fiscal year will be announced annually in a notice published in the
Federal Register.
The authorized programs are:
(a) Community Facility Loans (7 CFR part 1942, subpart A).
(b) Community Facilities Grant Program (7 CFR part 3570, subpart B).
(c) Community Programs Guaranteed Loans (7 CFR part 3575, subpart A).
(d) Water and Waste Disposal Programs Guaranteed Loans (7 CFR part 1779).
(e) Water and Waste Loans and Grants (7 CFR part 1780, subparts A, B, C, and D).
(f) Business and Industry Guaranteed Loans (7 CFR part 4279, subparts A and B; 7 CFR part 4287, subpart B).
(g) Rural Business Development Grants (7 CFR part 4280, subpart E).
(h) Community Connect Grant (7 CFR part 1739).
(i) Rural Community Development Initiative Grant (2 CFR part 200).
(j) Tribal College Initiative Grants (7 CFR part 3570, subpart B).
(k) Intermediary Relending Program (7 CFR part 4274).
(l) Mutual Self-Help Housing Technical Assistance Grants (7 CFR part 1944, subpart I).
(m) Rural Housing Site Loans (7 CFR part 1822, subpart G).
(n) Housing Preservation Grants (7 CFR part 1994, subpart N; 7 CFR part 1970, subparts A and O).
(o) Farm Labor Housing Direct Loans and Grants (7 CFR part 3560, subparts L and M).
(p) Multi-Family Housing Loan Guarantees (7 CFR part 3565).
(q) Distance Learning and Telemedicine Loans and Grants (7 CFR part 1734).
(r) Rural Energy for America Program (7 CFR part 4280, subpart B).
(s) Rural Economic Development Loans and Grants (7 CFR part 4280).
(t) Rural Energy Savings Program (7 U.S.C. 8107a).
(u) Value-Added Producer Grants (7 U.S.C. 1632a).
(v) Household Water Well System Grant Program (7 CFR part 1776).
(w) Solid Waste Management Grant (7 CFR part 1775, subpart D).
[85 FR 59393, Sept. 22, 2020]
§ 1980.1003
Applicability of Program Regulations.
Except as supplemented by this subpart, the provisions of the programs identified in § 1980.1002 are incorporated into this subpart.
§ 1980.1004
Funding.
Unless the Agency publishes a notice that indicates otherwise, the Agency will reserve funds according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for each of the programs identified in § 1980.1002 each fiscal year.
(a)
Individual program basis.
The Agency will reserve funds on an individual program basis.
(b)
Percentage of funds.
The Agency will reserve up to 15 percent of the funds made available in a fiscal year to each program identified in § 1980.1002. The percentage of funds to be set aside will be published in a notice in the
Federal Register
on an annual basis. The Agency may reserve the same or different percentages for each program in a single fiscal year.
(c)
Unobligated funds.
In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2008v, all Strategic Economic and Community Development (SECD) reserved funds will be reserved for the 1-year period beginning on the date on which the funds were first made available. The Agency has determined that for both non-annual and annually appropriated programs, SECD reserved funding will be available for obligation until dates established by covered programs as specified in a
SECD annual
Federal Register
publication. Reserved funds in annual programs not obligated by September 30 will be reconciled according to applicable law.
[80 FR 28816, May 20, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 59393, Sept. 22, 2020]
§ 1980.1005
Definitions.
In addition to the definitions found in the regulations for the programs identified in § 1980.1002, the following definitions apply to this subpart. If the same term is defined in any of the regulations for the programs identified in § 1980.1002, for purposes of this subpart, that term will have the meaning identified in this subpart.
Adopted
means appropriate entity has, or entities have, officially approved the plan for implementation. The appropriate entity or entities will vary among plans and may be, for example, a governing body or planning board.
Agency
means the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, the Rural Housing Service, or the Rural Utilities Service, or their successor agencies.
Carried out in a rural area
means either:
(1) The entire project is physically located in a rural area; or
(2) The beneficiaries of the service(s) provided through the project must either reside in a rural area (in the case of individuals) or be located in a rural area (in the case of entities).
Investment
means either monetary or non-monetary contributions to the implementation of the Plan's objectives.
Jurisdiction
means a unit of government or other entity with similar powers, such as a city, county, district, special purpose district, township, town, borough, parish, village, state, Indian tribe, etc.
Multi-jurisdictional
means more than one jurisdiction.
Multi-sectoral
means intentional collaboration between two or more sectors (
i.e.,
utility, health, housing, community services, etc.) to accomplish goals and achieve outcomes in communities and regions.
Philanthropic organization
means an entity whose mission is to provide monetary, technical assistance, or other items of value for religious, charitable, community development, scientific, literary, or educational purposes.
Plan
means a Strategic Community Investment Plan illustrating:
(1) A variety of activities designed to facilitate the vision of a rural community for the future including considerations for improving and expanding broadband services as needed;
(2) Participation by multiple stakeholders, including local and regional partners;
(3) Leverage of applicable regional resources;
(4) Investment from strategic partners, such as private organizations, cooperatives, other government entities, Indian tribes, and philanthropic organizations;
(5) Clear objectives with the ability to establish measurable performance metrics;
(6) Action steps for implementation; and
(7) Any other elements necessary to ensure that the plan results in a comprehensive and strategic approach to rural economic development, as determined by the Secretary.
Project
means the eligible proposed use(s) for which funds are requested as described in the application material submitted to the Agency for funding under the programs listed in § 1980.1002.
Sector
means stakeholders from areas such as business, health, education, and/or workforce; or from organization types such as public, private, non-profit, and/or philanthropy.
Stakeholder
means an individual, group or organization with an interest in, or affected by, the plan.
Strategic partner
means entities such as private organizations, cooperatives, other government entities, Indian Tribes, and philanthropic organizations.
[80 FR 28816, May 20, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 59394, Sept. 22, 2020]
§§ 1980.1006-1980.1009
[Reserved]
§ 1980.1010
Project eligibility.
In order to be eligible to receive funds under this subpart, the Project must meet the following:
(a) The Project must meet the Project eligibility criteria of the applicable program identified in § 1980.1002;
(b) The Project must be carried out in a rural area; and
(c) The Project must support the implementation of a Strategic Community Investment Plans on a multi-jurisdictional and multi-sectoral basis.
[80 FR 28816, May 20, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 59394, Sept. 22, 2020]
§§ 1980.1011-1980.1014
[Reserved]
§ 1980.1015
Applications.
In addition to the application material specific to the applicable program identified in § 1980.1002, each applicant seeking funding under this subpart must provide the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.
(a) A Strategic Economic and Community Development application form (Form RD 1980-88);
(b) A description of the jurisdiction or jurisdictions in which the Plan is to be implemented;
(c) Documentation that the Plan was developed through the collaboration of multiple stakeholders in the jurisdiction of the Plan, including the participation of combinations of stakeholders;
(d) Documentation that the Plan demonstrates leveraging of the applicable region's assets to support the Plan;
(e) Documentation indicating whether or not the Plan includes monetary or non-monetary contributions from strategic partners; and
(f) Documentation that the Plan contains:
(1) Clear, measurable performance objectives with action steps for implementation; and
(2) The ability to track progress toward meeting the Plan's objectives.
[85 FR 59394, Sept. 22, 2020]
§§ 1980.1016-1980.1019
[Reserved]
§ 1980.1020
Scoring.
The Agency will score each eligible application seeking funding under this subpart as described in this section.
(a)
Program scoring.
The Agency will score each application using the criteria for the applicable covered program, identified in § 1980.1002. The maximum number of points an application can receive under this paragraph (a) is based on the scoring criteria for the applicable program identified in § 1980.1002, including any discretionary points that may be awarded.
(b)
SECD scoring.
The Agency will score each application using the criteria identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. The maximum number of points an application can receive under this paragraph (b) is 20 points.
(1)
Objectives of the plan.
The Agency will score how the project supports achieving the objectives of a plan which are identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii). Applicants must supply sufficient documentation that demonstrates to the Agency the criteria identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section are met. The maximum score under this paragraph (b)(1) is 10 points.
(i) If the project directly supports implementation of three or more of the plan's objectives, the application will receive 10 points.
(ii) If the project directly supports implementation of two of the plan's objectives, the application will receive 5 points.
(iii) If the project directly supports implementation of less than two of the plan's objectives, the application will receive no points.
(2)
Characteristics of a plan.
The Agency will score the plan associated with a Project based upon the characteristics of the plan, which are identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. Applicants must supply sufficient documentation that demonstrates to the Agency the criteria identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section are met. The maximum score under this paragraph (b)(2) is 10 points.
(i)
Variety of activities.
If the plan contains a variety of activities which clearly show facilitation toward achieving the vision for the rural communities and/or region as expressed in the plan, two points will be awarded.
(ii)
Regional resources leverage.
If the plan demonstrates an understanding of the applicable regional asset resources and indicates leveraging of those resources to support the plan, including cultural resources, natural resources,
human resources, infrastructure, and financial resources, two points will be awarded.
(iii)
Strategic partner investments.
If the Plan includes investments from strategic partners other than the U.S. Department of Agriculture, two points will be awarded.
(iv)
Participation by multiple stakeholders.
If the plan provides evidence of the involvement of multiple stakeholders from multiple jurisdictions and representing multiple sectors in the preparation, implementation, monitoring and/or evaluation of the plan, Rural Development (RD) will award two points.
(v)
Objectives, performance measures, and action steps.
If the plan contains clear, measurable objectives, the ability to track progress toward meeting the objectives and identifiable action steps for implementation, two points will be awarded.
(c)
Total score.
The Agency will sum the scores each application receives under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in order to rank applications.
[80 FR 28816, May 20, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 59394, Sept. 22, 2020]
§§ 1980.1021-1980.1024
[Reserved]
§ 1980.1025
Award process.
(a) Unless RD indicates otherwise in a notice, the award process for the applicable program identified in § 1980.1002 will be used to determine which Projects receive funding under this subpart.
(b) Projects not receiving funding under this subpart are eligible to compete for funding under the applicable program identified in § 1980.1002. The scores for such Projects when competing for program funding will not include the score assigned to the application under § 1980.1020(b).
[85 FR 59395, Sept. 22, 2020]
§§ 1980.1026-1980.1100
[Reserved]
Subpart L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Special Authority To Enable Funding of Broadband and Smart Utility Facilities Across Select Rural Development Programs

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1981(e) and 7 U.S.C. 908.

# Source:
85 FR 57082, Sept. 15, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1980.1201
Purpose.
This subpart establishes policies and procedures for the review, approval and servicing of projects authorized to use funding for broadband and smart utility facilities (Special Broadband Authority) in select Rural Development programs. This special broadband authority will leverage the federal resources available for the deployment broadband services in rural areas. The Secretary has discretion to allow recipients of RD grants, loans, or loan guarantees to use a limited amount of funds for broadband purposes.
§ 1980.1202
Special broadband and smart utility facility funding.
(a) The Secretary, acting directly or through authority delegated to the RD agency heads, may allow a recipient of an RD grant, loan, or loan guarantee to use up to 10 percent of project funds for any purpose outlined in § 1980.1205 and in compliance with this part.
(b) Prior to exercising authority under this part, the Agency with a request for special broadband authority (the Awarding Agency) shall consult with the Administrator of the affected RD Agency to determine:
(1) If the provision of broadband service by the recipient (or another party under a wholesale broadband service agreement) would cause competitive harm to a current Rural Development borrower, grantee, or guaranteed lender with respect to an active project for broadband deployment and provision of services With respect to a current RD awardee in the project service area that has significantly defaulted on, or not material complied with its award requirements, the affected RD agency may make a finding of no competitive harm unless it is necessary to protect the government's interest;
(2) If the recipient intends to use the funds for the provision of retail broadband service and, if so, assist the agency in providing public notice and receiving responses from existing service providers, as provided in this rule, so that a determination can be made as to whether the minimum acceptable level of broadband service exists in the service area at the time of the request; and
(3) If the recipient does not intend to provide broadband service, and the funded facilities will only be used for internal use, such as smart utility, there shall be no finding of competitive harm and the recipient shall be relieved of the public notice provision requirement of § 1980.1207 and reporting requirements of § 1980.1209. Note that recipients funding broadband facilities for internal use under an RD program's existing authority would not be subject to this part with respect to the 10 percent funding limitation; however, if such facilities are contemplated to provide retail broadband service in the future, the public notice requirements of § 1980.1206(b) and (c) will apply.
§ 1980.1203
Definitions.
Agency.
One of the three Rural Development agencies, the Rural Housing Service, the Rural Business-Cooperative Service or the Rural Utilities Service.
Agency head.
The Administrator of the applicable RD agency.
Awarding Agency.
An agency which has received an application for special broadband authority or has approved an application for such authority.
Broadband service.
Any technology identified by the Secretary as having the capacity to provide transmission facilities that enable a subscriber to originate and receive voice, data, graphics, and video.
Con Act.
The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act of 1972, as codified and amended at 7 U.S.C. 1921
et seq.
Minimum acceptable level of broadband service.
The minimum transmission capacity with respect to terrestrial service that will qualify as broadband service, as published by the RUS in the
Federal Register
pursuant to 7 CFR part 1738. If a new minimum transmission capacity is published in the
Federal Register
while a request for smart utility authority is pending, broadband service for the purpose of reviewing the request will be defined by the minimum transmission capacity that was in effect at the time the request was received by the Agency.
Rural Development (RD).
A mission area of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) made up of the Rural Housing Service (RHS), Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS) and the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
Retail broadband service.
For the purposes of this subpart, retail broadband service means any broadband service that is provided to the public at a charge. Broadband Service which is used exclusively by the recipient for its own purposes and is not sold to the public is not retail broadband. Broadband service which is sold to other service providers through wholesale agreements shall also not be considered retail broadband service.
RE Act.
The Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as codified and amended at 7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Agriculture.
Special broadband authority.
Approval by an RD program to use up to 10 percent of the proceeds of an RD loan, grant, or loan guarantee for the purposes of constructing, improving, or acquiring broadband facilities and equipment in rural areas, whether or not retail or wholesale broadband service will be provided.
Smart utility.
The use of broadband facilities and equipment that is only available internally by a recipient during the economic life of the assets financed by an RD loan, grant, or loan guarantee.
§ 1980.1204
Eligibility.
Programs eligible to be considered for smart utility and broadband service authority include RD programs under the Rural Electrification Act and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act. Programs included, but not limited to, are as follows:
(a) 7 CFR part 1710—General and Pre-Loan Policies and Procedures Common to Electric Loans and Guarantees;
(b) 7 CFR part 1779—Water and Waste Disposal Programs Guaranteed Loans;
(c) 7 CFR part 1780—Water and Waste Loans and Grants;
(d) 7 CFR part 1783—Revolving Funds for Financing Water and Wastewater Projects (Revolving Fund Program);
(e) 7 CFR part 1942, subpart A—Community Facility Loans;
(f) 7 CFR part 3575, subpart A—Community Programs Guaranteed Loans;
(g) 7 CFR part 3560—Direct Multi-Family Housing Loans and Grants;
(h) 7 CFR part 3565—Guaranteed Rural Rental Housing Program;
(i) 7 CFR part 3570, subpart B—Community Facilities Grant Program;
(j) 7 CFR part 4274, subpart D—Intermediary Relending Program (IRP);
(k) 7 CFR part 4279, subpart B—Business and Industry Loans;
(l) 7 CFR part 4279, subpart C—Biorefinery, Renewable Chemical and Biobased Product Manufacturing Assistance Loans;
(m) 7 CFR, part 4280, subpart A—Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Programs;
(n) 7 CFR part 4280, subpart B—Rural Energy for American Program; and
(o) 7 CFR part 4280, subpart E—Rural Business Development Grants.
§ 1980.1205
Eligible purposes.
Recipients may use funds for the costs of the construction, improvement, and acquisition of broadband facilities and equipment in rural areas, as set forth in this part. Rural area shall be defined by the applicable program regulations.
§ 1980.1206
Application process and public notice requirement.
(a)
Initial notification to agency for all programs.
Applicants seeking to use program funds for eligible purposes under § 1980.1205 must inform the RD agency at the time of application, except for Smart Grid loans authorized under the RE Act and 7 CFR part 1710. This is to determine that sufficient funding is available in the applicable program to consider funding this special broadband authority in addition to the underlying RD project.
(b)
Notice for retail broadband.
All applicants that use special broadband authority to provide retail broadband service must provide the following information, which will be posted publicly on RUS' fully searchable website, in addition to the identity of the applicant and the status of the application:
(1) A description of the proposed retail broadband project;
(2) A map of the proposed service area to be funded under smart utility authority of the applicant;
(3) The amount and type of support requested by the applicant;
(4) The estimated number and proportion of service points in the proposed service territory without fixed broadband service, whether terrestrial or wireless; and
(5) Any other information required of the applicant in a funding notice.
(c)
Information available to the public for approved applications.
For applications that are approved for the provision of retail broadband service under the special broadband authority, the following information will be made available to the public:
(1) The information provided in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Each annual report required under § 1980.1209, which will be redacted to protect any proprietary information; and
(3) Such other information as the Administrator of the RUS deems sufficient to allow the public to understand the assistance provided.
(d)
Alternative methods of public notice.
The Administrator of the RUS will provide instructions on the RUS website for alternative methods of public notice and responses by existing service providers related to projects seeking funding under the special broadband authority where the Administrator determines that existing procedures and systems used by applicants to RUS' broadband programs would be impracticable, costly, or impose excessive delay.
(e)
Additional requirements for guarantees, intermediaries and revolving loan programs.
In addition to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, participants and recipients of funds from eligible RD guarantee, intermediary, and revolving loan programs set forth in § 1980.1204 shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1) No funds may be issued by program participants to recipients for special broadband authority without written approval from the Awarding Agency.
(2) Recipients must apply for special broadband authority on a project-by-project basis through program participants. Program participants shall serve as the applicant to the Awarding Agency and shall be responsible for ensuring that the public notice, reporting and other requirements of this part are contained in applicable agreements between the participant and the recipient.
§ 1980.1207
Approval to provide retail broadband service.
(a)
Service area assessment.
For applicants requesting to provide retail broadband service under the special broadband authority, applications must be posted publicly for 45 days.
(1) During the public notice period, service providers may voluntarily submit information required by the RUS Administrator onto the agency's mapping tool, or alternate methods if determined by the RUS Administrator under § 1980.1206(d). Information submitted by service providers shall be exempt from disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(2)(B).552.
(2) If no broadband service provider submits information under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the agency shall consider the number of providers in the proposed service area to be established by using any other data regarding the availability of broadband service that the RUS may collect or obtain through reasonable efforts.
(b)
Use of funds.
After review of information submitted from service providers, if any, and all available data on broadband availability, if the RUS determines that the minimum acceptable level of broadband service is available in the proposed retail service area, the Awarding Agency shall not approve the use of funds for such purpose. The Awarding Agency, however, may approve the use of funds for retail broadband service if:
(1) Areas with the minimum acceptable level of broadband service are eliminated from the proposed service area; and
(2) The applicant covenants that it will not provide service in these areas with funds from the Awarding Agency.
(c)
Use of Funds for wholesale broadband service.
For applicants requesting that funds be used for wholesale broadband service, the applicant must agree:
(1) To publicly advertise in the service area that broadband service is available at wholesale to any service provider; and
(2) That the same wholesale contract will be used for all service providers requesting wholesale service and offered at the same per unit price.
§ 1980.1208
Award procedures and compliance.
(a) The Awarding Agency will inform applicants seeking consideration of funding under this part of the agency's disposition of the applicant's request;
(b) Except as provided in § 1980.1206(e), awards made under this part shall be managed and serviced by the Awarding Agency;
(c) Except as provided in § 1980.1206(e), the Agency shall be responsible for oversight and compliance of projects utilizing authority under this part;
(d) Requirements for providing retail broadband service or wholesale broadband service under §§ 1980.1206, 1980.1207, and this section shall be made part of the applicable loan or grant agreement between the recipient and the Awarding Agency, or, with respect to guarantees and intermediaries, between the program participants and the recipients;
(e) The applicable agreement must provide that non-compliance with this part or use of funds for retail broadband service or wholesale broadband service without having received agency authority to do so as required in this part, shall:
(1) Be an automatic event of default under the applicable agreement; and
(2) Require that the associated loan or grant funds used in violation of this part be disallowed or returned immediately to the awarding agency or to the program participant for eligible relending.
§ 1980.1209
Reporting.
For three years starting the first January 31st after completion of the broadband project, recipients of funds used for retail broadband service under this part must submit the following information each year utilizing RUS' online reporting system:
(a) Existing network service improvements and facility upgrades, as well as new equipment and capacity enhancements that support high-speed broadband access for educational institutions, health care providers, and public safety service providers;
(b) The estimated number of end users who are currently using or forecast to use the new or upgraded infrastructure;
(c) The progress towards fulfilling the objectives for which the assistance was granted;
(d) The number and geospatial location of residences and businesses that will receive new broadband service;
(e) The speed and price of the Recipient's broadband service offerings; and
(f) The average price of broadband service in the project's service area.
§ 1980.1210
OMB Control Number.
The information collection requirements in this part are approved by the Office of Management and Budget and assigned OMB control number 0572-0156.
PARTS 1981-1999 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
7 CFR (1-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
7 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XVIII
1951 Policy statement
22009
1951 Technical correction
30835
1951.101—1951.150 (Subpart C) Removed
36714
1956.51 Amended
36714
1956.101 Amended
36714
1980.1001 Revised
59393
1980.1002 Revised
59393
1980.1004 (b) and (c) revised
59393
1980.1005 Amended
59394
1980.1010 (b) and (c) revised
59394
1980.1015 Revised
59394
1980.1020 (a) and (b) revised
59394
1980.1025 Revised
59395
1980.1026 Removed
59395
1980.1201—1980.1210 (Subpart M) Added
57082
2021
(No regulations published)
2022
7 CFR
87 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter XVIII
1980.405 Introductory text revised
38643
2022-2023
(No regulations published)
2024
7 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter XVIII
1955.118 (b)(2), (6), (8)(iii), and (11) revised; eff. 1-30-25
106980
○
