(vii) A determination that the day care home has been convicted of any activity that occurred during the past seven years and that indicated a lack of business integrity. A lack of business integrity includes fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, obstruction of justice, or any other activity indicating a lack of business integrity as defined by the State agency, or the concealment of such a conviction;
(viii) Failure to participate in training; or
(ix) Any other circumstance related to non-performance under the sponsoring organization-day care home agreement, as specified by the sponsoring organization or the State agency.
(3)
Serious deficiency notification procedures.
If the sponsoring organization determines that a day care home has committed one or more serious deficiency listed in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, the sponsoring organization must use the following procedures to provide the day care home notice of the serious deficiency(ies) and offer it an opportunity to take corrective action. However, if the serious deficiency(ies) constitutes an imminent threat to the health or safety of participants, or the day care home has engaged in activities that threaten the public health or safety, the sponsoring organization must follow the procedures in paragraph (l)(4) of this section instead of those in this paragraph (l)(3).
(i)
Notice of serious deficiency.
The sponsoring organization must notify the day care home that it has been found to be seriously deficient. The sponsoring organization must provide a copy of the serious deficiency notice to the State agency. The notice must specify:
(A) The serious deficiency(ies);
(B) The actions to be taken by the day care home to correct the serious deficiency(ies);
(C) The time allotted to correct the serious deficiency(ies) (as soon as possible, but not to exceed 30 days);
(D) That the serious deficiency determination is not subject to administrative review.
(E) That failure to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time will result in the sponsoring organization proposed termination of the day care home's agreement and the proposed disqualification of the day care home and its principals; and
(F) That the day care home's voluntary termination of its agreement with the sponsoring organization after having been notified that it is seriously deficient will still result in the day care home's formal termination by the sponsoring organization and placement of the day care home and its principals on the National disqualified list.
(ii)
Successful corrective action.
If the day care home corrects the serious deficiency(ies) within the allotted time and to the sponsoring organization's satisfaction, the sponsoring organization must notify the day care home that it has temporarily defer its determination of serious deficiency. The sponsoring organization must also provide a copy of the notice to the State agency. However, if the sponsoring organization accepts the provider's corrective action, but later determines that the corrective action was not permanent or complete, the sponsoring organization must then propose to terminate the provider's Program agreement and disqualify the provider, as set forth in paragraph (l)(3)(iii) of this section.
(iii)
Proposed termination of agreement and proposed disqualification.
If timely corrective action is not taken to fully and permanently correct the serious deficiency(ies) cited, the sponsoring organization must issue a notice proposing to terminate the day care home's agreement for cause. The notice must explain the day care home's opportunity for an administrative review of the proposed termination in accordance with § 226.6(l). The sponsoring organization must provide a copy of the notice to the State agency. The notice must:
(A) Inform the day care home that it may continue to participate and receive Program reimbursement for eligible meals served until its administrative review is concluded;
(B) Inform the day care home that termination of the day care home's agreement will result in the day care home's termination for cause and disqualification; and
(C) State that if the day care home seeks to voluntarily terminate its agreement after receiving the notice of intent to terminate, the day care home will still be placed on the National disqualified list.
(iv)
Program payments.
The sponsoring organization must continue to pay any claims for reimbursement for eligible meals served until the serious deficiency(ies) is corrected or the day care home's agreement is terminated, including the period of any administrative review.
(v)
Agreement termination and disqualification.
The sponsoring organization must immediately terminate the day care home's agreement and disqualify the day care home when the administrative review official upholds the sponsoring organization's proposed termination and proposed disqualification, or when the day care home's opportunity to request an administrative review expires. At the same time the notice is issued, the sponsoring organization must provide a copy of the termination and disqualification letter to the State agency.
(4)
Suspension of participation for day care homes.
(i)
General.
If State or local health or licensing officials have cited a day care home for serious health or safety violations, the sponsoring organization must immediately suspend the home's CACFP participation prior to any formal action to revoke the home's licensure or approval. If the sponsoring organization determines that there is an imminent threat to the health or safety of participants at a day care home, or that the day care home has engaged in activities that threaten the public health or safety, and the licensing agency cannot make an immediate onsite visit, the sponsoring organization must immediately notify the appropriate State or local licensing and health authorities and take action that is consistent with the recommendations and requirements of those authorities. An imminent threat to the health or safety of participants and engaging in activities that threaten the public health or safety constitute serious deficiencies; however, the sponsoring organization must use the procedures in this paragraph (l)(4) (and not the procedures in paragraph (l)(3) of this section) to provide the day care home notice of the suspension of participation, serious deficiency, and proposed termination of the day care home's agreement.
(ii)
Notice of suspension, serious deficiency, and proposed termination.
The sponsoring organization must notify the day care home that its participation has been suspended, that the day care home has been determined seriously deficient, and that the sponsoring organization proposes to terminate the day care home's agreement for cause, and must provide a copy of the notice to the State agency. The notice must:
(A) Specify the serious deficiency(ies) found and the day care home's opportunity for an administrative review of the proposed termination in accordance with § 226.6(l);
(B) State that participation (including all Program payments) will remain suspended until the administrative review is concluded;
(C) Inform the day care home that if the administrative review official overturns the suspension, the day care home may claim reimbursement for eligible meals served during the suspension;
(D) Inform the day care home that termination of the day care home's agreement will result in the placement of the day care home on the National disqualified list; and
(E) State that if the day care home seeks to voluntarily terminate its agreement after receiving the notice of proposed termination, the day care home will still be terminated for cause and disqualified.
(iii)
Agreement termination and disqualification.
The sponsoring organization must immediately terminate the
day care home's agreement and disqualify the day care home when the administrative review official upholds the sponsoring organization's proposed termination, or when the day care home's opportunity to request an administrative review expires.
(iv)
Program payments.
A sponsoring organization is prohibited from making any Program payments to a day care home that has been suspended until any administrative review of the proposed termination is completed. If the suspended day care home prevails in the administrative review of the proposed termination, the sponsoring organization must reimburse the day care home for eligible meals served during the suspension period.
(m) Sponsoring organizations of day care homes or unaffiliated centers must not make payments to employees or contractors solely on the basis of the number of homes or centers recruited. However, employees or contractors may be paid or evaluated on the basis of recruitment activities accomplished.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982; 47 FR 46072, Oct. 15, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 21530, May 13, 1983; 50 FR 8580, Mar. 4, 1985; 50 FR 26975, July 1, 1985; 53 FR 52591, Dec. 28, 1988; 63 FR 9729, Feb. 26, 1998; 64 FR 72260, Dec. 27, 1999; 67 FR 43490, June 27, 2002; 69 FR 53544, Sept. 1, 2004; 71 FR 5, Jan. 3, 2006; 72 FR 41608, July 31, 2007; 76 FR 34571, June 13, 2011; 78 FR 13451, Feb. 28, 2013; 88 FR 57856, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.17
Child care center provisions.
(a) Child care centers may participate in the Program either as independent centers or under the auspices of a sponsoring organization; provided, however, that public and private nonprofit centers shall not be eligible to participate in the Program under the auspices of a for-profit sponsoring organization. Child care centers participating as independent centers shall comply with the provisions of § 226.15.
(b) All child care centers, independent or sponsored, shall meet the following requirements
(1) Child care centers must have Federal, State, or local licensing or approval to provide day care services to children. Child care centers, which are complying with applicable procedures to renew licensing or approval, may participate in the Program during the renewal process, unless the State agency has information that indicates that renewal will be denied. If licensing or approval is not available, a child care center may participate if it demonstrates compliance with the CACFP child care standards or any applicable State or local child care standards to the State agency.
(2) Except for for-profit centers, child care centers shall be public, or have tax exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(3) Each child care center participating in the Program must serve one or more of the following meal types—breakfast; lunch; supper; and snack. Reimbursement must not be claimed for more than two meals and one snack or one meal and two snacks provided daily to each child.
(4) Each child care center participating in the Program shall claim only the meal types specified in its approved application in accordance with the meal pattern requirements specified in § 226.20. For-profit child care centers may not claim reimbursement for meals served to children in any month in which less than 25 percent of the children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) were eligible for free or reduced price meals or were title XX beneficiaries. However, children who only receive at-risk afterschool snacks and/or at-risk afterschool meals must not be included in this percentage. Menus and any other nutritional records required by the State agency shall be maintained to document compliance with such requirements.
(5) A child care center with preschool children may also be approved to serve a breakfast, snack, and supper to school-age children participating in an outside-school-hours care program meeting the criteria of § 226.19(b) that is distinct from its day care program for preschool-age children. The State agency may authorize the service of lunch to such participating children who attend a school that does not offer a lunch program, provided that the limit of two meals and one snack, or one meal and two snacks, per child per day is not exceeded.
(6) A child care center with preschool children may also be approved to serve
a snack to school age children participating in an afterschool care program meeting the requirements of § 226.17a that is distinct from its day care program for preschool children, provided that the limit of two meals, and one snack, or one meal and two snacks, per child per day is not exceeded.
(7) A child care center may utilize existing school food service facilities or obtain meals from a school food service facility, and the pertinent requirements of this part shall be embodied in a written agreement between the child care center and school. The center shall maintain responsibility for all Program requirements set forth in this part.
(8) Child care centers shall collect and maintain documentation of the enrollment of each child, including information used to determine eligibility for free and reduced price meals in accordance with § 226.23(e)(1). In addition, Head Start participants need only have a Head Start statement of income eligibility, or a statement of Head Start enrollment from an authorized Head Start representative, to be eligible for free meal benefits under the CACFP. Such documentation of enrollment must be updated annually, signed by a parent or legal guardian, and include information on each child's normal days and hours of care and the meals normally received while in care.
(9) Each child care center must maintain daily records of time of service meal counts by type (breakfast, lunch, supper, and snacks) served to enrolled children, and to adults performing labor necessary to the food service.
(10) Each child care center must require key staff, as defined by the State agency, to attend Program training prior to the center's participation in the Program, and at least annually thereafter, on content areas established by the State agency.
(c) Each child care center shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements established in § 226.10(d), in paragraph (b) of this section and, if applicable, in § 226.15(e). Failure to maintain such records shall be grounds for the denial of reimbursement.
(d) If so instructed by its sponsoring organization, a sponsored center must distribute to parents a copy of the sponsoring organization's notice to parents.
(e) Unaffiliated sponsored child care centers must enter into a written permanent agreement with the sponsoring organization. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties. At a minimum, the agreement must include the provisions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) Independent child care centers must enter into a written permanent agreement with the State agency. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties as required by § 226.6(b)(4). At a minimum, the agreement must include the provisions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 36907, Oct. 2, 1987; 53 FR 52591, Dec. 28, 1988; 54 FR 26724, June 26, 1989; Amdt. 22, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 14, 1990; 61 FR 25554, May 22, 1996; 62 FR 23619, May 1, 1997; 63 FR 9729, Feb. 26, 1998; 64 FR 72261, Dec. 27, 1999; 67 FR 43493, June 27, 2002; 69 FR 53546, Sept. 1, 2004; 70 FR 43262, July 27, 2005; 72 FR 41608, July 31, 2007; 75 FR 16328, Apr. 1, 2010; 78 FR 13451, Feb. 28, 2013; 88 FR 57856, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.17a
At-risk afterschool care center provisions.
(a)
Organizations eligible to receive reimbursement for at-risk afterschool snacks and at-risk afterschool meals
—(1)
Eligible organizations.
To receive reimbursement for at-risk afterschool snacks, organizations must meet the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iv) of this section. To receive reimbursement for at-risk afterschool meals, organizations must meet the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(v) of this section.
(i) Organizations must meet the definition of an
At-risk afterschool care center
in § 226.2. An organization may participate in the Program either as an independent center or as a child care facility under the auspices of a sponsoring organization. Public and private nonprofit centers may not participate under the auspices of a for-profit sponsoring organization.
(ii) Organizations must operate an eligible afterschool care program, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(iii) Organizations must meet the licensing/approval requirements in § 226.6(d)(1).
(iv) Except for for-profit centers, at-risk afterschool care centers must be public, or have tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or be currently participating in another Federal program requiring nonprofit status.
(v) Organizations eligible to be reimbursed for at-risk afterschool meals must be located in one of the eligible States designated by law or selected by the Secretary as directed by law.
(2)
Limitations.
(i) To be reimbursed for at-risk afterschool snacks and/or at-risk afterschool meals, all organizations must:
(A) Serve the at-risk afterschool snacks and/or at-risk afterschool meals to children who are participating in an approved afterschool care program; and
(B) Not exceed the authorized capacity of the at-risk afterschool care center.
(ii) In any calendar month, a for-profit center must be eligible to participate in the Program as described in the definition of For-profit center in § 226.2. However, children who only receive at-risk afterschool snacks and/or at-risk afterschool meals must not be considered in determining this eligibility.
(b)
Eligible at-risk afterschool care programs
—(1)
Eligible programs.
To be eligible for reimbursement, an afterschool care program must:
(i) Be organized primarily to provide care for children after school or on weekends, holidays, or school vacations during the regular school year (an at-risk afterschool care center may not claim snacks during summer vacation, unless it is located in the attendance area of a school operating on a year-round calendar);
(ii) Have organized, regularly scheduled activities (i.e., in a structured and supervised environment);
(iii) Include education or enrichment activities; and
(iv) Except for
Emergency shelters
as defined in § 226.2, be located in an eligible area, as described in paragraph (i) of this section.
(2)
Eligibility limitation.
Organized athletic programs engaged in interscholastic or community level competitive sports are not eligible afterschool care programs.
(c)
Eligibility requirements for children.
At-risk afterschool snacks and/or at-risk afterschool meals are reimbursable only if served to children who are participating in an approved afterschool care program and who either are age 18 or under at the start of the school year or meet the definition of
Persons with disabilities
in § 226.2.
(d)
Licensing requirements for at-risk afterschool care centers.
In accordance with § 226.6(d)(1), if Federal, State or local licensing or approval is not otherwise required, at-risk afterschool care centers must meet State or local health and safety standards. When State or local health and safety standards have not been established, State agencies are encouraged to work with appropriate State and local officials to create such standards. Meeting these standards will remain a precondition for any afterschool center's eligibility for CACFP nutrition benefits. In cases where Federal, State or local licensing or approval is required, at-risk afterschool care centers that are complying with applicable procedures to renew licensing or approval may participate in the Program during the renewal process, unless the State agency has information that indicates the renewal will be denied.
(e)
Application procedures
—(1)
Application.
An official of the organization must make written application to the State agency for any afterschool care program that it wants to operate as an at-risk afterschool care center.
(2)
Required information.
At a minimum, an organization must submit:
(i) An indication that the applicant organization meets the eligibility criteria for organizations as specified in paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) A description of how the afterschool care program(s) meets the eligibility criteria in paragraph (b) of this section;
(iii) In the case of a sponsoring organization, a list of all applicant afterschool care centers;
(iv) Documentation that permits the State agency to confirm that all applicant afterschool care centers are located in an eligible area, as described in paragraph (i) of this section; and
(v) Other information required as a condition of eligibility in the CACFP must be submitted with an application for participation in accordance with § 226.6(b)(1).
(f)
State agency action on applications
—(1)
State agency approval.
The State agency must determine the eligibility of the afterschool care program for each sponsored afterschool care center based on the information submitted by the sponsoring organization in accordance with §§ 226.6(b)(1) and 226.15(g) and the requirements of this section. The State agency must determine the eligibility of the afterschool care programs of independent afterschool care centers based on the information submitted by the independent center in accordance with § 226.6(b)(1) and the requirements of this section. The State agency must determine the area eligibility of independent at-risk afterschool care centers in accordance with the requirements of § 226.6(f)(1)(ix)(B). An approved organization must enter into an agreement with the State agency as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(2)
Agreements.
The State agency must enter into a permanent agreement with an institution approved to operate one or more at-risk afterschool care centers, as described in § 226.6(b)(4). The agreement must describe the approved afterschool care programs and list the approved centers. The agreement must also require the institution to comply with the applicable requirements of this part 226.
(i) Unaffiliated sponsored afterschool care centers must enter into a written permanent agreement with the sponsoring organization. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties. At a minimum, the agreement must include the applicable provisions set forth in this section.
(ii) Independent afterschool care centers must enter into a written permanent agreement with the State agency. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties as required by § 226.6(b)(4). At a minimum, the agreement must include the applicable provisions set forth in this section.
(g)
Application process in subsequent years.
To continue participating in the Program, independent at-risk afterschool care centers must comply with the annual information submission requirements, as described in §§ 226.6(b)(2)(i) and (f)(3)(ii). Sponsoring organizations of at-risk afterschool care centers must comply with the annual information submission requirements, as described in in § 226.6(b)(2)(ii), and provide area eligibility data, as described in § 226.15(g).
(h)
Changes to participating centers.
Independent at-risk afterschool care centers or sponsors of at-risk afterschool care centers must advise the State agency of any substantive changes to the afterschool care program. Sponsoring organizations that want to add new at-risk afterschool care centers must provide the State agency with the information sufficient to demonstrate that the new centers meet the requirements of this section.
(i)
Area eligibility.
Except for emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers must be located in an area described in paragraph (a) of the
Eligible area
definition in § 226.2 and in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(1)
Definition.
An at-risk afterschool care center is in an eligible area if it is located in the attendance area of a school in which at least 50 percent of the enrolled children are certified eligible for free or reduced-price school meals.
(2)
Data used.
Area eligibility determinations must be based on the total number of children approved for free and reduced-price school meals for the preceding October, or another month designated by the State agency that administers the National School Lunch Program (the NSLP State agency). If the NSLP State agency chooses a month other than October, it must do so for the entire State.
(3)
Frequency of area eligibility determinations.
Area eligibility determinations are valid for five years. The State agency may determine the date in the fifth year in which the next five-year cycle of area eligibility will begin. The State agency must not routinely require redeterminations of area eligibility based on updated school data during the five-year period, except in
cases where the State agency has determined it is most efficient to incorporate area eligibility decisions into the three-year application cycle. However, a sponsoring organization, the State agency, or FNS may change the determination of area eligibility if information becomes available indicating that an at-risk afterschool care center is no longer area eligible.
(j)
Cost of at-risk afterschool snacks and meals.
All at-risk afterschool snacks and at-risk afterschool meals served under this section must be provided at no charge to participating children.
(k)
Limit on daily reimbursements.
Only one at-risk afterschool snack and, in eligible States, one at-risk afterschool meal per child per day may be claimed for reimbursement. An at-risk afterschool care center that provides care to a child under another component of the Program during the same day may not claim reimbursement for more than two meals and one snack, or one meal and two snacks, per child per day, including the at-risk afterschool snack and the at-risk afterschool meal. All meals and snacks must be claimed in accordance with the requirements for the applicable component of the Program.
(l)
Meal pattern requirements for at-risk afterschool snacks and at-risk afterschool meals.
At-risk afterschool snacks must meet the meal pattern requirements for snacks in § 226.20(b)(6) and/or (c)(4); at-risk afterschool meals must meet the meal pattern requirements for meals in § 226.20(b)(6) and/or (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3).
(m)
Time periods for snack and meal services
—(1)
At-risk afterschool snacks.
When school is in session, the snack must be served after the child's school day. With State agency approval, the snack may be served at any time on weekends and vacations during the regular school year. Afterschool snacks may not be claimed during summer vacation, unless an at-risk afterschool care center is located in the attendance area of a school operating on a year-round calendar.
(2)
At-risk afterschool meals.
When school is in session, the meal must be served after the child's school day. With State agency approval, any one meal may be served (breakfast, lunch, or supper) per day on weekends and vacations during the regular school year. Afterschool meals may not be claimed during summer vacation, unless an at-risk afterschool care center is located in the attendance area of a school operating on a year-round calendar.
(n)
Reimbursement rates.
At-risk afterschool snacks are reimbursed at the free rate for snacks. At-risk afterschool meals are reimbursed at the respective free rates for breakfast, lunch, or supper
(o)
Recordkeeping requirements.
In addition to the other records required by this part, at-risk afterschool care centers must maintain:
(1) Daily attendance rosters, sign-in sheets or, with State agency approval, other methods which result in accurate recording of daily attendance;
(2) The number of at-risk afterschool snacks prepared or delivered for each snack service and/or, in eligible States, the number of at-risk afterschool meals prepared or delivered for each meal service;
(3) The number of at-risk afterschool snacks served to participating children for each snack service and/or, in eligible States, the number of at-risk afterschool meals served to participating children for each meal service; and
(4) Menus for each at-risk afterschool snack service and each at-risk afterschool meal service.
(p)
Reporting requirements.
In addition to other reporting requirements under this part, at-risk afterschool care centers must report the total number of at-risk afterschool snacks and/or (in eligible States) the total number of at-risk afterschool meals served to eligible children based on daily attendance rosters or sign-in sheets.
(q)
Monitoring requirements.
State agencies must monitor independent centers in accordance with § 226.6(m). Sponsoring organizations of at-risk afterschool care centers must monitor their centers in accordance with § 226.16(d)(4).
[72 FR 41608, July 31, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 16328, Apr. 1, 2010; 78 FR 13451, Feb. 28, 2013; 88 FR 57856, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.18
Day care home provisions.
(a) Day care homes shall have current Federal, State or local licensing or approval to provide day care services to children. Day care homes which cannot obtain their license because they lack the funding to comply with licensing standards may request a total limit per home of $300 in administrative funds from a sponsoring organization to assist them in obtaining their license. Day care homes that, at the option of their sponsoring organization, receive administrative funds for licensing-related expenses must complete documentation requested by their sponsor as described in § 226.16(k) prior to receiving any funds. The agreement must be signed by the sponsoring organization and the provider and must include the provider's full name, mailing address, and date of birth. Day care homes which are complying with applicable procedures to renew licensing or approval may participate in the Program during the renewal process, unless the State agency has information which indicates that renewal will be denied. If licensing or approval is not available, a day care home may participate in the Program if:
(1) It receives title XX funds for providing child care; or
(2) It demonstrates compliance with CACFP child care standards or applicable State or local child care standards to the State agency.
(b) Day care homes participating in the program shall operate under the auspices of a public or private nonprofit sponsoring organization. Sponsoring organizations shall enter into a written permanent agreement with each sponsored day care home which specifies the rights and responsibilities of both parties. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit the ability of the sponsoring organization to suspend or terminate the permanent agreement in accordance with § 226.16(l). This agreement shall be developed by the State agency, unless the State agency elects, at the request of the sponsor, to approve an agreement developed by the sponsor. At a minimum, the agreement shall embody:
(1) The right of the sponsoring organization, the State agency, the Department, and other State and Federal officials to make announced or unannounced reviews of the day care home's operations and to have access to its meal service and records during normal hours of operation.
(2) The responsibility of the sponsoring organization to require key staff, as defined by the State agency, to receive Program training prior to the day care home's participation in the Program, and at least annually thereafter, on content areas established by the State agency, and the responsibility of the day care home to participate in that training;
(3) The responsibility of the day care home to prepare and serve meals which meet the meal patterns specified in § 226.20;
(4) The responsibility of the day care home to maintain records of menus, and of the number of meals, by type, served to enrolled children;
(5) The responsibility of the day care home to promptly inform the sponsoring organization about any change in the number of children enrolled for care or in its licensing or approval status;
(6) The meal types approved for reimbursement to the day care home by the State agency;
(7) The right of the day care home to receive in a timely manner the full food service rate for each meal served to enrolled children for which the sponsoring organization has received payment from the State agency. However, if, with the home provider's consent, the sponsoring organization will incur costs for the provision of program foodstuffs or meals in behalf of the home, and subtract such costs from Program payments to the home, the particulars of this arrangement shall be specified in the agreement. The sponsoring organization must not withhold Program payments to any family day care home for any other reason, except that the sponsoring organization may withhold from the provider any amounts that the sponsoring organization has reason to believe are invalid, due to the provider having submitted a false or erroneous meal count;
(8) The right of the sponsoring organization or the day care home to terminate the agreement for cause or, subject to stipulations by the State agency, convenience;
(9) A prohibition of any sponsoring organization fee to the day care home for its Program administrative services;
(10) If the State agency has approved a time limit for submission of meal records by day care homes, that time limit shall be stated in the agreement;
(11) The responsibility of the sponsoring organization to inform tier II day care homes of all of their options for receiving reimbursement for meals served to enrolled children. These options include:
(i) Receiving tier I rates for the meals served to eligible enrolled children, by electing to have the sponsoring organization identify all income-eligible children through the collection of free and reduced-price applications and the sponsoring organization or day care home's possession of other proof of a child or household's participation in a categorically eligible program;
(ii) Receiving tier I rates for the meals served to eligible enrolled children, by electing to have the sponsoring organization identify only those children for whom the sponsoring organization or day care home possess documentation of the child or household's participation in a categorically eligible program, under the expanded categorical eligibility provision, as described in § 226.23(e)(1); or
(iii) Receiving tier II rates of reimbursement for all meals served to enrolled children;
(12) The responsibility of the sponsoring organization, upon the request of a tier II day care home, to collect applications and determine the eligibility of enrolled children for free or reduced price meals;
(13) The right of the tier II day care home to assist in collecting applications from households and transmitting the applications to the sponsoring organization. However, a tier II day care home may not review the collected applications. The sponsoring organizations may prohibit a tier II day care home from assisting in collection and transmittal of applications if the day care home does not comply with the process, as described in § 226.23(e)(2)(viii);
(14) The State agency's policy to restrict transfers of day care homes between sponsoring organizations;
(15) The responsibility of the day care home to notify their sponsoring organization in advance whenever they are planning to be out of their home during the meal service period. The agreement must also state that, if this procedure is not followed and an unannounced review is conducted when the children are not present in the day care home, claims for meals that would have been served during the unannounced review will be disallowed;
(16) The day care home's opportunity to request an administrative review if a sponsoring organization issues a notice of proposed termination of the day care home's Program agreement, or if a sponsoring organization suspends participation due to health and safety concerns, in accordance with § 226.6(1)(2); and
(17) If so instructed by its sponsoring organization, the day care home's responsibility to distribute to parents a copy of the sponsoring organization's notice to parents.
(c) Each day care home must serve one or more of the following meal types—breakfast, lunch, supper, and snack. Reimbursement may not be claimed for more than two meals and one snack, or one meal and two snacks, provided daily to each child.
(d) Each day care home participating in the program shall serve the meal types specified in its approved application in accordance with the meal pattern requirements specified in § 226.20. Menu records shall be maintained to document compliance with these requirements. Meals shall be served at no separate charge to enrolled children;
(e) Each day care home must maintain on file documentation of each child's enrollment and must maintain daily records of the number of children in attendance and the number of meals, by type, served to enrolled children. Such documentation of enrollment must be updated annually, signed by a parent or legal guardian, and include information on each child's normal
days and hours of care and the meals normally received while in care. Each tier II day care home in which the provider elects to have the sponsoring organization identify enrolled children who are eligible for free or reduced price meals, and in which the sponsoring organization employs a meal counting and claiming system in accordance with § 226.13(d)(3)(i), shall maintain and submit each month to the sponsoring organization daily records of the number and types of meals served to each enrolled child by name. Payment may be made for meals served to the provider's own children only when (1) such children are enrolled and participating in the child care program during the time of the meal service, (2) enrolled nonresident children are present and participating in the child care program and (3) providers' children are eligible to receive free or reduced-price meals. Reimbursement may not be claimed for meals served to children who are not enrolled, or for meals served at any one time to children in excess of the home's authorized capacity or for meals served to providers' children who are not eligible for free or reduced-price meals.
(f) The State agency may not require a day care home or sponsoring organization to maintain documentation of home operating costs.
(g) Each day care home shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements established in § 226.10(d) and in this section. Failure to maintain such records shall be grounds for the denial of reimbursement.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 226.18, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 226.19
Outside-school-hours care center provisions.
(a) Outside-school-hours care centers may participate in the Program either as independent centers or under the auspices of a sponsoring organization;
Provided, however,
That public and private nonprofit centers shall not be eligible to participate in the Program under the auspices of a for-profit sponsoring organization. Outside-school-hours care centers participating as independent centers shall comply with the provisions of § 226.15.
(b) All outside-school-hours care centers, independent or sponsored, shall meet the following requirements:
(1) In accordance with § 226.6(d)(1), if Federal, State or local licensing or approval is not otherwise required, outside-school-hours care centers must meet State or local health and safety standards. When State or local health and safety standards have not been established, State agencies are encouraged to work with appropriate State and local officials to create such standards. Meeting these standards will remain a precondition for any outside-school-hours care center's eligibility for CACFP nutrition benefits. In cases where Federal, State or local licensing or approval is required, outside-school-hours care centers that are complying with applicable procedures to renew licensing or approval may participate in the Program during the renewal process, unless the State agency has information that indicates the renewal will be denied.
(2) Except for for-profit centers, outside-school-hours care centers shall be public, or have tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(3) Nonresidential public or private nonprofit schools which provide organized child care programs for school children may participate in the Program as outside-school-hours care centers if:
(i) Children participate in a regularly scheduled program that meets the criteria of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The program is organized for the purpose of providing services to children and is distinct from any extracurricular programs organized primarily for scholastic, cultural, or athletic purposes; and
(ii) Separate Program records are maintained.
(4) Outside-school-hours care centers shall be eligible to serve one or more of the following meal types: breakfasts, snacks and suppers. In addition, outside-school-hours care centers shall be eligible to serve lunches to enrolled
children during periods of school vacation, including weekends and holidays, and to children attending schools which do not offer a lunch program. Notwithstanding the eligibility of outside-school-hours care centers to serve Program meals to children on school vacation, including holidays and weekends, such centers shall not operate under the Program on weekends only.
(5) Each outside-school-hours care center participating in the Program shall claim only the meal types specified in its approved application and served in compliance with the meal pattern requirements of § 226.20. Reimbursement may not be claimed for more than two meals and one snack provided daily to each child or for meals served to children at any one time in excess of authorized capacity. For-profit centers may not claim reimbursement for meals served to children in any month in which less than 25 percent of the children in care (enrolled or licensed capacity, whichever is less) were eligible for free or reduced price meals or were title XX beneficiaries.
(6) Each outside-school-hours care center must require key operational staff, as defined by the State agency, to attend Program training prior to the center's participation in the Program, and at least annually thereafter, on content areas established by the State agency. Each meal service must be supervised by an adequate number of operational personnel who have been trained in Program requirements as outlined in this section. Operational personnel must ensure that:
(i) Meals are served only to children and to adults who perform necessary food service labor;
(ii) Meals served to children meet the meal pattern requirements specified in § 226.20;
(iii) Meals served are consumed on the premises of the centers;
(iv) Accurate records are maintained; and
(v) The number of meals prepared or ordered is promptly adjusted on the basis of participation trends.
(7) Each outside-school-hours care center shall accurately maintain the following records:
(i) Information used to determine eligibility for free or reduced price meals in accordance with § 226.23(e)(1);
(ii) Number of meals prepared or delivered for each meal service;
(iii) Daily menu records for each meal service;
(iv) Number of meals served to children at each meal service;
(v) Number of children in attendance during each meal service;
(vi) Number of meals served to adults performing necessary food service labor for each meal service; and
(vii) All other records required by the State agency financial management system.
(8) An outside-school-hours care center may utilize existing school food service facilities or obtain meals from a school food service facility, and the pertinent requirements of this part shall be embodied in a written agreement between the outside-school-hours care center and the school. The center shall maintain responsibility for all Program requirements set forth in this part.
(c) Each outside-school-hours care center shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements established in § 226.10(d), in paragraph (b) of this section and, if applicable, in § 226.15(e). Failure to maintain such records shall be grounds for the denial of reimbursement.
(d) Unaffiliated sponsored outside-school-hours-care centers must enter into a written permanent agreement with the sponsoring organization. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties. At a minimum, the agreement must include the provisions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) Independent outside-school-hours care centers must enter into a written permanent agreement with the State agency. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties as required by § 226.6(b)(4). At a minimum, the agreement must include
the provisions described in paragraph (b) of this section.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 36907, Oct. 2, 1987; 54 FR 26724, June 26, 1989; Amdt. 22, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 14, 1990; 56 FR 58175, Nov. 16, 1991; 61 FR 25554, May 22, 1996; 62 FR 23619, May 1, 1997; 64 FR 72261, Dec. 27, 1999; 67 FR 43493, June 27, 2002; 69 FR 53546, Sept. 1, 2004; 70 FR 43262, July 27, 2005; 72 FR 41603, 41610, July 31, 2007; 88 FR 57857, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.19a
Adult day care center provisions.
(a) Adult day care centers may participate in the Program either as independent centers or under the auspices of a sponsoring organization; provided, however, that public and private nonprofit centers shall not be eligible to participate in the Program under the auspices of a for-profit sponsoring organization. Adult day care centers participating as independent centers shall comply with the provisions of § 226.15.
(b) All adult day care centers, independent or sponsored, shall meet the following requirements:
(1) Adult day care centers shall provide a community-based group program designed to meet the needs of functionally impaired adults through an individual plan of care. Such a program shall be a structured, comprehensive program that provides a variety of health, social and related support services to enrolled adult participants.
(2) Adult day care centers shall provide care and services directly or under arrangements made by the agency or organization whereby the agency or organization maintains professional management responsibility for all such services.
(3) Adult day care centers shall have Federal, State or local licensing or approval to provide day care services to functionally impaired adults (as defined in § 226.2) or individuals 60 years of age or older in a group setting outside their home or a group living arrangement on a less than 24-hour basis. Adult day care centers which are complying with applicable procedures to renew licensing or approval may participate in the Program during the renewal process, unless the State agency has information which indicates that renewal will be denied.
(4) Except for for-profit centers, adult day care centers shall be public, or have tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(5) Each adult day care center participating in the Program must serve one or more of the following meal types—breakfast, lunch, supper, and snack. Reimbursement may not be claimed for more than two meals and one snack, or one snack and two meals, provided daily to each adult participant.
(6) Each adult day care center participating in the Program shall claim only the meal types specified in its approved application in accordance with the meal pattern requirements specified in § 226.20. Participating centers may not claim CACFP reimbursement for meals claimed under part C of title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965. Reimbursement may not be claimed for meals served to persons who are not enrolled, or for meals served to participants at any one time in excess of the center's authorized capacity, or for any meal served at a for-profit center during a calendar month when less than 25 percent of enrolled participants were title XIX or title XX beneficiaries. Menus and any other nutritional records required by the State agency shall be maintained to document compliance with such requirements.
(7) An adult day care center may obtain meals from a school food service facility, and the pertinent requirements of this part shall be embodied in a written agreement between the center and school. The center shall maintain responsibility for all Program requirements set forth in this part.
(8) Adult day care centers shall collect and maintain documentation of the enrollment of each adult participant including information used to determine eligibility for free and reduced price meals in accordance with § 226.23(e)(1).
(9) Each adult day care center must maintain daily records of time of service meal counts by type (breakfast, lunch, supper, and snacks) served to enrolled participants, and to adults performing labor necessary to the food service.
(10) Each adult day care center shall maintain records on the age of each enrolled person. In addition, each adult day care center shall maintain records which demonstrate that each enrolled person under the age of 60 meets the functional impairment eligibility requirements established under the definition of “functionally impaired adult” contained in this part. Finally, each adult day care center shall maintain records which document that qualified adult day care participants reside in their own homes (whether alone or with spouses, children or guardians) or in group living arrangements as defined in § 226.2.
(11) Each adult day care center must require key operational staff, as defined by the State agency, to attend Program training prior to the facility's participation in the Program, and at least annually thereafter, on content areas established by the State agency. Each meal service must be supervised by an adequate number of operational personnel who have been trained in Program requirements as outlined in this section.
(c) Each adult day care center shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements established in § 226.10(d), in paragraph (b) of this section and, if applicable, in § 226.15(e). Failure to maintain such records shall be grounds for the denial of reimbursement.
(d) Unaffiliated sponsored adult day care centers must enter into a written permanent agreement with the sponsoring organization. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties. At a minimum, the agreement must address the provisions set forth in paragraph (b) this section.
(e) Independent adult day care centers must enter into a written permanent agreement with the State agency. The agreement must specify the rights and responsibilities of both parties as required by § 226.6(b)(4). At a minimum, the agreement must include the provisions described in paragraph (b) of this section.
[53 FR 52591, Dec. 28, 1988, as amended by Amdt. 22, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 14, 1990; 61 FR 25554, May 22, 1996; 62 FR 23619, May 1, 1997; 64 FR 72261, Dec. 27, 1999; 67 FR 43493, June 27, 2002; 69 FR 53546, Sept. 1, 2004; 72 FR 41610, July 31, 2007; 88 FR 57857, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.20
Requirements for meals.
(a)
Meal components.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, each meal served in the Program must contain, at a minimum, the indicated components:
(1)
Fluid milk.
Fluid milk must be served as a beverage or on cereal, or a combination of both. Lactose-free and reduced-lactose milk that meet the fat content and flavor specifications for each age group may also be offered.
(i)
Children 1 year old.
Unflavored whole milk must be served.
(ii)
Children 2 through 5 years old.
Either unflavored low-fat (1 percent) or unflavored fat-free (skim) milk must be served.
(iii)
Children 6 years old and older.
Low-fat (1 percent fat or less) or fat-free (skim) milk must be served. Milk may be unflavored or flavored.
(iv)
Adults.
Low-fat (1 percent fat or less) or fat-free (skim) milk must be served. Milk may be unflavored or flavored. Six ounces (weight) or
3/4
cup (volume) of yogurt may be used to fulfill the equivalent of 8 ounces of fluid milk once per day. Yogurt may be counted as either a fluid milk substitute or as a meat alternate, but not as both in the same meal.
(2)
Vegetables.
A serving may contain fresh, frozen, or canned vegetables, dry beans, peas, and lentils, or vegetable juice. All vegetables are credited based on their volume as served, except that 1 cup of leafy greens counts as
1/2
cup of vegetables.
(i) Pasteurized, full-strength vegetable juice may be used to fulfill the entire requirement. Vegetable juice or fruit juice may only be served at one meal, including snack, per day.
(ii) Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be counted as either a vegetable or as a meat alternate, but not as both in the same dish.
(3)
Fruits.
A serving may contain fresh, frozen, canned, dried fruits, or
fruit juice. All fruits are based on their volume as served, except that
1/4
cup of dried fruit counts as
1/2
cup of fruit.
(i) Pasteurized, full-strength fruit juice may be used to fulfill the entire requirement. Fruit juice or vegetable juice may only be served at one meal, including snack, per day.
(ii) A vegetable may be used to meet the entire fruit requirement at lunch and supper. When two vegetables are served at lunch or supper, two different kinds of vegetables must be served.
(4)
Grains
—(i)
Enriched and whole grains.
All grains must be made with enriched or whole grain meal or flour.
(A) At least one serving per day, across all eating occasions of bread, cereals, and grains, must be whole grain-rich, as defined in § 226.2. Whole grain-rich is the term designated by FNS to indicate that the grain content of a product is between 50 and 100 percent whole grain with any remaining grains being enriched.
(B) A serving may contain whole grain-rich or enriched bread, cornbread, biscuits, rolls, muffins, and other bread products; or whole grain-rich, enriched, or fortified cereal grain, cooked pasta or noodle products, or breakfast cereal; or any combination of these foods.
(ii)
Breakfast cereals.
Breakfast cereals are those as defined by the Food and Drug Administration in 21 CFR 170.3(n)(4) for ready-to-eat and instant and regular hot cereals. Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce.
(iii)
Desserts.
Grain-based desserts do not count toward meeting the grains requirement.
(5)
Meats/meat alternates
—(i)
Serving meats/meat alternates.
Meats/meat alternates must be served in a main dish, or in a main dish and one other menu item. The creditable quantity of meats/meat alternates must be the edible portion as served of:
(A) Lean meat, poultry, or fish;
(B) Alternate protein products;
(C) Cheese, or an egg;
(D) Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils;
(E) Peanut butter; or
(F) Any combination of these foods.
(ii)
Nuts and seeds.
Nuts and seeds and their butters are allowed as meat alternates. Information on crediting nuts and seeds may be found in FNS guidance.
(A) Nut and seed meals or flours may credit only if they meet the requirements for alternate protein products established in appendix A of this part.
(B) Acorns, chestnuts, and coconuts do not credit as meat alternates because of their low protein and iron content.
(iii)
Yogurt.
Four ounces (weight) or
1/2
cup (volume) of yogurt equals one ounce of the meats/meat alternates component. Yogurt may be used to meet all or part of the meats/meat alternates component as follows:
(A) Yogurt may be plain or flavored, unsweetened, or sweetened;
(B) Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce);
(C) Noncommercial or commercial standardized yogurt products, such as frozen yogurt, drinkable yogurt products, homemade yogurt, yogurt flavored products, yogurt bars, yogurt covered fruits or nuts, or similar products are not creditable; and
(D) For adults, yogurt may only be used as a meat alternate when it is not also being used as a fluid milk substitute in the same meal.
(iv)
Tofu and soy products.
Commercial tofu and soy products may be used to meet all or part of the meats/meat alternates component in accordance with FNS guidance and appendix A of this part. Non-commercial and non-standardized tofu and soy products cannot be used.
(v)
Beans, peas, and lentils.
Cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils may be used to meet all or part of the meats/meat alternates component. Beans, peas, and lentils include black beans, garbanzo beans, lentils, kidney beans, mature lima beans, navy beans, pinto beans, and split peas. Beans, peas, and lentils may be counted as either a
meat/meat alternate or as a vegetable, but not as both in the same dish.
(vi)
Other meat alternates.
Other meat alternates, such as cheese, eggs, and nut butters may be used to meet all or part of the meats/meat alternates component.
(b)
Infant meals
—(1)
Feeding infants.
Foods in reimbursable meals served to infants ages birth through 11 months must be of a texture and a consistency that are appropriate for the age and development of the infant being fed. Foods must also be served during a span of time consistent with the infant's eating habits.
(2)
Breastmilk and iron-fortified formula.
Breastmilk or iron-fortified infant formula, or portions of both, must be served to infants birth through 11 months of age. An institution or facility must offer at least one type of iron-fortified infant formula. Meals containing breastmilk or iron-fortified infant formula supplied by the institution or facility, or by the parent or guardian, are eligible for reimbursement.
(i)
Parent or guardian provided breastmilk or iron-fortified formula.
A parent or guardian may choose to accept the offered formula, or decline the offered formula and supply expressed breastmilk or an iron-fortified infant formula instead. Meals in which a mother directly breastfeeds her child at the child care institution or facility are also eligible for reimbursement. When a parent or guardian chooses to provide breastmilk or iron-fortified infant formula and the infant is consuming solid foods, the institution or facility must supply all other required meal components in order for the meal to be reimbursable.
(ii)
Breastfed infants.
For some breastfed infants who regularly consume less than the minimum amount of breastmilk per feeding, a serving of less than the minimum amount of breastmilk may be offered. In these situations, additional breastmilk must be offered at a later time if the infant will consume more.
(3)
Solid foods.
The gradual introduction of solid foods may begin at six months of age, or before or after six months of age if it is developmentally appropriate for the infant and in accordance with FNS guidance.
(4)
Infant meal pattern.
Infant meals must have, at a minimum, each of the food components indicated, in the amount that is appropriate for the infant's age.
(i)
Birth through 5 months
—(A)
Breakfast.
Four to 6 fluid ounces of breastmilk or iron-fortified infant formula, or portions of both.
(B)
Lunch or supper.
Four to 6 fluid ounces of breastmilk or iron-fortified infant formula, or portions of both.
(C)
Snack.
Four to 6 fluid ounces of breastmilk or iron-fortified infant formula, or portions of both.
(ii)
6 through 11 months.
Breastmilk or iron-fortified formula, or portions of both, is required. Meals are reimbursable when institutions and facilities provide all the components in the meal pattern that the infant is developmentally ready to accept.
(A)
Breakfast, lunch, or supper.
Six to 8 fluid ounces of breastmilk or iron-fortified infant formula, or portions of both; and 0 to
1/2
ounce equivalent of iron-fortified dry infant cereal; or 0-4 tablespoons meat, fish, poultry, whole egg, cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils; or 0 to 2 ounces (weight) of cheese; or 0 to 4 ounces (volume) of cottage cheese; or 0 to 4 ounces of yogurt; and 0 to 2 tablespoons of vegetable, fruit, or portions of both. Fruit juices and vegetable juices must not be served.
(B)
Snack.
Two to 4 fluid ounces of breastmilk or iron-fortified infant formula; and 0 to
1/2
ounce equivalent bread; or 0-
1/4
ounce equivalent crackers; or 0-
1/2
ounce equivalent infant cereal or ready-to-eat cereals; and 0 to 2 tablespoons of vegetable or fruit, or portions of both. Fruit juices and vegetable juices must not be served. A serving of grains must be whole grain-rich, enriched meal, or enriched flour.
(5)
Infant meal pattern table.
The minimum amounts of meal components to serve to infants, as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, are:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)(5)—Infant Meal Patterns
Infants
Birth through 5 months
6 through 11 months
Breakfast, Lunch, or Supper
4-6 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula
2
6-8 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula;
2
and
0-
1/2
ounce equivalent infant cereal;
2 3
or
0-4 tablespoons meat, fish, poultry, whole egg, cooked dry beans, peas, and lentils; or
0-2 ounces of cheese; or
0-4 ounces (volume) of cottage cheese; or
0-4 ounces or
1/2
cup of yogurt;
4
or a combination of the above;
5
and
0-2 tablespoons vegetable or fruit, or a combination of both.
5 6
Snack
4-6 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula
2
2-4 fluid ounces breast milk
1
or formula;
2
and
0-
1/2
ounce equivalent bread;
3 7
or
0-
1/4
ounce equivalent crackers;
3 7
or
0-
1/2
ounce equivalent infant cereal;
2 3
or
0-
1/4
ounce equivalent ready-to-eat breakfast cereal;
3 5 7 8
and
0-2 tablespoons vegetable or fruit, or a combination of both.
5 6
1
Breast milk or formula, or portions of both, must be served; however, it is recommended that breast milk be served from birth through 11 months. For some breastfed infants who regularly consume less than the minimum amount of breast milk per feeding, a serving of less than the minimum amount of breast milk may be offered, with additional breast milk offered at a later time if the infant will consume more.
2
Infant formula and dry infant cereal must be iron-fortified.
3
Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
4
Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce).
5
A serving of this component is required when the infant is developmentally ready to accept it.
6
Fruit and vegetable juices must not be served.
7
A serving of grains must be whole grain-rich, enriched meal, enriched flour, bran, or germ.
8
Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce.
(c)
Meal patterns for children age 1 through 18 and adult participants.
Institutions and facilities must serve the meal components and quantities specified in the following meal patterns for children and adult participants in order to qualify for reimbursement.
(1)
Breakfast.
Fluid milk, vegetables or fruit, or portions of both, and grains are required components of the breakfast meal. Meats/meat alternates may be offered to meet the entire grains requirement a maximum of three times per week. The minimum amounts of meal components to be served at breakfast are as follows:
Table 2 to Paragraph (
c
)(1)—Child and Adult Care Food Program Breakfast
[Select the appropriate components for a reimbursable meal]
Meal components and food items
1
Minimum quantities
Ages 1-2
Ages 3-5
Ages 6-12
Ages 13-18
2
Adult participants
Fluid Milk
4 fluid ounces
3
6 fluid ounces
4
8 fluid ounces
5
8 fluid ounces
5
8 fluid ounces.
6
Vegetables, fruits, or portions of both
7
1/4
cup
1/2
cup
1/2
cup
1/2
cup
1/2
cup.
Grains
8
1/2
ounce equivalent
1/2
ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent
2 ounce equivalents.
1
Must serve all three components for a reimbursable meal. Offer versus serve is an option for at-risk afterschool care and adult day care centers.
2
At-risk afterschool programs and emergency shelters may need to serve larger portions to children ages 13 through 18 to meet their nutritional needs.
3
Must serve unflavored whole milk to children age 1.
4
Must serve unflavored milk to children 2 through 5 years old. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less.
5
May serve unflavored or flavored milk to children ages 6 and older. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less.
6
May serve unflavored or flavored milk to adults. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less. Yogurt may be offered in the place of milk once per day for adults. Yogurt may count as either a fluid milk substitute or as a meat alternate, but not both, in the same meal. Six ounces (by weight) or
3/4
cup (by volume) of yogurt is the equivalent of 8 ounces of fluid milk. Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce).
7
Juice must be pasteurized. Full-strength juice may only be offered to meet the vegetable or fruit requirement at one meal or snack, per day.
8
Must serve at least one whole grain-rich serving, across all eating occasions, per day. Grain-based desserts may not be used to meet the grains requirement. Meats/meat alternates may be offered in place of the entire grains requirement, up to 3 times per week at breakfast. One ounce equivalent of meats/meat alternates credits equal to one ounce equivalent of grains. Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce. Information on crediting grain items and meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
(2)
Lunch and supper.
Fluid milk, meats/meat alternates, vegetables, fruits, and grains are required components in the lunch and supper meals. The minimum amounts of meal components to be served at lunch and supper are as follows:
Table 3 to Paragraph (
c
)(2)—Child and Adult Care Food Program Lunch and Supper
[Select the appropriate components for a reimbursable meal]
Meal components and food items
1
Minimum quantities
Ages 1-2
Ages 3-5
Ages 6-12
Ages 13-18
2
Adult participants
Fluid milk
4 fluid ounces
3
6 fluid ounces
4
8 fluid ounces
5
8 fluid ounces
5
8 fluid ounces.
6
Meats/meat alternates
7
1 ounce equivalent
1
1/2
ounce equivalents
2 ounce equivalents
2 ounce equivalents
2 ounce equivalents.
Vegetables
8
1/8
cup
1/4
cup
1/2
cup
1/2
cup
1/2
cup.
Fruits
8
1/8
cup
1/4
cup
1/4
cup
1/4
cup
1/2
cup.
Grains
9
1/2
ounce equivalent
1/2
ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent
2 ounce equivalents.
1
Must serve all five components for a reimbursable meal. Offer versus serve is an option for at-risk afterschool care and adult day care centers.
2
At-risk afterschool programs and emergency shelters may need to serve larger portions to children ages 13 through 18 to meet their nutritional needs.
3
Must serve unflavored whole milk to children age 1.
4
Must serve unflavored milk to children 2 through 5 years old. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less.
5
May serve unflavored or flavored milk to children ages 6 and older. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less.
6
May serve unflavored or flavored milk to adults. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less. Yogurt may be offered in place of milk once per day for adults. Yogurt may count as either a fluid milk substitute or as a meat alternate, but not both, in the same meal. Six ounces (by weight) or
3/4
cup (by volume) of yogurt is the equivalent of 8 ounces of fluid milk. A serving of fluid milk is optional for suppers served to adult participants.
7
Alternate protein products must meet the requirements in appendix A to this part. Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce). Information on crediting meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
8
Juice must be pasteurized. Full-strength juice may only be offered to meet the vegetable or fruit requirement at one meal or snack, per day. A vegetable may be offered to meet the entire fruit requirement. When two vegetables are served at lunch or supper, two different kinds of vegetables must be served.
9
Must serve at least one whole grain-rich serving, across all eating occasions, per day. Grain-based desserts may not be used to meet the grains requirement. Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereal must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugars per dry ounce. Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
(3)
Snack.
Serve two of the following five components: Fluid milk, meats/meat alternates, vegetables, fruits, and grains. Fruit juice, vegetable juice, and
milk may comprise only one component of the snack. The minimum amounts of meal components to be served at snacks are as follows:
Table 4 to Paragraph (
c
)(3)—Child and Adult Care Food Program Snack
[Select two of the five components for a reimbursable snack]
Meal components and food items
1
Minimum quantities
Ages 1-2
Ages 3-5
Ages 6-12
Ages 13-18
2
Adult participants
Fluid milk
4 fluid ounces
3
4 fluid ounces
4
8 fluid ounces
5
8 fluid ounces
5
8 fluid ounces.
6
Meats/meat alternates
7
1/2
ounce equivalent
1/2
ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent.
Vegetables
8
1/2
cup
1/2
cup
3/4
cup
3/4
cup
1/2
cup.
Fruits
8
1/2
cup
1/2
cup
3/4
cup
3/4
cup
1/2
cup.
Grains
9
1/2
ounce equivalent
1/2
ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent
1 ounce equivalent.
1
Must serve two of the five components for a reimbursable snack. Milk and juice may not be served as the only two items in a reimbursable snack.
2
At-risk afterschool programs and emergency shelters may need to serve larger portions to children ages 13 through 18 to meet their nutritional needs.
3
Must serve unflavored whole milk to children age 1.
4
Must serve unflavored milk to children 2 through 5 years old. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less.
5
May serve unflavored or flavored milk to children ages 6 and older. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less.
6
May serve unflavored or flavored milk to adults. The milk must be fat-free, skim, low-fat, or 1 percent or less. Yogurt may be offered in place of milk, once per day for adults. Yogurt may count as either a fluid milk substitute or as a meat alternate, but not both, in the same meal. Six ounces (by weight) or
3/4
cup (by volume) of yogurt is the equivalent of 8 ounces of fluid milk.
7
Alternate protein products must meet the requirements in appendix A to this part. Through September 30, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 23 grams of total sugars per 6 ounces. By October 1, 2025, yogurt must contain no more than 12 grams of added sugars per 6 ounces (2 grams of added sugars per ounce). Information on crediting meats/meat alternates may be found in FNS guidance.
8
Juice must be pasteurized. Full-strength juice may only be offered to meet the vegetable or fruit requirement at one meal or snack, per day.
9
Must serve at least one whole grain-rich serving, across all eating occasions, per day. Grain-based desserts may not be used to meet the grains requirement. Through September 30, 2025, breakfast cereals must contain no more than 6 grams of total sugars per dry ounce. By October 1, 2025, breakfast cereal must contain no more than 6 grams of added sugar per dry ounce. Information on crediting grain items may be found in FNS guidance.
(d)
Food preparation.
Deep-fat fried foods that are prepared on-site cannot be part of the reimbursable meal. For this purpose, deep-fat frying means cooking by submerging food in hot oil or other fat. Foods that are pre-fried, flash-fried, or par-fried by a commercial manufacturer may be served, but must be reheated by a method other than frying.
(e)
Unavailability of fluid milk
—(1)
Temporary.
When emergency conditions prevent an institution or facility normally having a supply of milk from temporarily obtaining milk deliveries, the State agency may approve the service of breakfast, lunches, or suppers without milk during the emergency period.
(2)
Continuing.
When an institution or facility is unable to obtain a supply of milk on a continuing basis, the State agency may approve service of meals without milk, provided an equivalent amount of canned, whole dry or fat-free dry milk is used in the preparation of the components of the meal set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(f)
Grain substitutions.
In American Samoa, Guam, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and in institutions or facilities in any State that serve primarily American Indian or Alaska Native participants, any vegetable, including vegetables such as breadfruit, prairie turnips, plantains, sweet potatoes, and yams, may be served to meet the grains requirement.
(g)
Modifications and variations in reimbursable meals and snacks as described
in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section
—(1)
Modifications for disability reasons.
Institutions and facilities must make meal modifications including substitutions in meals and snacks described in this section for participants with a disability and whose disability restricts their diet. The modification requested must be related to the disability and must be offered at no additional cost to the child or adult participant.
(i) In order to receive Federal reimbursement when a modified meal does not meet the meal pattern requirements specified in this section, the institution or facility must obtain from the household a written medical statement signed by a State licensed healthcare professional. By October 1, 2025, institutions and facilities must also accept a medical statement signed by a registered dietitian. The medical statement must provide sufficient information about the child or adult participant's dietary restrictions, such as foods to be omitted and recommended alternatives, if appropriate. Modified meals that meet the meal pattern requirements in this section are reimbursable with or without a medical statement.
(ii) Institutions and facilities must ensure that parents and guardians, and their children when age-appropriate at institution or facility discretion; adult participants; and persons on behalf of adult participants have notice of the procedure for requesting meal modifications for disabilities and the process for procedural safeguards related to meal modifications for disabilities. See §§ 15b.6(b) and 15b.25 of this title.
(iii) Expenses incurred when making meal modifications that exceed Program reimbursement rates must be paid by the institution or facility; costs may be paid from the institution or facility's nonprofit food service account.
(iv) A parent, guardian, adult participant, or a person on behalf of an adult participant may supply one or more components of the reimbursable meal as long as the institution or facility provides at least one required meal component.
(2)
Variations for non-disability reason
s. (i) Institutions and facilities should consider participants' dietary preferences when planning and preparing meals and snacks. Any variations must be consistent with the meal pattern requirements specified in this section.
(ii) Expenses incurred from variations that exceed program reimbursement rates must be paid by the institution or facility; costs may be paid from the institution or facility's nonprofit food service account.
(iii) A parent, guardian, adult participant, or a person on behalf of an adult participant may supply one component of the reimbursable meal as long as the component meets the requirements described in this section and the institution or facility provides the remaining components.
(3)
Fluid milk substitutes for non-disability reasons.
(i) An institution or facility may offer fluid milk substitutes based on a written request from a child's parent or guardian, an adult participant, a person on behalf of an adult participant, a State licensed healthcare professional, or registered dietitian for participants with dietary needs that are not disabilities that identifies the reason for the substitute. An institution or facility choosing to offer fluid milk substitutes for a non-disability reason is not required to offer the specific fluid milk substitutes requested but may offer the fluid milk substitutes of its choice, provided the fluid milk substitutes offered meet the requirements of paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section. For disability-related meal modifications, see paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(ii) If an institution or facility chooses to offer one or more fluid milk substitutes for non-disability reasons, the fluid milk substitutes must provide, at a minimum, the nutrients listed in the following table. Fluid milk substitutes must be fortified in accordance with fortification guidelines issued by the Food and Drug Administration.
Table 5 to Paragraph (
g
)(3)(
ii
)—Nutrient Requirements for Fluid Milk Substitutes
Nutrient
Per cup
(8 fl. oz.)
Calcium
276 mg.
Protein
8 g.
Vitamin A
150 mcg. retinol activity equivalents (RAE).
Vitamin D
2.5 mcg.
Magnesium
24 mg.
Phosphorus
222 mg.
Potassium
349 mg.
Riboflavin
0.44 mg.
Vitamin B-12
1.1 mcg.
(iii) Expenses incurred when providing fluid milk substitutes that exceed Program reimbursements must be paid by the participating institution or facility; costs may be paid from the institution or facility's nonprofit food service account.
(h)
Special variations.
FNS may approve variations in the meal components of the meals on an experimental or continuing basis in any institution or facility where there is evidence that such variations are nutritionally sound and are necessary to meet ethnic, religious, economic, or physical needs.
(i)
Meals prepared in schools.
The State agency must allow institutions and facilities which serve meals to children 5 years old and older and are prepared in schools participating in the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs to substitute the meal pattern requirements of the regulations governing those Programs (parts 210 and 220 of this chapter, respectively) for the meal pattern requirements contained in this section.
(j)
Meal planning.
Institutions and facilities must plan for and order meals on the basis of current participant trends, with the objective of providing only one meal per participant at each meal service. Records of participation and of ordering or preparing meals must be maintained to demonstrate positive action toward this objective. In recognition of the fluctuation in participation levels which makes it difficult to estimate precisely the number of meals needed and to reduce the resultant waste, any excess meals that are ordered may be served to participants and may be claimed for reimbursement, unless the State agency determines that the institution or facility has failed to plan and prepare or order meals with the objective of providing only one meal per participant at each meal service.
(k)
Time of meal service.
State agencies may require any institution or facility to allow a specific amount of time to elapse between meal services or require that meal services not exceed a specified duration.
(l)
Sanitation.
Institutions and facilities must ensure that in storing, preparing, and serving food proper sanitation and health standards are met which conform with all applicable State and local laws and regulations. Institutions and facilities must ensure that adequate facilities are available to store food or hold meals.
(m)
Donated commodities.
Institutions and facilities must efficiently use in the Program any foods donated by the Department and accepted by the institution or facility.
(n)
Family style meal service.
Family style is a type of meal service which allows children and adults to serve themselves from common platters of food with the assistance of supervising adults. Institutions and facilities choosing to exercise this option must be in compliance with the following practices:
(1) A sufficient amount of prepared food must be placed on each table to provide the full required portions of each of the components, as outlined in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, for all children or adults at the table and to accommodate supervising adults if they wish to eat with the children and adults.
(2) Children and adults must be allowed to serve the meal components themselves, with the exception of fluids (such as milk). During the course of the meal, it is the responsibility of
the supervising adults to actively encourage each child and adult to serve themselves the full required portion of each meal component of the meal pattern. Supervising adults who choose to serve the fluids directly to the children or adults must serve the required minimum quantity to each child or adult.
(3) Institutions and facilities which use family style meal service may not claim second meals for reimbursement.
(o)
Offer versus Serve.
(1) Each adult day care center and at-risk afterschool program must offer its participants all of the required food servings as set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. However, at the discretion of the adult day care center or at-risk afterschool program, participants may be permitted to decline:
(i)
For adults
—(A)
One of the four food
items required at breakfast (one serving of fluid milk; one serving of vegetable or fruit, or a combination of both; and two servings of grains, or meat or meat alternates);
(B)
Two of the five
meal components required at lunch (fluid milk; vegetables; fruit; grain; and meat or meat alternate); and
(C)
One of the four
meal components required at supper (vegetables; fruit; grain; and meat or meat alternate).
(ii)
For children. Two of the five
meal components required at supper (fluid milk; vegetables; fruit; grain; and meat or meat alternate).
(2) In pricing programs, the price of the reimbursable meal must not be affected if a participant declines a food item.
(p)
Prohibition on using foods and beverages as punishments or rewards.
Meals served under this part must contribute to the development and socialization of children. Institutions and facilities must not use foods and beverages as punishments or rewards.
(q)
Severability.
If any provision of this section is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstances, it shall be severable from this section and not affect the remainder thereof. In the event of such holding of invalidity or unenforceability of a provision, the meal pattern requirements covered by that provision reverts to the version that immediately preceded the invalidated provision.
[81 FR 24377, Apr. 25, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 75677, Nov. 1, 2016; 83 FR 56716, Nov. 30, 2017; 84 FR 50292, Sept. 25, 2019; 85 FR 7855, Feb. 12, 2020; 85 FR 74850, Nov. 24, 2020; 86 FR 57547, Oct. 18, 2021; 87 FR 4127, Jan. 27, 2022; 87 FR 7007, Feb. 7, 2022; 89 FR 32088, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 226.21
Food service management companies.
(a) Any institution may contract with a food service management company. An institution which contracts with a food service management company must remain responsible for ensuring that the food service operation conforms to its agreement with the State agency. All procurements of meals from food service management companies must adhere to the procurement standards set forth in § 226.22 and comply with the following procedures intended to prevent fraud, waste, and Program abuse:
(1) All proposed contracts shall be publicly announced at least once 14 calendar days prior to the opening of bids. The announcement shall include the time and place of the bid opening;
(2) The institution shall notify the State agency at least 14 calendar days prior to the opening of the bids of the time and place of the bid opening;
(3) The invitation to bid shall not provide for loans or any other monetary benefit or terms or conditions to be made to institutions by food service management companies;
(4) Nonfood items shall be excluded from the invitation to bid, except where such items are essential to the conduct of the food service;
(5) The invitation to bid shall not specify special meal requirements to meet ethnic or religious needs unless special requirements are necessary to meet the needs of the participants to be served;
(6) The bid shall be publicly opened;
(7) All bids totaling $50,000 or more shall be submitted to the State agency for approval before acceptance. All bids shall be submitted to the State agency for approval before accepting a bid which exceeds the lowest bid. State agencies shall respond to any request
for approval within 10 working days of receipt;
(8) The institutions shall inform the State agency of the reason for selecting the food service management company chosen. State agencies may require institutions to submit copies of all bids submitted under this section.
(b) The institution and the food service management company shall enter into a standard contract as required by § 226.6(i). However, public institutions may, with the approval of the State agency, use their customary form of contract if it incorporates the provisions of § 226.6(i).
(c) A copy of the contract between each institution and food service management company shall be submitted to the State agency prior to the beginning of Program operations under the subject contract.
(d) Each proposed additional provision to the standard form of contract shall be submitted to the State agency for approval.
(e) A food service management company may not subcontract for the total meal, with or without milk, or for the assembly of the meal.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 53 FR 52594, Dec. 28, 1988; 83 FR 63791, Dec. 12, 2018; 88 FR 57857, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.22
Procurement standards.
(a)
General.
This section establishes standards and guidelines for the procurement of foods, supplies, equipment, and other goods and services. These standards are furnished to ensure that goods and services are obtained efficiently and economically and in compliance with the provisions of applicable Federal law and Executive orders.
(b)
Compliance.
Institutions may use their own procedures for procurement with Program funds to the extent that:
(1) Procurements by public institutions comply with applicable State or local laws and standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415; and
(2) Procurements by private nonprofit institutions comply with standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.
(c)
Geographic preference.
(1) Institutions participating in the Program may apply a geographic preference when procuring unprocessed locally grown or locally raised agricultural products, including the use of “locally grown”, “locally raised”, or “locally caught” as procurement specifications or selection criteria for unprocessed or minimally processed food items. When utilizing the geographic preference to procure such products, the institution making the purchase has the discretion to determine the local area to which the geographic preference option will be applied so long as there are an appropriate number of qualified firms able to compete;
(2) For the purpose of applying the optional geographic preference in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, “unprocessed locally grown or locally raised agricultural products” means only those agricultural products that retain their inherent character. The effects of the following food handling and preservation techniques will not be considered as changing an agricultural product into a product of a different kind or character: Cooling; refrigerating; freezing; size adjustment made by peeling, slicing, dicing, cutting, chopping, shucking, and grinding; forming ground products into patties without any additives or fillers; drying/dehydration; washing; packaging (such as placing eggs in cartons), vacuum packing and bagging (such as placing vegetables in bags or combining two or more types of vegetables or fruits in a single package); addition of ascorbic acid or other preservatives to prevent oxidation of produce; butchering livestock and poultry; cleaning fish; and the pasteurization of milk.
[88 FR 57857, Aug. 23, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 32092, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 226.23
Free and reduced-price meals.
(a) The State agency must not enter into a Program agreement with a new institution until the institution has submitted, and the State agency has approved, a written policy statement concerning free and reduced-price meals to be used in all child and adult day care facilities under its jurisdiction, as described in paragraph (b) of this section. The State agency must
not require an institution to revise its free and reduced-price policy statement or its nondiscrimination statement unless the institution makes a substantive change to either policy. Pending approval of a revision to these statements, the existing policy must remain in effect.
(b) Institutions that may not serve meals at a separate charge to children (including emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, and sponsoring organizations of emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, and day care homes) and other institutions that elect to serve meals at no separate charge must develop a policy statement consisting of an assurance to the State agency that all participants are served the same meals at no separate charge, regardless of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability and that there is no discrimination in the course of the food service.This statement shall also contain an assurance that there will be no identification of children in day care homes in which meals are reimbursed at both the tier I and tier II reimbursement rates, and that the sponsoring organization will not make any free and reduced price eligibility information concerning individual households available to day care homes and will otherwise limit the use of such information to persons directly connected with the administration and enforcement of the Program.
(c) Independent centers and sponsoring organizations of centers which charge separately for meals shall develop a policy statement for determining eligibility for free and reduced-price meals which shall include the following:
(1) The specific criteria to be used in determining eligibility for free and reduced-price meals. The institution's standards of eligibility shall conform to the Secretary's income standards;
(2) A description of the method or methods to be used in accepting applications from families for free and reduced-price meals. These methods will ensure that applications are accepted from households on behalf of a foster child and children who receive SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF assistance, or for adult participants who receive SNAP, FDPIR, SSI, or Medicaid assistance;
(3) A description of the method or methods to be used to collect payments from those participants paying the full or reduced price of the meal which will protect the anonymity of the participants receiving a free or reduced-price meal;
(4) An assurance which provides that the institution will establish a hearing procedure for use when benefits are denied or terminated as a result of verification:
(i) A simple, publicly announced method for a family to make an oral or written request for a hearing;
(ii) An opportunity for the family to be assisted or represented by an attorney or other person in presenting its appeal;
(iii) An opportunity to examine, prior to and during the hearing, the documents and records presented to support the decision under appeal;
(iv) That the hearing shall be held with reasonable promptness and convenience to the family and that adequate notice shall be given to the family as to the time and place of the hearing;
(v) An opportunity for the family to present oral or documentary evidence and arguments supporting its position;
(vi) An opportunity for the family to question or refute any testimony or other evidence and to confront and cross-examine any adverse witnesses;
(vii) That the hearing shall be conducted and the determination made by a hearing official who did not participate in making the initial decision;
(viii) The determination of the hearing official shall be based on the oral and documentary evidence presented at the hearing and made a part of that hearing record;
(ix) That the family and any designated representatives shall be notified in writing of the decision of the hearing official;
(x) That a written record shall be prepared with respect to each hearing, which shall include the decision under appeal, any documentary evidence and a summary of any oral testimony presented at the hearing, the decision of
the hearing official, including the reasons therefor, and a copy of the notification to the family of the decision of the hearing official; and
(xi) That such written record of each hearing shall be preserved for a period of three years and shall be available for examination by the family or its representatives at any reasonable time and place during such period;
(5) An assurance that there will be no overt identification of free and reduced-price meal recipients and no discrimination against any participant on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or handicap;
(6) An assurance that the charges for a reduced-price lunch or supper will not exceed 40 cents, that the charge for a reduced-price breakfast will not exceed 30 cents, and that the charge for a reduced-price snack will not exceed 15 cents.
(d) Each institution shall annually provide the information media serving the area from which the institution draws its attendance with a public release, unless the State agency has issued a Statewide media release on behalf of all institutions. All media releases issued by institutions other than emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, and sponsoring organizations of emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, or day care homes must include the Secretary's Income Eligibility Guidelines for Free and Reduced-Price Meals. The release issued by all emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, and sponsoring organizations of emergency shelters, at-risk afterschool care centers, or day care homes, and by other institutions which elect not to charge separately for meals, must announce the availability of meals at no separate charge. The release issued by child care institutions which charge separately for meals shall announce the availability of free and reduced-price meals to children meeting the approved eligibility criteria. The release issued by child care institutions shall also announce that a foster child, or a child who is a member of a household receiving SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF assistance, or a Head Start participant is automatically eligible to receive free meal benefits. The release issued by adult day care centers which charge separately for meals shall announce the availability of free and reduced-price meals to participants meeting the approved eligibility criteria. The release issued by adult day care centers shall also announce that adult participants who are members of SNAP or FDPIR households or who are SSI or Medicaid participants are automatically eligible to receive free meal benefits. All releases shall state that meals are available to all participants without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, age or disability.
(e)(1)
Application for free and reduced-price meals.
(i) For the purpose of determining eligibility for free and reduced price meals, institutions (other than emergency shelters and at-risk afterschool care centers) shall distribute applications for free and reduced price meals to the families of participants enrolled in the institution. Sponsoring organizations of day care homes shall distribute applications for free and reduced price meals to day care home providers who wish to enroll their own eligible children in the Program. At the request of a provider in a tier II day care home, sponsoring organizations of day care homes shall distribute applications for free and reduced price meals to the households of all children enrolled in the home, except that applications need not be distributed to the households of enrolled children that the sponsoring organization determines eligible for free and reduced price meals under the circumstances described in paragraph (e)(1)(vi) of this section. These applications, and any other descriptive material distributed to such persons, shall contain only the family-size income levels for reduced price meal eligibility with an explanation that households with incomes less than or equal to these levels are eligible for free or reduced price meals. Such forms and descriptive materials may not contain the income standards for free meals. However, such forms and materials distributed by child care institutions other than sponsoring organizations of day care homes shall state that, if a child is a member of a SNAP or FDPIR household or is a TANF recipient, the child is automatically eligible to receive free Program
meal benefits, subject to the completion of the application as described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section; such forms and materials distributed by sponsoring organizations of day care homes shall state that, if a child or a child's parent is participating in or subsidized under a Federally or State supported child care or other benefit program with an income eligibility limit that does not exceed the eligibility standard for free or reduced price meals, meals served to the child are automatically eligible for tier I reimbursement, subject to the completion of the application as described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, and shall list any programs identified by the State agency as meeting this standard; such forms and materials distributed by adult day care centers shall state that, if an adult participant is a member of a SNAP or FDPIR household or is a SSI or Medicaid participant, the adult participant is automatically eligible to receive free Program meal benefits, subject to the completion of the application as described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section. Sponsoring organizations of day care homes shall not make free and reduced price eligibility information concerning individual households available to day care homes and shall otherwise limit the use of such information to persons directly connected with the administration and enforcement of the Program. However, sponsoring organizations may inform tier II day care homes of the number of identified income-eligible enrolled children. If a State agency distributes, or chooses to permit its sponsoring organizations to distribute, applications to the households of children enrolled in tier II day care homes which include household confidentiality waiver statements, such applications shall include a statement informing households that their participation in the program is not dependent upon signing the waivers. Furthermore, such forms and materials distributed by child care institutions shall state that a foster child is automatically eligible to receive free Program meal benefits, and a child who is a Head Start participant is automatically eligible to receive free Program meal benefits, subject to submission by Head Start officials of a Head Start statement of income eligibility or income eligibility documentation.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section, the application for children shall contain a request for the following information:
(A) The names of all children for whom application is made;
(B) The names of all other household members;
(C) The last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application, or an indication that the adult does not possess a social security number.
(D) The income received by each household member identified by source of income (such as earnings, wages, welfare, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, social security, and other cash income received or withdrawn from any other source, including savings, investments, trust accounts, and other resources);
(E) A statement which includes substantially the following information:
(
1
) “The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act requires the information on this application. You do not have to give the information, but if you do not, we cannot approve the participant for free or reduced-price meals. You must include the last four digits of the Social Security Number of the adult household member who signs the application. The last four digits of the Social Security Number are not required when you apply on behalf of a foster child or you list a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program or Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR) case number for the participant or other (FDPIR) identifier or when you indicate that the adult household member signing the application does not have a Social Security Number. We will use your information to determine if the participant is eligible for free or reduced-price meals, and for administration and enforcement of the Program.”
(
2
) When either the State agency or the child care institution plans to use or disclose children's eligibility information for non-program purposes, additional information, as specified in
paragraph (k) of this section, must be added to this statement; and
(F) The signature of an adult member of the household which appears immediately below a statement that the person signing the application certifies that all information furnished is true and correct; that the application is being made in connection with the receipt of Federal funds; that Program officials may verify the information on the application; and that the deliberate misrepresentation of any of the information on the application may subject the applicant to prosecution under applicable State and Federal criminal statutes.
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section, the application for adults shall contain a request for the following information:
(A) The names of all adults for whom application is made;
(B) The names of all other household members;
(C) The last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application, or an indication that the adult does not possess a social security number.
(D) The income received by source of income (such as earnings, wages, welfare, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, social security, and other cash income received or withdrawn from any other source, including savings, investments, trust accounts and other resources);
(E) A statement which includes substantially the following information: “The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act requires the information on this meal benefit form. You do not have to give the information, but if you do not, we cannot approve the participant for free or reduced-price meals. You must include the last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the meal benefit form. The last four digits of the social security number are not required when you list a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR) or other FDPIR identifier, SSI or Medicaid case number for the participant receiving meal benefits or when you indicate that the adult household member signing the application does not have a social security number. We will use your information to determine if the participant is eligible for free or reduced-price meals, and for administration and enforcement of the CACFP;” and
(F) The signature of an adult member of the household which appears immediately below a statement that the person signing the application certifies that all information furnished is true and correct; that the application is being made in connection with the receipt of Federal funds; that Program officials may verify the information on the application; and that the deliberate misrepresentation of any of the information on the application may subject the applicant to prosecution under applicable State and Federal criminal statutes.
(iv) If they so desire, households applying on behalf of children who are members of SNAP or FDPIR households who are TANF recipients may apply under this paragraph rather than under the procedures described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. In addition, households of children enrolled in tier II day care homes who are participating in a Federally or State supported child care or other benefit program with an income eligibility limit that does not exceed the eligibility standard for free and reduced price meals may apply under this paragraph rather than under the procedures described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. Households applying on behalf of children who are members of SNAP or FDPIR households; children who are TANF recipients; or for children enrolled in tier II day care homes, other qualifying Federal or State program, shall be required to provide:
(A) For the child(ren) for whom automatic free meal eligibility is claimed, their names and SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF case number; or for the households of children enrolled in tier II day care homes, their names and other program case numbers (if the program utilizes case numbers); and
(B) The signature of an adult member of the household as provided for in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(G) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(F) of this section, if a case
number is provided, it may be used to verify the current certification for the child(ren) for whom free meal benefits are claimed. Whenever households apply for children not receiving SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF benefits; or for tier II homes, other qualifying Federal or State program benefits, they must apply in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
(v) If they so desire, households applying on behalf of adults who are members of SNAP or FDPIR households or SSI or Medicaid participants may apply for free meal benefits under this paragraph rather than under the procedures described in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section. Households applying on behalf of adults who are members of SNAP or FDPIR households or SSI or Medicaid participants shall be required to provide:
(A) The names and SNAP or FDPIR case numbers or SSI or Medicaid assistance identification numbers of the adults for whom automatic free meal eligibility is claimed; and
(B) The signature of an adult member of the household as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(F) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(G) of this section, if a SNAP or FDPIR case number or SSI or Medicaid assistance identification number is provided, it may be used to verify the current SNAP, FDPIR, SSI, or Medicaid certification for the adult(s) for whom free meal benefits are being claimed. Whenever households apply for benefits for adults not receiving SNAP, FDPIR, SSI, or Medicaid benefits, they must apply in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.
(vi) A sponsoring organization of day care homes may identify enrolled children eligible for free and reduced price meals (i.e., tier I rates), without distributing free and reduced price applications, by documenting the child's or household's participation in or receipt of benefits under a Federally or State supported child care or other benefit program with an income eligibility limit that does not exceed the eligibility standard for free and reduced price meals. Documentation shall consist of official evidence, available to the tier II day care home or sponsoring organization, and in the possession of the sponsoring organization, of the household's participation in the qualifying program.
(vii) If a tier II day care home elects to assist in collecting and transmitting the applications to the sponsoring organization, it is the responsibility of the sponsoring organization to establish procedures to ensure the provider does not review or alter the application. The household consent form must explain that:
(A) The household is not required to complete the income eligibility form in order for their children to participate in CACFP:
(B) The household may return the application to either the sponsoring organization or the day care home provider;
(C) By signing the letter and giving it to the day care home provider, the household has given the day care home provider written consent to collect and transmit the household's application to the sponsoring organization; and
(D) The application will not be reviewed by the day care home provider.
(2)
Letter to households.
Institutions shall distribute a letter to households or guardians of enrolled participants in order to inform them of the procedures regarding eligibility for free and reduced-price meals. The letter shall accompany the application required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section and shall contain:
(i) The income standards for reduced-price meals, with an explanation that households with incomes less than or equal to the reduced-price standards would be eligible for free or reduced-price meals (the income standards for free meals shall
not
be included in letters or notices to such applicants);
(ii) How a participant's household may make application for free or reduced-price meals;
(iii) An explanation that an application for free or reduced price benefits cannot be approved unless it contains complete “documentation” as defined in § 226.2.
(iv) The statement: “In the operation of child feeding programs, no person will be discriminated against because of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability”;
(v) A statement to the effect that participants having family members who become unemployed are eligible for free or reduced-price meals during the period of unemployment, provided that the loss of income causes the family income during the period of unemployment to be within the eligibility standards for those meals;
(vi) An explanation that households receiving free and reduced-price meals must notify appropriate institution officials during the year of any decreases in household size or increases in income of over $50 per month or $600 per year or—
(A) In the case of households of enrolled children that provide a SNAP, FDPIR or TANF case number to establish a child's eligibility for free meals, any termination in the child's certification to participate in the SNAP, FDPIR or TANF Programs, or
(B) In the case of households of adult participants that provide a food stamp or FDPIR case number or an SSI or Medicaid assistance identification number to establish an adult's eligibility for free meals, any termination in the adult's certification to participate in the SNAP, FDPIR, SSI or Medicaid Programs.
(3) In addition to the information listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section pricing institutions must include in their letter to household an explanation that indicates that: (i) The information in the application may be verified at any time during the year; and (ii) how a family may appeal a decision of the institution to deny, reduce, or terminate benefits as described under the hearing procedure set forth in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(4)
Determination of eligibility.
The institution shall take the income information provided by the household on the application and calculate the household's total current income. When a completed application furnished by a family indicates that the family meets the eligibility criteria for free or reduced-price meals, the participants from that family shall be determined eligible for free or reduced-price meals. Institutions that are pricing programs shall promptly provide written notice to each family informing them of the results of the eligibility determinations. When the information furnished by the family is not complete or does not meet the eligibility criteria for free or reduced-price meals, institution officials must consider the participants from that family as not eligible for free or reduced-price meals, and must consider the participants as eligible for “paid” meals. When information furnished by the family of participants enrolled in a pricing program does not meet the eligibility criteria for free or reduced-price meals, pricing program officials shall provide written notice to each family denied free or reduced-price benefits. At a minimum, this notice shall include:
(i) The reason for the denial of benefits, e.g., income in excess of allowable limits or incomplete application;
(ii) Notification of the right to appeal;
(iii) Instructions on how to appeal; and
(iv) A statement reminding the household that they may reapply for free or reduced-price benefits at any time during the year,
The reasons for ineligibility shall be properly documented and retained on file at the institution.
(5)
Appeals of denied benefits.
A family that wishes to appeal the denial of an application in a pricing program shall do so under the hearing procedures established under paragraph (c)(4) of this section. However, prior to initiating the hearing procedures, the household may request a conference to provide all affected parties the opportunity to discuss the situation, present information and obtain an explanation of the data submitted on the application or the decision rendered. The request for a conference shall not in any way prejudice or diminish the right to a fair hearing. The institution shall promptly schedule a fair hearing, if requested.
(f) Free, reduced-price and paid meal eligibility figures must be reported by institutions to State agencies at least once each year and shall be based on current family-size and income information of enrolled participants. Such information shall be no more than 12 months old.
(g) Sponsoring organizations for family day care homes shall ensure that no
separate charge for food service is imposed on families of children enrolled in participating family day care homes.
(h)
Verification of eligibility.
State agencies shall conduct verification of eligibility for free and reduced-price meals on an annual basis, in accordance with the verification procedures outlined in paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section. Verification may be conducted in accordance with Program assistance requirements of § 226.6(m); however, the performance of verification for individual institutions shall occur no less frequently than once every three years. Any State may, with the written approval of FNSRO, use alternative approaches in the conduct of verification, provided that the results achieved meet the requirements of this part. If the verification process discloses deficiencies with the determination of eligibility and/or application procedures which exceed maximum levels established by FNS, State agencies shall conduct follow-up reviews for the purpose of determining that corrective action has been taken by the institution. These reviews shall be conducted within one year of the date the verification process was completed. The verification effort shall be applied without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability. State agencies shall maintain on file for review a description of the annual verification to be accomplished in order to demonstrate compliance with paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section.
(1)
Verification procedures for nonpricing programs.
Except for sponsoring organizations of family day care homes, State agency verification procedures for nonpricing programs shall consist of a review of all approved free and reduced price applications on file. For sponsoring organizations of family day care homes, State agency verification procedures shall consist of a review only of the approved free and reduced price applications (or other documentation, if vouchers or other documentation are used in lieu of free and reduced price applications) on file for those day care homes that are required to be reviewed when the sponsoring organization is reviewed, in accordance with the review requirements set forth in § 226.6(m). However, the State agency shall ensure that the day care homes selected for review are representative of the proportion of tier I, tier II, and tier II day care homes with a mix of income-eligible and non-income-eligible children in the sponsorship, and shall ensure that at least 10 percent of all free and reduced price applications (or other documentation, if applicable) on file for the sponsorship are verified. The review of applications shall ensure that:
(i) The application has been correctly and completely executed by the household;
(ii) The institution has correctly determined and classified the eligibility of enrolled participants for free or reduced price meals or, for family day care homes, for tier I or tier II reimbursement, based on the information included on the application submitted by the household;
(iii) The institution has accurately reported to the State agency the number of enrolled participants meeting the criteria for free or reduced price meal eligibility or, for day care homes, the number of participants meeting the criteria for tier I reimbursement, and the number of enrolled participants that do not meet the eligibility criteria for those meals; and
(iv) In addition, the State agency may conduct further verification of the information provided by the household on the approved application for program meal eligibility. If this effort is undertaken, the State agency shall conduct this further verification for nonpricing programs in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2)
Verification procedures for pricing programs.
(i) For pricing programs, in addition to the verification procedures described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, State agencies shall also conduct verification of the income information provided on the approved application for free and reduced price meals and, at State agency discretion, verification may also include confirmation of other information required on the application. However,
(A) If a SNAP, FDPIR or TANF case number is provided for a child,
verification for such child shall include only confirmation that the child is included in a currently certified SNAP or FDPIR household or is a TANF recipient; or
(B) If a SNAP or FDPIR case number or SSI or Medicaid assistance identification number is provided for an adult, verification for such adult shall include only confirmation that the adult is included in a currently certified SNAP or FDPIR household or is currently certified to receive SSI or Medicaid benefits.
(ii) State agencies shall perform verification on a random sample of no less than 3 percent of the approved free and reduced price applications in an institution which is a pricing program.
(iii) Households shall be informed in writing that they have been selected for verification and they are required to submit the requested verification information to confirm their eligibility for free or reduced-price benefits by such date as determined by the State agency. Those households shall be informed of the type or types of information and/or documents acceptable to the State agency and the name and phone number of an official who can answer questions and assist the household in the verification effort.
(iv) Households of enrolled children selected for verification shall also be informed that if they are currently certified to participate in SNAP, FDPIR or TANF they may submit proof of that certification in lieu of income information. In those cases, such proof shall consist of a current “Notice of Eligibility” for SNAP, FDPIR or TANF benefits or equivalent official documentation issued by a SNAP, Indian Tribal Organization, or welfare office which shows that the children are members of households or assistance units currently certified to participate in SNAP, FDPIR or TANF. An identification card for any of these programs is not acceptable as verification unless it contains an expiration date. Households of enrolled adults selected for verification shall also be informed that if they are currently certified to participate in SNAP or FDPIR or SSI or Medicaid Programs, they may submit proof of that certification in lieu of income information. In those cases, such proof shall consist of:
(A) A current “Notice of Eligibility” for SNAP or FDPIR benefits or equivalent official documentation issued by a SNAP, Indian Tribal Organization, or welfare office which shows that the adult participant is a member of a household currently certified to participate in the SNAP Program or FDPIR. An identification card is not acceptable as verification unless it contains an expiration date; or
(B) Official documentation issued by an appropriate SSI or Medicaid office which shows that the adult participant currently receives SSI or Medicaid assistance. An identification card is not acceptable as verification unless it contains an expiration date. All households selected for verification shall be advised that failure to cooperate with verification efforts will result in a termination of benefits.
(v) Sources of information for verification may include written evidence, collateral contacts, and/or systems of records.
(A)
Written evidence
shall be used as the primary source of information for verification. Written evidence includes written confirmation of a household's circumstances, such as wage stubs, award letters, letters from employers, and, for enrolled children, current certification to participate in the SNAP, FDPIR or TANF Programs, or, for adult participants, current certification to participate in the SNAP, FDPIR, SSI or Medicaid Programs. Whenever written evidence is insufficient to confirm eligibility, the State agency may use collateral contacts.
(B)
Collateral contact
is a verbal confirmation of a household's circumstances by a person outside of the household. The collateral contact may be made in person or by phone and shall be authorized by the household. The verifying official may select a collateral contact if the household fails to designate one or designates one which is unacceptable to the verifying official. If the verifying official designates a collateral contact, the contact shall not be made without providing written or oral notice to the household. At the time of this notice, the household shall be informed that it may consent to the
contact or provide acceptable verification in another form. The household shall be informed that its eligibility for free or reduced price meals shall be terminated if it refuses to choose one of these options. Termination shall be made in accordance with paragraph (h)(2)(vii) of this section. Collateral contacts could include employers, social service agencies, and migrant agencies.
(C)
Systems of records
to which the State agency may have routine access are not considered collateral contacts. Information concerning income, family size, or SNAP/FDPIR/TANF certification for enrolled children, or SNAP/FDPIR/SSI/Medicaid certification for enrolled adults, which is maintained by other government agencies and to which a State agency can legally gain access may be used to confirm a household's eligibility for Program meal benefits. One possible source could be wage and benefit information maintained by the State unemployment agency, if that information is available. The use of any information derived from other agencies must be used with applicable safeguards concerning disclosure.
(vi) Verification by State agencies of receipt of SNAP, FDPIR, TANF, SSI or Medicaid benefits shall be limited to a review to determine that the period of eligibility is current. If the benefit period is found to have expired, or if the household's certification has been terminated, the household shall be required to document their income eligibility.
(vii) The State agency may work with the institution to verify the documentation submitted by the household on the application; however, the responsibility to complete the verification process may not be delegated to the institution.
(viii) If a household refuses to cooperate with efforts to verify, or the verification of income indicates that the household is ineligible to receive benefits or is eligible to receive reduced benefits, the State agency shall require the pricing program institution to terminate or adjust eligibility in accordance with the following procedures. Institution officials shall immediately notify families of the denial of benefits in accordance with paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(5) of this section. Advance notification shall be provided to families which receive a reduction or termination of benefits 10 calendar days prior to the actual reduction or termination. The 10-day period shall begin the day the notice is transmitted to the family. The notice shall advise the household of: (A) The change; (B) the reasons for the change; (C) notification of the right to appeal the action and the date by which the appeal must be requested in order to avoid a reduction or termination of benefits; (D) instructions on how to appeal; and (E) the right to reapply at any time during the year. The reasons for ineligibility shall be properly documented and retained on file at the institution.
(ix) When a household disagrees with an adverse action which affects its benefits and requests a fair hearing, benefits shall be continued as follows while the household awaits the hearing:
(A) Households which have been approved for benefits and which are subject to a reduction or termination of benefits later in the same year shall receive continued benefits if they appeal the adverse action within the 10-day advance notice period; and
(B) Households which are denied benefits upon application shall not received benefits.
(3) State agencies shall inform institution officials of the results of the verification effort and the action which will be taken in response to the verification findings. This notification shall be made in accordance with the procedures outlined in § 226.14(a).
(4) If the verification results disclose that an institution has inaccurately classified or reported the number of participants eligible for free, reduced-price or paid meals, the State agency shall adjust institution rates of reimbursement retroactive to the month in which the incorrect eligibility figures were reported by the institution to the State agency.
(5) If the verification results disclose that a household has not reported accurate documentation on the application which would support continued eligibility for free or reduced-price
meals, the State agency shall immediately adjust institution rates of reimbursement. However, this rate adjustment shall not become effective until the affected households have been notified in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (h)(2)(vi) of this section and any ensuing appeals have been heard as specified in paragraph (h)(2)(viii) of this section.
(6)
Verification procedures for sponsoring organizations of day care homes.
Prior to approving an application for a day care home that qualifies as tier I day care home on the basis of the provider's household income, sponsoring organizations of day care homes shall conduct verification of such income in accordance with the procedures contained in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section. Sponsoring organizations of day care homes may verify the information on applications submitted by households of children enrolled in day care homes in accordance with the procedures contained in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section.
(i)
Disclosure of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information to certain programs and individuals without parental consent.
The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, may disclose aggregate information about children eligible for free and reduced price meals to any party without parental notification and consent when children cannot be identified through release of the aggregate data or by means of deduction. Additionally, the State agency or institution may disclose information that identifies children eligible for free and reduced price meals to the programs and the individuals specified in this paragraph (i) without parental/guardian consent. The State agency or child care institution that makes the free and reduced price meal eligibility determination is responsible for deciding whether to disclose program eligibility information.
(1)
Persons authorized to receive eligibility information.
Only persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in paragraphs (i)(2) or (i)(3) of this section may have access to children's free milk eligibility information, without parental consent. Persons considered directly connected with administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in paragraphs (i)(2) or (i)(3) of this section are Federal, State, or local program operators responsible for the ongoing operation of the program or activity or persons responsible for program compliance. Program operators may include persons responsible for carrying out program requirements and monitoring, reviewing, auditing, or investigating the program. Program operators may include contractors, to the extent those persons have a need to know the information for program administration or enforcement. Contractors may include evaluators, auditors, and others with whom Federal or State agencies and program operators contract with to assist in the administration or enforcement of their program in their behalf.
(2)
Disclosure of children's names and free or reduced price meal eligibility status.
The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental consent, only children's names and eligibility status (whether they are eligible for free meals or reduced price meals) to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of:
(i) A Federal education program;
(ii) A State health program or State education program administered by the State or local education agency;
(iii) A Federal, State, or local means-tested nutrition program with eligibility standards comparable to the National School Lunch Program (i.e., food assistance programs for households with incomes at or below 185 percent of the Federal poverty level); or
(iv) A third party contractor assisting in verification of eligibility efforts by contacting households who fail to respond to requests for verification of their eligibility.
(3)
Disclosure of all eligibility information.
In addition to children's names and eligibility status, the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental/guardian consent, all eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meal eligibility process (including all information on the application or obtained through direct certification) to:
(i) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966. This means that all eligibility information obtained for the Child and Adult Care Food Program may be disclosed to persons directly connected with administering or enforcing regulations under the National School Lunch Program, Special Milk Program, School Breakfast Program, Summer Food Service Program, and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) (Parts 210, 215, 220, 225 and 246, respectively, of this chapter);
(ii) The Comptroller General of the United States for purposes of audit and examination; and
(iii) Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of the programs listed in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section.
(4)
Use of free and reduced price meals eligibility information by programs other than Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).
State agencies and child care institutions may use children's free milk eligibility information for administering or enforcing the Child and Adult Care Food Program. Additionally, any other Federal, State, or local agency charged with administering or enforcing the Child and Adult Care Food Program may use the information for that purpose. Individuals and programs to which children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information has been disclosed under this section may use the information only in the administration or enforcement of the receiving program. No further disclosure of the information may be made.
(j)
Disclosure of children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information to Medicaid and/or SCHIP, unless parents decline.
Children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information only may be disclosed to Medicaid or SCHIP when both the State agency and the child care institution so elect, the parent/guardian does not decline to have their eligibility information disclosed and the other provisions described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section are met. The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, may disclose children's names, eligibility status (whether they are eligible for free or reduced price meals), and any other eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meal application or obtained through direct certification to persons directly connected with the administration of Medicaid or SCHIP. Persons directly connected to the administration of Medicaid and SCHIP are State employees and persons authorized under Federal and State Medicaid and SCHIP requirements to carry out initial processing of Medicaid or SCHIP applications or to make eligibility determinations for Medicaid or SCHIP.
(1) The State agency must ensure that:
(i) The child care institution and health insurance program officials have a written agreement that requires the health insurance program agency to use the eligibility information to seek to enroll children in Medicaid and SCHIP; and
(ii) Parents/guardians are notified that their eligibility information may be disclosed to Medicaid or SCHIP and given an opportunity to decline to have their children's eligibility information disclosed, prior to any disclosure.
(2)
Use of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information by Medicaid/SCHIP.
Medicaid and SCHIP agencies and health insurance program operators receiving children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information must use the information to seek to enroll children in Medicaid or SCHIP. The Medicaid and SCHIP enrollment process may include targeting and identifying children from low-income households who are potentially eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP for the purpose of seeking to enroll them in Medicaid or SCHIP. No further disclosure of the information may be made. Medicaid and SCHIP agencies and health insurance program operators also may verify children's eligibility in a program under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 or the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act.
(k)
Notifying households of potential uses and disclosures of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information.
Households must be informed that the information they provide on the free and reduced price meal application will be used to determine eligibility for free or reduced price meals and that their eligibility information may be disclosed to other programs.
(1) For disclosures to programs, other than Medicaid or SCHIP, that are permitted access to children's eligibility information, without parent/guardian consent, the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must notify parents/guardians at the time of application that their children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information may be disclosed. The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must add substantially the following statement to the statement required under paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(F) of this section, “We may share your eligibility information with education, health, and nutrition programs to help them evaluate, fund, or determine benefits for their programs; auditors for program reviews; and law enforcement officials to help them look into violations of program rules.” For children determined eligible for free meals through direct certification, the notice of potential disclosure may be included in the document informing parents/guardians of their children's eligibility for free meals through direct certification.
(2) For disclosure to Medicaid or SCHIP, the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must notify parents/guardians that their children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information will be disclosed to Medicaid and/or SCHIP unless the parent/guardian elects not to have their information disclosed and notifies the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, by a date specified by the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate. Only the parent or guardian who is a member of the household or family for purposes of the free and reduced price meal application may decline the disclosure of eligibility information to Medicaid or SCHIP. The notification must inform parents/guardians that they are not required to consent to the disclosure, that the information, if disclosed, will be used to identify eligible children and seek to enroll them in Medicaid or SCHIP, and that their decision will not affect their children's eligibility for free or reduced price meals. The notification may be included in the letter/notice to parents/guardians that accompanies the free and reduced price meal application, on the application itself or in a separate notice provided to parents/guardians. The notice must give parents/guardians adequate time to respond if they do not want their information disclosed. The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must add substantially the following statement to the statement required under paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(F) of this section, “We may share your information with Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program, unless you tell us not to. The information, if disclosed, will be used to identify eligible children and seek to enroll them in Medicaid or SCHIP.” For children determined eligible for free meals through direct certification, the notice of potential disclosure and opportunity to decline the disclosure may be included in the document informing parents/guardians of their children's eligibility for free meals through direct certification process.
(l)
Other disclosures.
State agencies and child care institutions that plan to use or disclose information about children eligible for free and reduced price meals in ways not specified in this section must obtain written consent from children's parents or guardians prior to the use or disclosure.
(1) The consent must identify the information that will be shared and how the information will be used.
(2) There must be a statement informing parents and guardians that failing to sign the consent will not affect the child's eligibility for free or reduced price meals and that the individuals or programs receiving the information will not share the information with any other entity or program.
(3) Parents/guardians must be permitted to limit the consent only to those programs with which they wish to share information.
(4) The consent statement must be signed and dated by the child's parent or guardian who is a member of the
household for purposes of the free and reduced price meal application.
(m)
Agreements with programs/individuals receiving children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information.
Agreements or Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) are recommended or required as follows:
(1) The State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, should have a written agreement or MOU with programs or individuals receiving eligibility information, prior to disclosing children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information. The agreement or MOU should include information similar to that required for disclosures to Medicaid and SCHIP specified in paragraph (m)(2) of this section.
(2) For disclosures to Medicaid or SCHIP, the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate, must have a written agreement with the State or local agency or agencies administering Medicaid or SCHIP prior to disclosing children's free or reduced price meal eligibility information to those agencies. At a minimum, the agreement must:
(i) Identify the health insurance program or health agency receiving children's eligibility information;
(ii) Describe the information that will be disclosed;
(iii) Require that the Medicaid or SCHIP agency use the information obtained and specify that the information must be used to seek to enroll children in Medicaid or SCHIP;
(iv) Require that the Medicaid or SCHIP agency describe how they will use the information obtained;
(v) Describe how the information will be protected from unauthorized uses and disclosures;
(vi) Describe the penalties for unauthorized disclosure; and
(vii) Be signed by both the Medicaid or SCHIP program or agency and the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate.
(n)
Penalties for unauthorized disclosure or misuse of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information.
In accordance with section 9(b)(6)(C) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(6)(C)), any individual who publishes, divulges, discloses or makes known in any manner, or to any extent not authorized by statute or this section, any information obtained under this section will be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for up to 1 year, or both.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 226.23, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart F—Food Service Equipment Provisions
§ 226.24
Property management requirements.
Institutions and administering agencies shall follow the policies and procedures governing title, use, and disposition of equipment obtained by purchase, whose cost was acquired in whole or part with food service equipment assistance funds in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable.
[48 FR 41142, Sept. 14, 1983, as amended at 71 FR 39519, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016]

# Subpart G—Other Provisions
§ 226.25
Other provisions.
(a)
Grant closeout procedures.
Grant closeout procedures for the Program shall be in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable.
(b)
State requirements.
Nothing contained in this part shall prevent a State agency from imposing additional requirements for participation in the Program which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part; however, any additional requirements shall be approved by FNSRO and may not deny the Program to an eligible institution.
(c)
Value of assistance.
The value of assistance to participants under the Program shall not be considered to be income or resources for any purposes under any Federal or State laws, including, but not limited to laws relating to taxation, welfare, and public assistance programs.
(d)
Maintenance of effort.
Expenditure of funds from State and local sources for the maintenance of food programs for children shall not be diminished as a result of funds received under the Act.
(e)
Fraud penalty.
Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property that are the subject of a grant or other form of assistance under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department or whoever receives, conceals, or retains such funds, assets, or property to his use or gain, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud shall, if such funds, assets, or property are of the value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, or, if such funds, assets, or property are of value of less than $100, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(f)
Claims adjustment authority.
The Secretary shall have the authority to determine the amount of, to settle, and to adjust any claim arising under the Program, and to compromise or deny such claim or any part thereof. The Secretary shall also have the authority to waive such claims if the Secretary determines that to do so would serve the purposes of the program. This provision shall not diminish the authority of the Attorney General of the United States under section 516 of title 28, U.S. Code, to conduct litigation on behalf of the United States.
(g)
Data collection related to organizations.
(1) Each State agency must collect data related to institutions that have an agreement with the State agency to participate in the program for each of Federal fiscal years 2006 through 2009, including those institutions that participated only for part of the fiscal year. Such data shall include:
(i) The name of each institution;
(ii) The city in which each participating institution was headquartered and the name of the state;
(iii) The amount of funds provided to the participating organization, i.e., the sum of the amount of federal funds reimbursed for operating and, where applicable, administrative costs; and
(iv) The type of participating organization, e.g., government agency, educational institution, for-profit organization, non-profit organization/secular, non-profit organization/faith-based, and “other.”
(2) On or before August 31, 2007, and each subsequent year through 2010, State agencies must report to FNS data as specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section for the prior Federal fiscal year. State agencies must submit this data in a format designated by FNS.
(h)
Program evaluations.
States, State agencies, institutions, facilities and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
(i)
Drinking water.
A child care institution or facility must offer and make potable drinking water available to children throughout the day.
(j)
Fines.
(1) An institution that is a school food authority may be subject to fines. The State agency may establish an assessment when it has determined that the institution or its facility has:
(i) Failed to correct severe mismanagement of the Program;
(ii) Disregarded a Program requirement of which the institution or its facility had been informed; or
(iii) Failed to correct repeated violations of Program requirements.
(2) FNS may direct the State agency to establish a fine against any institution when it has determined that the institution or its facility has committed one or more acts under paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(3) Funds used to pay a fine established under this paragraph must be derived from non-Federal sources. In calculating an assessment, the State agency must calculate the fine based on the amount of Program reimbursement earned by the institution or its facility for the most recent fiscal year for which full year data is available, provided that the fine does not exceed the equivalent of:
(i) For the first fine, 1 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year;
(ii) For the second fine, 5 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year; and
(iii) For the third or subsequent fine, 10 percent of the amount of meal reimbursement earned for the fiscal year.
(4) The State agency must inform FNS at least 30 days prior to establishing the fine under this paragraph. The State agency must send the institution written notification of the fine established under this paragraph and provide a copy of the notification to FNS. The notification must:
(i) Specify the violations or actions which constitute the basis for the fine and indicate the amount of the fine;
(ii) Inform the institution that it may appeal the fine and advise the institution of the appeal procedures established under § 226.6(k);
(iii) Indicate the effective date and payment procedures should the institution not exercise its right to appeal within the specified timeframe.
(5) Any institution subject to a fine under paragraph (j)(1) of this section may appeal the State agency's determination. In appealing a fine, the institution must submit to the State agency any pertinent information, explanation, or evidence addressing the Program violations identified by the State agency. Any institution seeking to appeal the State agency determination must follow State agency appeal procedures.
(6) The decision of the State agency review official is final and not subject to further administrative or judicial review. Failure to pay a fine established under this paragraph may be grounds for suspension or termination.
(7) Money received by the State agency as a result of a fine established under this paragraph against an institution and any interest charged in the collection of these fines must be remitted to FNS, and then remitted to the United States Treasury.
[47 FR 36527, Aug. 20, 1982, as amended at 53 FR 52597, Dec. 28, 1988; 54 FR 13049, Mar. 30, 1989; 69 FR 53547, Sept. 1, 2004; 71 FR 39519, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 24183, May 2, 2007; 76 FR 37982, June 29, 2011; 81 FR 24383, Apr. 25, 2016; 81 FR 66492, Sept. 28, 2016; 88 FR 57858, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.26
Program information.
Persons seeking information about this Program should contact their State administering agency or the appropriate FNSRO. The FNS website has contact information for State agencies at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/fns-contacts
and FNSROs at
https://www.fns.usda.gov/fns-regional-offices.
[88 FR 57858, Aug. 23, 2023]
§ 226.27
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
7 CFR section where requirements are described
Current OMB control number
226.3-226.4
0584-0055
226.6-226.10
0584-0055
226.14-226.16
0584-0055
226.23-226.24
0584-0055
[50 FR 53258, Dec. 31, 1985]
Pt. 226, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 226—Alternate Foods for Meals

# Alternate Protein Products

# A. What are the criteria for alternate protein products used in the Child and Adult Care Food Program?
1. An alternate protein product used in meals planned under the provisions in § 226.20 must meet all of the criteria in this section.
2. An alternate protein product whether used alone or in combination with meat or meat alternate must meet the following criteria:
a. The alternate protein product must be processed so that some portion of the non-protein constituents of the food is removed. These alternate protein products must be safe and suitable edible products produced from plant or animal sources.
b. The biological quality of the protein in the alternate protein product must be at least 80 percent that of casein, determined by performing a Protein Digestibility Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS).
c. The alternate protein product must contain at least 18 percent protein by weight when fully hydrated or formulated. (“When hydrated or formulated” refers to a dry alternate protein product and the amount of water, fat, oil, colors, flavors or any other substances which have been added).
d. Manufacturers supplying an alternate protein product to participating schools or institutions must provide documentation that the product meets the criteria in paragraphs A.2. through c of this appendix.
e. Manufacturers should provide information on the percent protein contained in the dry alternate protein product and on an as prepared basis.
f. For an alternate protein product mix, manufacturers should provide information on:
(1) The amount by weight of dry alternate protein product in the package;
(2) Hydration instructions; and
(3) Instructions on how to combine the mix with meat or other meat alternates.

# B. How are alternate protein products used in the Child and Adult Care Food Program?
1. Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use alternate protein products to fulfill all or part of the meat/meat alternate component discussed in § 226.20.
2. The following terms and conditions apply:
a. The alternate protein product may be used alone or in combination with other food ingredients. Examples of combination items are beef patties, beef crumbles, pizza topping, meat loaf, meat sauce, taco filling, burritos, and tuna salad.
b. Alternate protein products may be used in the dry form (nonhydrated), partially hydrated or fully hydrated form. The moisture content of the fully hydrated alternate protein product (if prepared from a dry concentrated form) must be such that the mixture will have a minimum of 18 percent protein by weight or equivalent amount for the dry or partially hydrated form (based on the level that would be provided if the product were fully hydrated).
C.
How are commercially prepared products used in the Child and Adult Care Food Program?
Schools, institutions, and service institutions may use a commercially prepared meat or meat alternate product combined with alternate protein products or use a commercially prepared product that contains only alternate protein products.
[65 FR 12442, Mar. 9, 2000]
Appendix B to Part 226 [Reserved]
Pt. 226, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 226—Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program
1. The Child Nutrition (CN) Labeling Program is a voluntary technical assistance program administered by the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) in conjunction with the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), and Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and National Marine Fisheries Service of the U.S. Department of Commerce (USDC) for the Child Nutrition Programs. This program essentially involves the review of a manufacturer's recipe or product formulation to determine the contribution a serving of a commercially prepared product makes toward meal pattern requirements and a review of the CN label statement to ensure its accuracy. CN labeled products must be produced in accordance with all requirements set forth in this rule.
2. Products eligible for CN labels are as follows:
(a) Commercially prepared food products that contribute significantly to the meat/meat alternate component of meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, 225.21, and 226.20 and are served in the main dish.
(b) Juice drinks and juice drink products that contain a minimum of 50 percent full-strength juice by volume.
3. For the purpose of this appendix the following definitions apply:
(a)
CN label
is a food product label that contains a CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) below.
(b) The
CN logo
(as shown below) is a distinct border which is used around the edges of a “CN label statement” as defined in paragraph 3(c).
EC17SE91.009
(c) The
CN label statement
includes the following:
(1) The product identification number (assigned by FNS),
(2) The statement of the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, 220.8, 225.21, and 226.20. The statement shall identify the contribution of a specific portion of a meat/meat alternate product toward the meat/meat alternate, bread/bread alternate, and/or vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements. For juice drinks and juice drink products the statement shall identify their contribution toward the vegetable/fruit component of the meal pattern requirements,
(3) Statement specifying that the use of the CN logo and CN statement was authorized by FNS, and
(4) The approval date.
For example:
EC17SE91.010
(d)
Federal inspection
means inspection of food products by FSIS, AMS or USDC.
4. Food processors or manufacturers may use the CN label statement and CN logo as defined in paragraph 3 (b) and (c) under the following terms and conditions:
(a) The CN label must be reviewed and approved at the national level by the Food and Nutrition Service and appropriate USDA or USDC Federal agency responsible for the inspection of the product.
(b) The CN labeled product must be produced under Federal inspection by USDA or USDC. The Federal inspection must be performed in accordance with an approved partial or total quality control program or standards established by the appropriate Federal inspection service.
(c) The CN label statement must be printed as an integral part of the product label along with the product name, ingredient listing, the inspection shield or mark for the appropriate inspection program, the establishment number where appropriate, and the manufacturer's or distributor's name and address.
(1) The inspection marking for CN labeled non-meat, non-poultry, and non-seafood products with the exception of juice drinks and juice drink products is established as follows:
EC17SE91.011
(d) Yields for determining the product's contribution toward meal pattern requirements must be calculated using the
Food Buying Guide for Child Nutrition Programs
(Program Aid Number 1331).
5. In the event a company uses the CN logo and CN label statement inappropriately, the company will be directed to discontinue the use of the logo and statement and the matter will be referred to the appropriate agency for action to be taken against the company.
6. Products that bear a CN label statement as set forth in paragraph 3(c) carry a warranty. This means that if a food service authority participating in the child nutrition programs purchases a CN labeled product and uses it in accordance with the manufacturer's directions, the school or institution will not have an audit claim filed against it for the CN labeled product for noncompliance with the meal pattern requirements of 7 CFR 210.10, 220.8, 225.21, and 226.20. If a State or Federal auditor finds that a product that is CN labeled does not actually meet the meal pattern requirements claimed on the label, the auditor will report this finding to FNS. FNS will prepare a report of the findings and send it to the appropriate divisions of FSIS and AMS of the USDA, National Marine Fisheries Services of the USDC, Food and Drug Administration, or the Department of Justice for action against the company.
Any or all of the following courses of action may be taken:
(a) The company's CN label may be revoked for a specific period of time;
(b) The appropriate agency may pursue a misbranding or mislabeling action against the company producing the product;
(c) The company's name will be circulated to regional FNS offices;
(d) FNS will require the food service program involved to notify the State agency of the labeling violation.
7. FNS is authorized to issue operational policies, procedures, and instructions for the CN Labeling Program.
To apply for a CN label and to obtain additional information on CN label application procedures write to: CN Labels, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition
Service, Nutrition and Technical Services Division, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Virginia 22302.
[49 FR 18457, May 1, 1984; 49 FR 45109, Nov. 15, 1984]
Pt. 227

# PART 227—NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
227.1
General purpose and scope.
227.2
Definitions.
227.3
Administration.
227.4
Application and agreement.
227.5
Program funding.

# Subpart B—State Agency Provisions
227.30
Responsibilities of State agencies.
227.31
Audits, management reviews, and evaluations.

# Subpart C—State Coordinator Provisions
227.35
Responsibilities of State coordinator.
227.36
Requirements of needs assessment.
227.37
State plan for nutrition education and training.

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
227.40
Program information.
227.41
Recovery of funds.
227.42
Grant closeout procedures.
227.43
Participation of adults.
227.44
Management evaluations and reviews.
Appendix to Part 227—Apportionment of Funds for Nutrition Education and Training

# Authority:
Sec. 15, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1340 (42 U.S.C. 1788), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 227.1
General purpose and scope.
The purpose of these regulations is to implement section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act (added by Pub. L. 95-166, effective November 10, 1977) which authorizes the Secretary to formulate and carry out a nutrition information and education program through a system of grants to State agencies to provide for (a) the nutritional training of educational and foodservice personnel, (b) the foodservice management training of school foodservice personnel, and (c) the conduct of nutrition education activities in schools and child care institutions. To the maximum extent possible, the Program shall fully utilize the child nutrition programs as a learning experience.
§ 227.2
Definitions.
(a)
Administrative costs
means costs allowable under Federal Management Circular 74-4, other than program costs, incurred by a State agency for overall administrative and supervisory purposes, including, but not limited to, costs of financial management, data processing, recordkeeping and reporting, personnel management, and supervising the State Coordinator.
(b)
Child Care Food Program
means the program authorized by section 17 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended.
(c)
Child Nutrition Programs
means any or all of the following: National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program, Child Care Food Program.
(d)
Commodity only school
means a school which has entered into an agreement under § 210.15a(b) of this subchapter to receive commodities donated under part 250 of this chapter for a nonprofit lunch program.
(e)
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(f)
Federal fiscal year
means a period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1 of any calendar year and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
(g)
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.
(h)
FNSRO
means the appropriate Regional Office of the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.
(i)
Institution
means any licensed, nonschool, public or private nonprofit organization providing day care services where children are not maintained in permanent residence, including but not limited to day care centers, settlement houses, after school recreation centers, neighborhood centers, Head Start centers, and organizations providing day care services for handicapped children and includes a sponsoring organization under the Child Care Food Program regulations.
(j)
National School Lunch Program
means the lunch program authorized by the National School Lunch Act.
(k)
Needs assessment
means a systematic process for delineating the scope, extent (quantity), reach and success of any current nutrition education activities, including those relating to:
(1) Methods and materials available inside and outside the classroom;
(2) Training of teachers in the principles of nutrition and in nutrition education strategies, methods, and techniques;
(3) Training of school foodservice personnel in the principles and practices of foodservice management; and
(4) Compilation of existing data concerning factors impacting on nutrition education and training such as statistics on child health and competency levels achieved by foodservice personnel.
(l)
Program costs
means costs, other than administrative costs, incurred in connection with any or all of the following:
(1) The State Coordinator's salary, and related support personnel costs, including fringe benefits and travel expenses;
(2) Applying for assessment and planning funds;
(3) The conduct of the needs assessment;
(4) The development of the State Plan; and
(5) The implementation of the approved State Plan, including related support services.
(m)
Program
means the Nutrition Education and Training Program authorized by section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.
(n)
School
means:
(1) An educational unit of high school grade or under operating under public or nonprofit private ownership in a single building or complex of buildings. The term “high school grade or under” includes classes of preprimary grade when they are conducted in a school having classes of primary or higher grade, or when they are recognized as a part of the educational system in the State, regardless of whether such preprimary grade classes are conducted in a school having classes of primary or higher grade.
(2) With the exception of residential summer camps which participate in the Summer Food Service Program for Children and private foster homes, any distinct part of a public or nonprofit private institution or any public or nonprofit private child care institution, which (i) maintains children in residence, (ii) operates principally for the care of children and (iii) if private, is licensed to provide residential child care services under the appropriate licensing code by the State or a subordinate level of government. The term “child care institution” includes, but is not limited to: Homes for the mentally retarded, the emotionally disturbed, the physically handicapped, and unmarried mothers and their infants; group homes; halfway houses; orphanages; temporary shelters for abused children and for runaway children; long term care facilities of chronically ill children; and juvenile detention centers.
(3) With respect to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, non-profit child care centers certified as such by the Governor of Puerto Rico.
(o)
School Breakfast Program
means the program authorized by section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.
(p)
Foodservice personnel
means those individuals responsible for planning, preparing, serving and otherwise operating foodservice programs funded by USDA grants as provided for in the National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
(q)
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
(r)
State agency
means the State educational agency.
(s)
State educational agency
means, as the State legislature may determine:
(1) The Chief State School Officer (such as the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Commissioner of Education, or similar officer), or (2) a board of education controlling the State Department of Education.
§ 227.3
Administration.
(a) Within the Department, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program.
(b) Within the States, responsibility for administration of the Program shall be in the State agency, except that FNSRO shall administer the Program with respect to nonprofit private schools or institutions in any State where the State agency is prohibited by law from administering the Program in nonprofit private schools or institutions.
§ 227.4
Application and agreement.
After the initial fiscal year of participation each State agency desiring to take part in the Program shall enter into a written agreement with the Department for the administration of the Program in accordance with the provisions of this part. The State agency shall execute Form FNS-74, which shall constitute the written agreement.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0062)
(44 U.S.C. 3506)
[44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 746, Jan. 2, 1982]
§ 227.5
Program funding.
(a)
Total grant.
The total grant to each State agency for each fiscal year for program costs and administrative costs shall consist of an amount equal to 50 cents per child enrolled in schools and institutions within the State during such year, but in no event shall such grant be less than $50,000:
Provided, however,
That a State's total grant shall be reduced proportionately if the State does not administer the program in nonprofit private schools and institutions. If funds appropriated for a fiscal year are insufficient to pay the amount to which each State is entitled, the amount of such grant shall be ratably reduced to the extent necessary so that the total of the amounts paid to each State does not exceed the amount of appropriated funds. Each State agency which receives funds based on all children enrolled in public and nonprofit private schools and institutions shall make the Program available to those schools and institutions. Enrollment figures shall be the latest available as certified by the Department of Education.
(b)
First fiscal year participation
—(1)
Assessment and planning grant.
A portion of the total grant shall be made available to each State agency during its first fiscal year of participation as an assessment and planning grant for:
(i) Employing a State Coordinator, as provided for in § 227.30, and related support personnel costs including fringe benefits and travel expenses,
(ii) Undertaking a needs assessment in the State,
(iii) Developing a State Plan for nutrition education and training within the State, and
(iv) Applying for the State assessment and planning grant.
(2)
Advances for the assessment and planning grant.
FNS shall make advances to any State desiring to participate in the Program, to enable the State to carry out the responsibilities set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Advances shall be made in two phases, in accordance with the following procedures:
(i) Initially, State agencies may receive an advance up to $35,000 for the purpose of hiring a State coordinator, as provided for in § 227.30. Application for such an advance shall be made on Form AD-623 when the State agency applies for participation in the Program. The information required for this advance shall be set out in Part III, Budget Information, Section B, Budget Categories. The State agency shall there indicate the funds required for the salary, travel, and fringe benefits of the State Coordinator, and related personnel costs necessary to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the State Coordinator.
(ii) After appointment of the State Coordinator, the State agency may receive an additional advance of up to 50 percent of the total grant to which the State agency is entitled for the first year of participation, after deduction of the advance made for the State Coordinator under § 227.5(b)(2), but not to exceed $100,000, for the purpose of undertaking a needs assessment in the State, developing a State Plan for nutrition education and training, and applying for the assessment and planning grant. Application for such advance
shall be made by amending Part III, Budget Information, of Form AD-623.
(3)
Funds for implementing State plan.
(i) States receiving advances. Each State agency shall receive the remaining portion of its total grant in order to implement its State plan, which has been approved by FNS, if the State agency has carried out the responsibilities for which advances were received. With the submission of the State plan each State agency may apply for the funds remaining of its total grant.
(ii) States previously participating. Those States which previously participated may apply for their total grant upon submission of the State Plan.
(c)
Administrative costs.
Each State agency may use up to 15 percent of its total grant for up to 50 percent of its cash expenditures for administrative costs.
(d)
Payment to State agencies.
Approval of the State plan by FNS is a prerequisite to the payment of funds to the State agency. All funds made available for the Program shall be provided through a letter of credit or check, as determined by FNS.
(e)
Unobligated funds.
The State agency will release to FNS any Federal funds made available to it under the Program which are unobligated by September 30 of each fiscal year.
(f)
Funds for existing programs.
State agencies shall maintain their present level of funding for existing nutrition education and training programs. FNS funds for the Program shall augment current nutrition education and training programs and projects. Funds made available by FNS for this Program shall not replace such funds.
[44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, as amended at 52 FR 8223, Mar. 17, 1987]

# Subpart B—State Agency Provisions
§ 227.30
Responsibilities of State agencies.
(a)
General.
Except to the extent that it would be inconsistent with this part, the Program shall be administered in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Departmental regulations 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable.
(b)
Application.
For the initial fiscal year of participation States shall make application for administration of the Program on Form and are responsible for amending Form AD-623 to request advance funding. In the initial application, in connection with the request for advance funding for the State Coordinator, part IV, Program Narrative, of Form AD-623 shall indicate the State agency's procedures for hiring a State Coordinator and contain a justification for the dollar value of salary requested. The narrative shall also indicate the time frame for hiring the State Coordinator. In amending Form AD-623 in connection with the request for advance funding for the remaining portion of the assessment and planning grant, part IV, Program Narrative, shall set forth the details for areas of the assessment and planning grant, other than employment of the State Coordinator.
(b-1) If any State does not apply for participation in the Program, by April 1 of a fiscal year by submitting Form AD 623 as required in §§ 227.30(b) and 227.5(b)(2)(i), the State's share of the funds shall be provided to the remaining States, so long as this does not take the remaining States' grants above 50 cents per child enrolled in schools or institutions, except in those States which receive a minimum grant of $75,000 for a fiscal year.
(c)
State Coordinator.
After execution of the agreement the State agency shall appoint a nutrition education specialist to serve as a State Coordinator for the Program who may be employed on a full-time or part-time basis. The State Coordinator may be a State employee who reports directly or indirectly to the Chief State School Officer or an individual under contract with the State agency to serve as the State Coordinator. A State agency shall not contract with an organization to provide for the services of a State Coordinator. The State Coordinator, at a minimum, shall meet both of the following requirements:
(1) The State Coordinator shall have a Masters degree or equivalent experience. Equivalent experience is experience related to the position being filled or as defined by State civil service or
personnel policies. If the Masters degree is not in foods and nutrition or dietetics, the Bachelors degree shall include academic preparations in foods and nutrition or dietetics.
(2) In addition, the State Coordinator shall have recognized and demonstrated skills in management and education through at least three years experience in one or more of these areas: Elementary or secondary education, but not limited to classroom teaching; foodservice management and training for adults; community nutrition or public health programs; foodservice operations for children; or community action or assistance programs.
(d)
Needs assessment.
Each State agency shall conduct an ongoing needs assessment in accordance with § 227.36 The needs assessment shall be the data base utilized in formulating the State plan for each fiscal year. For the first year of participation a State agency may apply for funds in order to carry out the needs assessment in accordance with § 227.5.
(e)
Developing and submitting the State plan.
Each State agency shall submit to the Secretary a State plan for Nutrition Education and Training in accordance with § 227.37 prior to the beginning of each fiscal year. The date of submission for the State plan shall be designated by the Secretary. The Secretary shall act on the submitted State plan within 60 days after it is received. For the first year of participation the State agency shall submit to the Secretary, within nine months after the award of the planning and assessment grant, a State plan for nutrition education and training in accordance with § 227.37.
(f)
Records and reports.
(1) Each State agency shall maintain full and complete records concerning Program operations and shall retain such records in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(2) Each State agency shall submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report, FNS-777, as required 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(3) Each State agency shall submit an annual performance report (Form FNS-42) to FNS within 30 days after the close of the Fiscal Year.
(4) Each State agency shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(5) Each State agency shall comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, for property management and the procurement of supplies, equipment and other services with these Program funds.
(6) Any income accruing to a State or local agency because of the Program shall be used in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(g)
Nondiscrimination.
Each State agency shall ensure that Program operations are in compliance with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations (part 15 of this title) issued under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0062)
(44 U.S.C. 3506; E.O. 12372, July 14, 1982, 47 FR 30959, sec. 401(b) of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 (31 U.S.C. 6506(c))
[44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 14842, Mar. 7, 1980; 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; 47 FR 22072, May 21, 1982; 48 FR 29123, June 24, 1983; 48 FR 39213, Aug. 30, 1983; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 227.31
Audits, management reviews, and evaluations.
(a)
Audits.
(1) Examinations by the State agencies in the form of audits or internal audits shall be performed in accord with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement.
(b)
Management reviews.
The State agency is responsible for meeting the following requirements:
(1) The State agency shall establish management evaluation and review procedures to monitor compliance with the State plan for local educational agencies and land grant colleges, other institutions of higher education and public or private nonprofit educational or research agencies, institutions, or organizations.
(2) The State agency shall require participating agencies to establish program review procedures to be used in reviewing the Agencies operations and those of subsidiaries or contractors.
(c)
Evaluations.
The State agency shall conduct formal evaluations of program activities at least annually. These evaluations shall be aimed at assessing the effectiveness of the various activities undertaken by the State and local agencies. State officials shall analyze why some activities have proved effective while others have not and shall initiate appropriate improvements. The results of the evaluations shall be used to make adjustments in ongoing activities and to plan activities and programs for the next year's State plan. The State agency shall submit a plan for evaluation of Program activities as part of the State plan in accordance with § 227.37(b)(14).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0062)
(44 U.S.C. 3506; E.O. 12372 (July 14, 1982, 47 FR 30959); sec. 401(b) Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 (31 U.S.C. 6506(c))
[44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; 48 FR 29123, June 24, 1983; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]

# Subpart C—State Coordinator Provisions
§ 227.35
Responsibilities of State coordinator.
At a minimum, the State Coordinator shall be responsible for:
(a) Preparation of a budget,
(b) The conduct of the needs assessment,
(c) Development of a State plan,
(d) Implementation of the approved State Plan,
(e) Evaluation of the progress and implementation of the State Plan,
(f) Coordination of the Program with the Child Nutrition Programs at the State and local levels,
(g) Coordination of the Program with other nutrition education and training programs conducted with Federal or State funds,
(h) Communication of needs and accomplishments of State nutrition education and training programs to parents and the community at large,
(i) Use of Program funds in compliance with all regulations, instructions, or other guidance material provided by FNS,
(j) Coordinating the submission and preparation of the Program financial status report (FNS-777), and
(k) Annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the State Plan.
[44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, as amended at 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14173, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 227.36
Requirements of needs assessment.
(a) The needs assessment is an ongoing process which identifies the discrepancies between “what should be” and “what is” and shall be applied to each category listed below to enable State agencies to determine their nutrition education and training needs for each year. The needs assessment shall identify the following as a minimum:
(1) Children, teachers, and food service personnel in need of nutrition education and training;
(2) Existing State or federally funded nutrition education and training programs including their:
(i) Goals and objectives;
(ii) Source and level of funding;
(iii) Any available documentation of their relative success or failure; and
(iv) Factors contributing to their success or failure;
(3) Offices or agencies at the State and local level designated to be responsible for nutrition education and training of teachers and school food service personnel;
(4) Any relevant State nutrition education mandates;
(5) Funding levels at the State and local level for preservice and inservice nutrition education and training of food service personnel and teachers;
(6) State and local individuals, and groups conducting nutrition education and training;
(7) Materials which are currently available for nutrition education and training programs, and determine for each:
(i) Subject area and content covered;
(ii) Grade level;
(iii) How utilized;
(iv) Acceptability by user;
(v) Currency of materials;
(8) Any major child nutrition related health problems in each State;
(9) Existing sources of primary and secondary data, including any data that has been collected for documenting the State's nutrition education and training needs;
(10) Available documentation of the competencies of teachers in the area of nutrition education;
(11) Available documentation of the competencies of food service personnel;
(12) Problems encountered by schools and institutions in procuring nutritious food economically and in preparing nutritious appetizing meals and areas where training can assist in alleviating these problems;
(13) Problems teachers encounter in conducting effective nutrition education activities and areas where inservice training or materials can assist in alleviating these problems;
(14) Problems in dietary habits of children and areas where nutrition education may assist in positive changes;
(15) Problems encountered in coordinating the nutrition education by teachers with the meal preparation and activities of the food service facility and areas where training might alleviate these problems.
(b) The needs assessment should be an ongoing process and provide not only data on current activities but also a description of the problems and needs in each category and whether training or materials would help alleviate the identified problems.
§ 227.37
State plan for nutrition education and training.
(a)
General.
Each fiscal year the State agency shall submit a State plan for Nutrition Education and Training for approval to FNS. The State plan shall be based on the needs identified from the ongoing needs assessment and evaluation of the State plans from previous years. The State plan shall be submitted in accordance with § 227.30(e). Guidance for the preparation and submission of the State plan shall be provided by FNS.
(b)
Requirements for the State plan.
The State plan shall provide the following:
(1) Description of the ongoing needs assessment conducted within the State;
(2) The findings of the needs assessment within the State used to determine the goals and objectives of the State plan and results of the evaluation of the previous years' State plans for:
(i) Inservice training of food service personnel,
(ii) Nutrition education of children,
(iii) Inservice training in nutrition education for teachers;
(3) Goals and objectives of the State plan;
(4) Identification of the priority populations to be reached during the fiscal year;
(5) Provisions for coordinating the nutrition education and training programs carried out with funds made available under this part with any related publicly supported programs being carried out within the State to include:
(i) Identification of existing programs that may be utilized,
(ii) Description of how representatives of such groups are to be involved in the planning and implementation of the State program;
(iii) Criteria and procedure for selection of such representatives;
(6) Plans to solicit advice and recommendations of the National Advisory Council on Child Nutrition, State educational or other appropriate agencies; the U.S. Department of Education; the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; and other interested groups and individuals concerned with improvement of child nutrition.
(7) Plans, including a timetable, for reaching all children in the State with instruction in the nutritional value of foods and the relationship among food, nutrition and health, for inservice training of food service personnel in the principles and skills of food service management and nutrition and for inservice instruction for teachers in sound principles of nutrition education;
(8) Any plans for using, on a priority basis, the resources of the land-grant colleges eligible to receive funds under the Act of July 2, 1862 (12 Stat. 503; 7 U.S.C. 301 through 305, 307, and 308) or
the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 417, as amended; 7 U.S.C. 312 through 326 and 328), including the Tuskegee Institute;
(9) A brief description of the program or activities to be contracted with land-grant colleges, described above, and other institutions of higher education, and other public or private nonprofit educational or research agencies, institutions or organizations for carrying out nutrition education and training activities;
(10) A brief description of pilot projects, including objectives, subject matter and expected outcomes, to be contracted with the land-grant colleges described above, other institutions of higher education, public and nonprofit educational or research agencies, institutions, or organizations for but not limited to projects for development, demonstration, testing and evaluation of curricula for use in early childhood, elementary, and secondary education programs;
(11) Identification of schools, school districts, and sponsoring agencies which may agree to participate in the nutrition education and training program;
(12) A brief description of (i) State agency sponsored pilot projects including objectives, subject matter and anticipated outcomes and (ii) nutrition education and training programs to be conducted by schools, school districts, and sponsoring agencies receiving funds under this provision including objectives, subject matter and expected outcomes;
(13) Time frame and milestones for implementation of State plans;
(14) Plans to evaluate program activities including an evaluation component for each objective of the State plan;
(15) Description of staff available to perform State agency responsibilities of the State nutrition education and training program which includes:
(i) Definition of duties and responsibilities,
(ii) Minimum professional qualifications,
(iii) Number and classification of personnel;
(16) A description of the procedures used to comply with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, including racial and ethnic participation data collection, public notification procedures and the annual civil rights compliance review process;
(17) Plans for the conduct of audits in accordance with § 227.31;
(18) A budget detailing the use of program funds;
(19) Description of the financial management system in accordance with § 227.30(e);
(20) Description of the management evaluation and review procedures established in accordance with § 227.31(b); and
(21) Other components that the States determine necessary.
(c) States eligible to receive additional funds pursuant to § 227.30(b-1) shall submit an amendment to the State plan to the Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office for prior approval.
[44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 14842, Mar. 7, 1980; 48 FR 39213, Aug. 30, 1983]

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
§ 227.40
Program information.
Persons desiring information concerning the program may write to the appropriate State agency or Regional Office of FNS as indicated below:
(a) In the States of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont: New England Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 33 North Avenue, Burlington, Mass. 01803.
(b) In the States of Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Virginia, Virgin Islands, and West Virginia: Mid-Atlantic Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, One Vahlsing Center, Robbinsville, N.J. 08691.
(c) In the States of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee: Southeast Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1100 Spring Street NW., Atlanta, Ga. 30309.
(d) In the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin: Midwest Regional Office, FNS,
U.S. Department of Agriculture, 536 South Clark Street, Chicago, Ill. 60605.
(e) In the States of Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming: Mountain Plains Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 2420 West 26th Avenue, Room 430D, Denver, Colo. 80211.
(f) In the States of Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas: Southwest Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1100 Commerce Street, Room 5-C-30, Dallas, Tex. 75242.
(g) In the States of Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Washington: Western Regional Office, FNS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 550 Kearny Street, Room 400, San Francisco, Calif. 94108.
§ 227.41
Recovery of funds.
(a) FNS may recover funds from a State agency under any of the following conditions:
(1) If FNS determines, through a review of the State agency's reports, program, or financial analysis, monitoring, audit or otherwise, that the State agency's performance is inadequate or that the State agency has failed to comply with this part or FNS instructions and guidelines.
(2) If FNS determines that the State agency is not expending funds at a rate commensurate with the amount of funds distributed or provided for expenditure under the program.
(3) If FNS determines that a State agency is not providing full and timely reports.
(b) FNS shall effect such recoveries of funds through adjustments in the amount of funds provided under the program.
§ 227.42
Grant closeout procedures.
The requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, are applicable in the termination of any grant under this part.
[44 FR 28282, May 15, 1979, as amended at 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 227.43
Participation of adults.
Nothing in this part shall prohibit a State or local educational agency from making available or distributing to adults education materials, resources, activities or programs authorized by this part.
§ 227.44
Management evaluations and reviews.
FNS shall establish evaluation procedures to determine whether State agencies carry out the purpose and provisions of this part, the State agency plan and FNS guidelines and instructions. To the maximum extent possible the State's performance shall be reviewed and evaluated by FNS on a regular basis including the use of public hearings.
Pt. 227, App.

# Appendix to Part 227—Apportionment of Funds for Nutrition Education and Training
Pursuant to sections 19(j) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1788), funds available for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980, are apportioned among the States as follows:

# [See footnotes at the end of Table.]
State
Public schools
1
Private schools
2
Residential child care institutions
3
Nonresidential child care institutions
4
Total
5
Connecticut
231,069
38,488
1,260
2,866
273,683
Maine
93,406
6,538
387
808
101,139
Massachusetts
420,866
68,337
2,697
5,352
497,252
New Hampshire
67,087
7,978
331
1,160
76,556
Rhode Island
62,521
12,570
304
767
76,162
Vermont
39,419
3,814
247
579
75,000
914,368
137,725
5,226
11,532
1,099,792
Delaware
43,210
7,277
107
1,339
75,000
District of Columbia
44,309
7,511
447
2,458
75,000
Maryland
315,196
51,992
1,292
5,234
373,714
New Jersey
520,438
117,060
3,930
8,588
650,016
New York
1,204,026
274,593
14,068
19,756
1,512,443
Pennsylvania
796,518
182,089
9,026
7,312
994,945
Puerto Rico
280,750
36,776
0
0
317,526
Virginia
410,660
34,947
6,239
6,068
457,914
Virgin Islands
9,783
2,452
11
0
75,000
West Virginia
154,000
4,942
770
854
160,566
3,778,890
719,639
35,890
51,609
4,692,124
Alabama
296,412
21,949
892
10,607
329,860
Florida
589,122
57,440
2,116
19,074
667,752
Georgia
5
424,042
27,708
2,783
14,806
469,339
Kentucky
269,690
27,786
3,685
3,652
304,813
Mississippi
192,134
25,802
541
12,175
230,652
North Carolina
452,523
22,104
3,052
19,722
497,401
South Carolina
5
243,200
19,225
1,255
6,559
270,239
Tennessee
339,753
17,396
1,448
7,847
366,444
2,806,876
219,410
15,772
94,442
3,136,500
Illinois
793,671
160,491
5,343
15,971
975,476
Indiana
433,267
39,967
2,814
5,279
481,327
Michigan
747,374
85,655
3,069
7,817
843,915
Minnesota
314,333
38,994
1,245
3,135
357,707
Ohio
818,192
110,561
5,836
10,767
945,356
Wisconsin
344,962
73,707
1,922
3,579
424,170
3,451,799
509,375
20,229
46,548
4,027,951
Arkansas
177,730
8,095
385
4,453
190,663
Louisiana
317,817
64,562
1,551
6,307
390,237
New Mexico
108,673
5,448
235
2,619
116,975
Oklahoma
229,166
3,969
1,916
8,639
243,690
Texas
1,115,829
52,654
4,163
38,934
1,211,580
1,949,215
134,728
8,250
60,952
2,153,145
Colorado
5
217,264
15,800
937
4,399
238,400
Iowa
221,255
25,957
3,204
2,631
253,047
Kansas
168,720
12,765
330
1,062
182,877
Missouri
350,248
54,950
1,271
6,629
413,098
Montana
63,950
3,425
75
677
75,000
Nebraska
115,891
17,629
376
1,694
135,590
North Dakota
5
47,486
4,826
309
383
75,000
South Dakota
53,792
5,760
267
390
75,000
Utah
126,488
1,518
541
1,325
129,872
Wyoming
36,709
1,206
74
497
75,000
1,401,803
143,836
7,384
19,687
1,652,884
Alaska
35,308
739
310
392
75,000
Samoa
3,616
778
0
0
75,000
Arizona
198,407
21,871
661
4,712
225,651
California
1,629,801
170,376
28,777
44,277
1,873,231
Guam
11,118
1,985
0
0
75,000
Hawaii
66,454
13,348
1,854
3,352
85,008
Idaho
79,009
1,868
119
860
81,856
Nevada
56,927
2,179
473
1,643
75,000
Oregon
183,441
9,379
859
3,703
197,382
Trust Territory
11,590
0
0
0
75,000
Washington
299,362
17,318
2,140
5,656
324,476
N Marianas
1,945
0
0
0
75,000
2,576,978
239,841
35,193
64,595
3,237,604
16,879,929
2,104,554
127,944
349,365
20,000,000
1
Sources: (1) U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Education Division, NCES,
Statistics of Public Schools, Fall 1977,
prepublication data, Table 5 for States and areas, except (2) Northern Marianas and Trust Territory, 1975-76 data from Department of Interior, adjust to include pre-school; Puerto Rico and Guam, Fall 1976 data.
2
U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Education Division, (NCES). Digest of Education Statistics, 1976, Table 46, p. 47, Northern Marianas and Trust Territory 1975-76 data from Department of Interior, adjust to include pre-school.
3
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, Annual Report of Meal Service in Schools (Form FNS-47), October 1978.
4
U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare,
Day Care Centers In the U.S.; A National Profile 1976-77,
Volume 3 of the Final Report of the National Day Care Study, Table 63.
5
A portion of these funds will be withheld from the States' allocations for use by FNS in administering the Program in nonprofit private schools or institutions.
[44 FR 70451, Dec. 7, 1979]
Pt. 235

# PART 235—STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE FUNDS
Sec.
235.1
General purpose and scope.
235.2
Definitions.
235.3
Administration.
235.4
Allocation of funds to States.
235.5
Payments to States.
235.6
Use of funds.
235.7
Records and reports.
235.8
Management evaluations and audits.
235.9
Procurement and property management standards.
235.10
[Reserved]
235.11
Other provisions.
235.12
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.

# Authority:
Secs. 7 and 10 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, 80 Stat. 888, 889, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1776, 1779).

# Source:
41 FR 32405, Aug. 3, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 235.1
General purpose and scope.
This part announces the policies and prescribes the regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of section 7 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended. It prescribes the methods for making payments of funds to State agencies for use for administrative expenses incurred in supervising and giving technical assistance in connection with activities undertaken by them under the National School Lunch Program (7 CFR part 210), the Special Milk Program (7 CFR part 215), the School Breakfast Program (7 CFR part 220), the Child and Adult Care Food Program (7 CFR part 226) and the Food Distribution Program (7 CFR part 250).
(Sec. 7, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3621 (42 U.S.C. 1776))
[44 FR 51185, Aug. 31, 1979, as amended by Amdt. 17, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 16, 1990; 60 FR 15461, Mar. 24, 1995]
§ 235.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, the term:
2 CFR part 200,
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
Act
means the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.
CND
means the Child Nutrition Division of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Distributing agency
means a State agency which enters into an agreement with the Department for the distribution of donated foods pursuant to part 250 of this title.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
FNSRO
means the appropriate Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Fiscal year
means a period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1, 1976, and October 1 of each calendar year thereafter and ending with September 30 of the following calendar year.
Institution
means a child or adult care center or a sponsoring organization as defined in part 226 of this chapter.
Large school food authority
means, in any State:
(1) All school food authorities that participate in the National School Lunch Program (7 CFR part 210) and have enrollments of 40,000 children or more each; or
(2) If there are less than two school food authorities with enrollments of 40,000 or more, the two largest school food authorities that participate in the National School Lunch Program (7 CFR part 210) and have enrollments of 2,000 children or more each.
Nonprofit
means exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
OIG
means the Office of the Inspector General of the Department.
SAE
means federally provided State administrative expense funds for State agencies under this part.
School
means the term as defined in §§ 210.2, 215.2, and 220.2 of this chapter, as applicable.
School Food Authority
means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of one or more schools and which has the legal authority to operate a breakfast or a lunch program therein. The term “School Food Authority” also includes a nonprofit agency or organization to which such governing body has delegated authority to operate the lunch or breakfast program in schools under its jurisdiction, provided the governing body retains the responsibility to comply with breakfast or lunch program regulations.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
State
means any of the 50 States, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and, as applicable, American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.
State agency
means (1) the State educational agency or (2) such other agency of the State as has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer programs under part 210, 215, 220, 226 or 250 of this title. Unless otherwise indicated, “State agency” shall also mean
Distributing agency
as defined in this section,, when such agency is receiving funds directly from FNS under this part.
State educational agency
means, as the State legislature may determine: (1) The chief State school officer (such as the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Commissioner of Education, or similar officer), or (2) a board of education controlling the State department of education.
USDA implementing regulations
include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
(Sec. 7, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3621 (42 U.S.C. 1776); sec. 205, Pub. L. 96-499, The Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1980, 94 Stat. 2599; secs. 807 and 808, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1772, 1784, 1760); Pub. L. 79-396, 60 Stat. 231 (42 U.S.C. 1751); Pub. L. 89-642, 80 Stat. 885-890 (42 U.S.C. 1773); Pub. L. 91-248, 84 Stat. 207 (42 U.S.C. 1759)
[41 FR 32405, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 48957, Aug. 21, 1979; 44 FR 51185, Aug. 31, 1979; Amdt. 9, 48 FR 19355, Apr. 29, 1983; Amdt. 14, 51 FR 27151, July 30, 1986; 54 FR 2991, Jan. 23, 1989; Amdt. 17, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 16, 1990; 60 FR 15461, Mar. 24, 1995; 64 FR 50743, Sept. 20, 1999; 71 FR 39519, July 13, 2006; 72 FR 63792, Nov. 13, 2007; 81 FR 50194, July 29, 2016; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 235.3
Administration.
(a) Within the Department, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the program for payment to States of State administrative expense funds covered by this part. Within FNS, CND shall be responsible for administration of the program.
(b) Each State agency desiring to receive payments under this part shall enter into a written agreement with the Department for the administration of the child nutrition programs in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part, 7 CFR parts 210, 215, 220, 225, 226, 245, 15, 15a, 15b, and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. Each agreement shall cover the operation of the Program during the period specified therein and may be extended at the option of the Department.
(Sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1338 (42 U.S.C. 1776); sec. 7, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3621 (42 U.S.C. 1776))
[41 FR 32405, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 48957, Aug. 21, 1979; Amdt. 14, 51 FR 27151, July 30, 1986; 71 FR 39519, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 235.4
Allocation of funds to States.
(a)
Nondiscretionary SAE Funds.
For each fiscal year, FNS shall allocate the following:
(1) To each State which administers the National School Lunch, School Breakfast or Special Milk Programs an amount equal to one (1) percent of the
funds expended by such State during the second preceding fiscal year under sections 4 and 11 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended, and sections 3, 4 and 17A of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended. However, the total amount allocated to any State under this paragraph shall not be less than $200,000 or the amount allocated to the State in the fiscal year ending September 30, 1981, whichever is greater. On October 1, 2008 and each October 1 thereafter, the minimum dollar amount for a fiscal year for administrative costs shall be adjusted to reflect the percentage change between the value of the index for State and local government purchases, as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce, for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the second preceding fiscal year, and the value of that index for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the preceding fiscal year.
(2) To each State which administers the Child and Adult Care Food Program an amount equal to the sum of: Twenty percent of the first $50,000; ten percent of the next $100,000; five percent of the next $250,000; and two and one-half percent of any remaining funds expended within the State under section 17 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended, during the second preceding fiscal year. FNS may adjust the amount of any such allocation in accordance with changes in the size of the Child and Adult Care Food Program in a State.
(3) For each of fiscal years 2005 through 2007 no State shall receive less than its fiscal year 2004 allocation for administrative costs for all child nutrition programs.
(b)
Discretionary SAE Funds.
For each fiscal year, FNS shall provide the following additional allocations:
(1) Allocate $30,000 to each State which administers the Child and Adult Care Food Program (7 CFR part 226).
(2) $30,000 to each State which administers the Food Distribution Program (part 250 of this chapter) in schools and/or institutions which participate in programs under parts 210, 220, and 226 of this chapter; provided that the State meets the training requirements set forth in § 235.11(h).
(3) Amounts derived by application of the following four-part formula to each State agency which is allocated funds under paragraph (a) of this section:
(i) One equal share of forty (40) percent of the funds designated by FNS for the reviews conducted under § 210.18 of this title.
(ii) The ratio of the number of School Food Authorities participating in the National School Lunch or Commodity School Programs under the jurisdiction of the State agency to such School Food Authorities in all States times twenty (20) percent of the funds designated by FNS for reviews conducted under § 210.18 or of this title.
(iii) The ratio of the number of free and reduced price meals served in School Food Authorities under the jurisdiction of the State agency during the second preceding fiscal year to the number of free and reduced price meals served in all States in the second preceding fiscal year times twenty (20) percent of the funds designated by FNS for reviews conducted under § 210.18 of this title.
(iv) Equal shares of twenty (20) percent of the funds designated by FNS for reviews conducted under § 210.18 of this title for each School Food Authority under the jurisdiction of the State agency participating in the National School Lunch or Commodity School Programs which has an enrollment of 40,000 or more;
Provided, however,
That for State agencies with fewer than two School Food Authorities with enrollments of 40,000 or more, an equal share shall be provided to the State agency, for either, or both, of the two largest School Food Authorities which have enrollments of more than 2,000; and
Provided, further,
That State agencies with only one School Food Authority, regardless of size, shall be provided with one equal share. For each fiscal year, the amount of State Administrative Expense Funds designated by FNS for reviews conducted under § 210.18 of this title and subject to allocation under this paragraph shall be equal to or greater than the amount designated by FNS for program management improvements for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1980.
(4) Funds which remain after the allocations required in paragraphs (a)(1),
(a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, and after any payments provided for under paragraph (c) of this section, as determined by the Secretary, to those States which administer the Food Distribution Program (part 250 of this chapter) in schools and/or institutions which participate in programs under parts 210, 220, or 226 of this chapter and to those States which administer part 226 of this chapter. The amount of funds to be allocated to each State for the Food Distribution Program for any fiscal year shall bear the same ratio to the total amount of funds made available for allocation to the State for the Food Distribution Program under this paragraph as the value of USDA donated foods delivered to the State for schools and institutions participating in programs under parts 210, 220 and 226 of this chapter during the second preceding fiscal year bears to the value of USDA donated foods delivered to all the States for such schools and institutions during the second preceding fiscal year. The amount of funds to be allocated to each State which administers the Child and Adult Care Food Program for any fiscal year shall bear the same ratio to the total amount of funds made available for allocation to all such States under this paragraph as the amount of funds allocated to each State under paragraph (a)(2) of this section bears to the amount allocated to all States under that paragraph.
(c)
SAE Funds for the Child and Adult Care Food Program.
If a State elects to have a separate State agency administer the adult care component of the Child and Adult Care Food Program, such separate State agency shall receive a pro rata share of the SAE funds allocated to the State under paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(1), and (b)(4) of this section which is equal to the ratio of funds expended by the State for the adult care component of the Child and Adult Care Food Program during the second preceding fiscal year to the funds expended by the State for the entire Child and Adult Care Food Program during the second preceding fiscal year. The remaining funds shall be allocated to the State agency administering the child care component of the Child and Adult Care Food Program.
(d)
SAE Start-up Cost Assistance for State Administration of Former ROAPs.
For any State agency which agrees to assume responsibility for the administration of food service programs in nonprofit private schools or child and adult care institutions that were previously administered by FNS, an appropriate adjustment in the administrative funds paid under this part to the State shall be made by FNS not later than the succeeding fiscal year. Such an adjustment shall consist of an amount of start-up cost assistance, negotiated with the State agency, of no less than $10,000 and not exceeding $100,000, per State.
(e)
SAE Funding Reduction Upon State Agency Termination of a Food Service Program.
For any State agency which terminates its administration of any food service program for which State administrative expense funds are provided under this part, a reduction in the amount of such funds, negotiated with the State agency, shall be made by FNS.
(f)
SAE Funds for ROAPs.
FNS shall have available to it the applicable amounts provided for in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (b)(1) of this section, and part 225 of this title, when it is responsible for the administration of a program or programs within a State.
(g)
Reallocation.
Funds allotted to State agencies under this section shall be subject to the reallocation provisions of § 235.5(d).
(h)
Withholding SAE funds.
The Secretary may withhold some or all of the funds allocated to the State agency under this section if the Secretary determines that the State agency is seriously deficient in the administration of any program for which State administrative expense funds are provided under this part or in the compliance of any regulation issued pursuant to those programs. On a subsequent determination by the Secretary that State agency administration of the programs or compliance with regulations is no
longer seriously deficient and is operated in an acceptable manner, the Secretary may allocate some or all of the funds withheld.
(Sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1338 (42 U.S.C. 1776); sec. 7, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3621 (42 U.S.C. 1776); sec. 7(a), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3622 (42 U.S.C. 1751); Pub. L. 96-499, secs. 201 and 204, 94 Stat. 2599; secs. 805, 812, 814 and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1754, 1759a, 1774 and 1776); E.O. 12372 (July 14, 1982, 47 FR 30959); sec. 401(b) Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 (31 U.S.C. 6506(c))
[44 FR 48957, Aug. 21, 1979]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 235.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 235.5
Payments to States.
(a)
Method of payment.
FNS will specify the terms and conditions of the State agency's annual grant of SAE funds in conjunction with the grant award document and will make funds available for payment by means of a Letter of Credit issued in favor of the State agency. The total amount of a State agency's grant shall be equal to the sum of the amounts allocated to such agency under § 235.4 plus or minus any adjustments resulting from the reallocation provisions under paragraph (d) of this section plus any transfers under § 235.6(a) and/or § 235.6(c) of this part. The amount of SAE funds made available for payment to a State agency in any fiscal year shall be determined by FNS upon approval of the State agency's administrative plan under paragraph (b) of this section and any amendments to such plan under paragraph (c) of this section. Funds shall not be made available before the State agency's plan or amendment to such plan, as applicable, has been approved by FNS. However, if the plan has not been approved by October 1 of the base year, FNS may advance SAE funds to the State agency, in amounts determined appropriate by FNS, pending approval of the plan.
(b)
Administrative plan.
(1) Each State agency shall submit, subject to FNS approval, an initial State Administrative Expense plan based upon guidance provided by FNS. This base year plan shall include:
(i) The staffing pattern for State level personnel;
(ii) A budget for the forthcoming fiscal year showing projected amounts (combined SAE and State funds) by cost category;
(iii) The total amount of budgeted funds to be provided from State sources;
(iv) The total amount of budgeted funds to be provided under this part;
(v) The State agency's estimate of the total amount of budgeted funds (combined SAE and State funds) attributable to administration of the School Nutrition Programs (National School Lunch, School Breakfast and Special Milk Programs), Child and Adult Care Food Program, and/or Food Distribution Program in schools and child and adult care institutions and to each of the major activity areas of the State agency; and
(vi) The State agency's estimate of the total Child and Adult Care Food Program audit funds to be used for the forthcoming fiscal year.
(2) These activity areas shall be defined and described by the State agency in accordance with guidance issued by FNS and may include such activities as program monitoring, technical assistance, Federal reporting/claims processing, policy implementation, and allocation of foods to recipient agencies.
(3) Except in specific instances where determined necessary by FNS, State agencies shall not be required to maintain expenditure records by activity area or program. State agencies shall refer to 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(4) FNS shall approve a State agency's plan, or any amendment to such plan under paragraph (c) of this section, if it determines that the plan or amendment is consistent with program administrative needs and SAE requirements under this part.
(5) To the extent practicable, State agencies shall implement their approved plans (as amended). FNS shall monitor State agency implementation
of the plans through management evaluations, State agency reports submitted under this part, audits, and through other available means.
(6) FNS may expand plan requirements for individual State agencies in order to address specific administrative deficiencies which affect compliance with program requirements and which have been identified by FNS through its monitoring activities.
(c)
Amendments to the administrative plan.
A State agency may amend its plan at any time to reflect changes in funding or activities, except that, if such changes are substantive as defined in the June 5, 1997 guidance, and any amendments or updates to this guidance, the State agency shall amend its plan in accordance with guidance provided by FNS. Plan amendments shall provide information in a format consistent with that provided in the State agency's plan, but shall only require FNS approval if it results in a substantive change as defined by FNS.
(d)
Reallocation of funds.
Annually, between March 1 and May 1 on a date specified by FNS, of each year, each State agency shall submit to FNS a State Administrative Expense Funds Reallocation Report (FNS-525) on the use of SAE funds. At such time, a State agency may release to FNS any funds that have been allocated, reallocated or transferred to it under this part or may request additional funds in excess of its current grant level. Based on this information or on other available information, FNS shall reallocate, as it determines appropriate, any funds allocated to State agencies in the current fiscal year which will not be obligated in the following fiscal year and any funds carried over from the prior fiscal year which remain unobligated at the end of the current fiscal year. Reallocated funds shall be made available for payment to a State agency upon approval by FNS of the State agency's amendment to the base year plan which covers the reallocated funds, if applicable. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a State agency may, at any time, release to FNS for reallocation any funds that have been allocated, reallocated or transferred to it under this part and are not needed to implement its approved plan under this section.
(e)
Return of funds.
(1) In Fiscal Year 1991, up to 25 per cent of the SAE funds allocated to each State agency under § 235.4 may remain available for obligation and expenditure in the second fiscal year of the grant. In subsequent fiscal years, up to 20 percent may remain available for obligation and expenditure in the second fiscal year. The maximum amount to remain available will be calculated at the time of the formula allocation by multiplying the appropriate percentage by each State agency's formula allocation as provided under § 235.4(a) through (c). At the end of the first fiscal year, the amount subject to the retention limit is determined by subtracting the amount reported by the State agency as Total Federal share of outlays and unliquidated obligations on the fourth quarter Standard Form FNS 777, Financial Status Report, from the total amount of SAE funds made available for that fiscal year (i.e., the formula allocation adjusted for any transfers or reallocations). However, funds provided under § 235.4(d) are not subject to the retention limit. Any funds in excess of the amount that remains available to each State agency shall be returned to FNS.
(2) At the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which funds were allocated, each State agency shall return any funds made available which are unobligated.
(3) Return of funds by the State agency shall be made as soon as practicable, but in any event, not later than 30 days following demand by FNS.
[Amdt. 14, 51 FR 27151, July 30, 1986, as amended by Amdt. 17, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 16, 1990; 60 FR 15462, Mar. 24, 1995; 64 FR 50743, Sept. 20, 199; 88 FR 57858, Aug. 23, 20239]
§ 235.6
Use of funds.
(a) Funds allocated under this part and 7 CFR part 225 shall be used for State agency administrative costs incurred in connection with the programs governed by 7 CFR parts 210, 215, 220, 225, 226, and 250 of this title. Except as provided under § 235.6(c), funds allocated under § 235.4, paragraphs (a) and (b) and 7 CFR part 225 shall be used for
the program(s) for which allocated, except that the State agency may transfer funds allocated for any such program(s) to other such program(s). Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, a State agency may also transfer SAE funds that are not needed to implement its approved plan § 235.5(b) to another State agency within the State that is eligible to receive SAE funds under this part. Up to 25 per cent of funds allocated under § 235.4(a) through (c) for Fiscal Year 1991 and up to 20 per cent of funds allocated in subsequent fiscal years to a State agency may, subject to the provisions of § 235.5 of this part, remain available for obligation and expenditure by such State agency during the following fiscal year.
(a)(1) State administrative expense funds paid to any State may be used by State agencies to pay salaries, including employee benefits and travel expenses for administrative and supervisory personnel, for support services, for office equipment, and for staff development, particularly for monitoring and training of food service personnel at the local level in areas such as food purchasing and merchandizing. Such funds shall be used to employ additional personnel, as approved in the applicable State plan to supervise, improve management, and give technical assistance to school food authorities and to institutions in their initiation, expansion, and conduct of any programs for which the funds are made available. State agencies may also use these funds for their general administrative expenses in connection with any such programs, including travel and related expenses. Additional personnel or part-time personnel hired are expected to meet professional qualifications and to be paid at salary scales of positions of comparable difficulty and responsibility under the State agency. Personnel may be used on a staff year equivalent basis, thus permitting new personnel and existing staff to be cross-utilized for most effective and economical operation under existing and new programs. State agencies may also use these funds for the purposes of State director annual continuing education/training as described in § 235.11(h)(3); however, costs associated with obtaining college credits to meet the hiring standards in § 235.11(h)(1) and (2) are not allowable.
(a)(2) State Administrative Expense Funds paid to any State agency under § 235.4(b)(3) shall be available for reviews conducted under § 210.18 activities associated with carrying out actions to ensure adherence to the program performance standards.
(b) State administrative expense funds shall be used consistent with the cost principles and constraints on allowable and unallowable costs and indirect cost rates as prescribed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(c) In addition to State Administrative Expense funds made available specifically for food distribution purposes under § 235.4 (b)(2) and (b)(4), State Administrative Expense funds allocated under § 235.4 (a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(3), and (d), and under (b)(4) for the Child and Adult Care Food Program may be used to assist in the administration of the Food Distribution Program (7 CFR part 250) in schools and institutions which participate in programs governed by parts 210, 220, and 226 of this title when such Food Distribution Program is administered within the State agency and may also be used to pay administrative expenses of a distributing agency, when such agency is other than the State agency and is responsible for administering all or part of such Food Distribution Program.
(d) FNS shall allocate, for the purpose of providing grants on an annual basis to public entities and private nonprofit organizations participating in projects under section 18(c) of the National School Lunch Act, not more than $4,000,000 in each of Fiscal Years 1993 and 1994. Subject to the maximum allocation for such projects for each fiscal year, at the beginning of each of Fiscal Years 1993 and 1994, FNS shall allocate, from funds available under § 235.5(d) that have not otherwise been allocated to States, an amount equal to the estimates by FNS of the funds to be returned under paragraph (a) of this section, but not less than $1,000,000 in each fiscal year. To the extent that amounts returned to FNS are less than estimated or are insufficient to meet
the needs of the projects, FNS may allocate amounts to meet the needs of the projects from funds available under this section that have not been otherwise allocated to States. FNS shall reallocate any of the excess funds above the minimum level in accordance with § 235.5(d).
(e) Where State Administrative Expense Funds are used to acquire personal property or services the provisions of §§ 235.9 and 235.10 must be observed.
(f) Each State agency shall adequately safeguard all assets and assure that they are used solely for authorized purposes.
(g) Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, shall:
(1) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than five years or both; or
(2) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year or both.
(h) Whoever receives, conceals, or retains to his use or gain funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud, shall be subject to the same penalties provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(i)
Full use of Federal funds.
States and State agencies must support the full use of Federal funds provided to State agencies for the administration of Child Nutrition Programs, and exclude such funds from State budget restrictions or limitations including hiring freezes, work furloughs, and travel restrictions.
(Sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1338, 1339, 1340 (42 U.S.C. 1751, 1753, 1759a, 1761, 1766, 1772-1775, 1776, 1786); sec. 7(a), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3621, 3622 (42 U.S.C. 1751, 1776))
[41 FR 32405, Aug. 3, 1976]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 235.6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 235.7
Records and reports.
(a) Each State agency shall keep records on the expenditure of State administrative expense funds provided under this part and part 225 of this title. Such records shall conform with the applicable State plan for use of State administrative expense funds. The State agency shall make such records available, upon a reasonable request, to FNS, OIG, or the U.S. Comptroller General and shall maintain current accounting records of State administrative expense funds which shall adequately identify fund authorizations, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays and income. The records may be kept in their original form or on microfilm, and shall be retained for a period of three years after the date of the submission of the final Financial Status Report, subject to the exceptions noted below:
(1) If audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(2) Records for nonexpendable property acquired with State Administrative Expense Funds shall be retained for three years after its final disposition.
(b) Each State agency shall submit to FNS a quarterly Financial Status Report (FNS-777) on the use of State administrative expense funds provided for each fiscal year under this part. Reports shall be postmarked and/or submitted to FNS no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter of the fiscal year and, in case of funds carried over under § 235.6(a), each quarter of the following fiscal year until all such funds have been obligated and expended. Obligations shall be reported for the fiscal year in which they occur. Each State agency shall submit a final Financial Status Report for each fiscal year's State administrative expense funds. This report shall be postmarked and/or submitted to FNS no later than 30 days after the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the funds were initially made available.
Based on guidance provided by FNS, each State agency shall also use the quarterly FNS-777 to report on the use of State funds provided during the fiscal year. Each State agency shall also submit an annual report containing information on School Food Authorities under agreement with the State agency to participate in the National School Lunch or Commodity School programs.
(c) State agencies operating those programs governed by parts 210, 215, 220 and 226 and those State agencies which are distributing agencies eligible for SAE funds shall participate in surveys and studies of programs authorized under the National School Lunch Act, as amended, and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, when such studies and surveys are authorized by the Secretary of Agriculture. The aforementioned State agencies shall encourage individual School Food Authorities, child and adult care institutions, and distributing agencies (as applicable) to participate in such studies and surveys. Distribution of State Administrative Expense funds to an individual State agency is contingent upon that State agency's cooperation in such studies and surveys.
(Sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1338 (42 U.S.C. 1776); sec. 7, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3621 (42 U.S.C. 1776); 93 Stat. 837, Pub. L. 96-108 (42 U.S.C. 1776); secs. 804, 816, 817 and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1756, 1759, 1771, 1773 and 1785); sec. 7(a), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3622, 42 U.S.C. 1751)
[41 FR 32405, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 37173, Aug. 22, 1978; 44 FR 48958, Aug. 21, 1979; 45 FR 8563, Feb. 8, 1980; Amdt. 9, 48 FR 195, Jan. 4, 1983; Amdt. 11, 48 FR 27892, June 17, 1983; Amdt. 12, 49 FR 18989, May 4, 1984; Amdt. 14, 51 FR 27152, July 30, 1986; Amdt. 17, 55 FR 1378, Jan. 16, 1990; 60 FR 15463, Mar. 24, 1995; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 235.8
Management evaluations and audits.
(a) Unless otherwise exempt, audits at the State level shall be conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(b) While OIG shall rely to the fullest extent feasible upon State sponsored audits, it shall, whenever considered necessary, (1) perform on-site test audits, and (2) review audit reports and related working papers of audits performed by or for State agencies.
(c) Each State agency shall provide FNS with full opportunity to conduct management evaluations of all operations of the State agency under this part and shall provide OIG with full opportunity to conduct audits of all such operations. Each State agency shall make available its records, including records of the receipt and expenditure of funds, upon a reasonable request by FNS, OIG, or the U.S. Comptroller General.
(Sec. 7, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3621 (42 U.S.C. 1776); secs. 804, 805, 812, 814, 816, 817 and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1754, 1756, 1759, 1759a, 1771, 1773, 1774, 1776, and 1785))
[41 FR 32405, Aug. 3, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 51186, Aug. 31, 1979; Amdt. 7, 47 FR 18567, Apr. 30, 1982; Amdt. 9, 48 FR 195, Jan. 4, 1983; 54 FR 2991, Jan. 23, 1989; 71 FR 39519, July 13, 2006; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 235.9
Procurement and property management standards.
(a)
Requirements.
State agencies shall comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 concerning the procurement of supplies, equipment and other services with State Administrative Expense Funds.
(b)
Contractual responsibilities.
The standards contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 do not relieve the State agency of any contractual responsibilities under its contract. The State agency is the responsible authority, without recourse to FNS, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in connection with the Program. This includes, but is not limited to source evaluation, protests, disputes, claims, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to the local, State or Federal authority that has proper jurisdiction.
(c)
Procurement procedure.
The State agency may use its own procurement procedures which reflect applicable State laws and regulations, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D
and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(d)
Property acquired with State administrative expense funds.
State Agencies shall comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 in their utilization and disposition of property acquired in whole or in part with State Administrative Expense Funds.
(Pub. L. 79-396, 60 Stat. 231 (42 U.S.C. 1751); Pub. L. 89-642, 80 Stat. 885-890 (42 U.S.C. 1773); Pub. L. 91-248, 84 Stat. 207 (42 U.S.C. 1759))
[Amdt. 9, 48 FR 19355, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 71 FR 39519, July 13, 200; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 235.10
[Reserved]
§ 235.11
Other provisions.
(a)
State funds.
Expenditures of funds from State sources in any fiscal year for the administration of the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program, Special Milk Program, Child and Adult Care Food Program shall not be less than that expended or obligated in fiscal year 1977. Failure of a State to maintain this level of funding will result in the total withdrawal of SAE funds. State agencies shall follow the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 in identifying and documenting expenditures of funds from State revenues to meet the State funding requirement of this paragraph.
(b)
Sanctions imposed.
(1) FNS may recover, withhold or cancel payment of up to one hundred (100) percent of the funds payable to a State agency under this part, whenever it is determined by FNS that the State agency has failed to comply with the requirements contained in this part and in parts 210, 215, 220 and 226 of this title and in part 250 of this title as it applies to the operation of the Food Distribution Program in schools and child and adult care institutions.
(2) In addition to the general provisions found in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, FNS may, for any fiscal year, recover, withhold or cancel payment of up to thirty-three and one-third (33
1/3
) percent of the funds payable to, and to be used by, a State agency under § 235.4(a)(1) and § 235.4(b)(3) for administration of school nutrition programs in FNS determines that a State agency is deficient in one or more of the following:
(i) Implementing the requirements in § 210.18;
(ii) Conducting the number of reviews required in § 210.18 within the timeframes specified;
(iii) Covering the areas of review set forth in the § 210.18, carrying out corrective action, and assessing and recovering claims as prescribed in §§ 210.18 and 210.19 of this title;
(iv) Conducting reviews with sufficient thoroughness to identify violations of the areas of review identified in § 210.18;
(v) Meeting the reporting deadlines prescribed for the forms (FNS-10 and FNS-777) required under § 210.5(d) of this title; and
(vi) Meeting the professional standards required in paragraph (g) of this section.
(3) Furthermore, FNS may for any fiscal year, recover, withhold or cancel payment of up to thirty-three and one-third (33
1/3
) percent of the funds payable to, and to be used by, a State agency under § 235.4(a)(2), § 235.4(b)(1) and § 235.4(b)(4) for administration of the Child and Adult Care Food Program if FNS determines that a State agency is deficient in meeting the reporting deadlines prescribed for the forms (FNS-44 and FNS-777) required under § 226.7(d) of this title.
(4) In establishing the amounts of funds to be recovered, withheld or cancelled under paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, FNS shall determine the current or projected rate of funds usage by the State agency for all funds subject to sanction, and after considering the severity and longevity of the cumulative deficiencies, shall apply an appropriate sanction percentage to the amount so determined. During the fiscal year under sanction, a State agency may not use funds not included in the determination of funds usage to replace sanctioned funds. The maximum sanction percentage that may be imposed against a State agency for failure within one or more of the five deficiency areas specified in paragraph (b)(2) of
this section for any fiscal year shall be thirty-three and one-third (33
1/3
) percent of the funds payable under § 235.4(a)(1) and § 235.4(b)(3) for administration of school nutrition programs for such fiscal year.
(5) Before carrying out any sanction against a State agency under this section, the following procedures shall be implemented:
(i) FNS shall notify the Chief State School Officer or equivalent of the deficiencies found and of its intention to impose sanctions unless an acceptable corrective action plan is submitted and approved by FNS within 60 calendar days.
(ii) The State agency shall develop a corrective action plan with specific timeframes to correct the deficiencies and/or prevent their future recurrence. The plan will include dates by which the State agency will accomplish such corrective action.
(iii) FNS shall review the corrective action plan. If it is acceptable, FNS shall issue a letter to the Chief State School Officer or equivalent approving the corrective action plan, and detailing the technical assistance that is available to the State agency to correct the deficiencies. The letter shall advise the Chief State School Officer or equivalent of the specific sanctions to be imposed if the corrective action plan is not implemented within timeframes set forth in the approved plan.
(iv) Upon advice from the State agency that corrective action has been taken, FNS shall assess such action and, if necessary, shall perform a follow-up review to determine if the noted deficiencies have been corrected. FNS shall then advise the State agency if the actions taken are in compliance with the corrective action plan or if additional corrective action is needed.
(v) If an acceptable corrective action plan is not submitted and approved within 60 calendar days, or if corrective action is not completed within the time limits established in the corrective action plan, FNS may impose a sanction by assessing a claim against the State agency or taking action in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 FNS shall notify the Chief State School Officer or equivalent of any such action.
(vi) If, subsequent to the imposition of any sanction, FNS determines that the noted deficiencies have been resolved and that the programs for which SAE funds were made available are being operated in an acceptable manner, FNS may return to the State agency or restore to the State agency's Letter of Credit (LOC) part or all of any sanctioned SAE funds.
(6) In carrying out sanctions under this part for any fiscal year, FNS may reduce the amount of allocated SAE funds payable to a State agency in whole or in part during such fiscal year and during following fiscal years if necessary.
(7) Any State agency which has a sanction imposed against it in accordance with this paragraph shall not be eligible to participate in any reallocation of SAE funds under § 235.5(d) of this part during any fiscal year in which such sanction is being applied.
(c)
Fines.
(1) FNS may establish a fine against any State agency administering the programs under parts 210, 215, 220, 225, 226, and 250 of this chapter, as it applies to the operation of the Food Distribution Program in schools and child and adult care institutions, when it has determined that the State agency has:
(i) Failed to correct severe mismanagement of the programs;
(ii) Disregarded a program requirement of which the State has been informed; or
(iii) Failed to correct repeated violations of program requirements.
(2) Funds used to pay a fine established under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be derived from non-Federal sources. The amount of the fine will not exceed the equivalent of:
(i) For the first fine, 1 percent of all allocations made available under § 235.4 during the most recent fiscal year for which full year data are available;
(ii) For the second fine, 5 percent of all allocations made available under § 235.4 during the most recent fiscal year for which full year data are available; and
(iii) For the third or subsequent fines, 10 percent of all allocations made available under § 235.4 during the most
recent fiscal year for which full year data are available.
(3) State agencies seeking to appeal a fine established under this paragraph must follow the procedures set forth in this paragraph (g).
(d)
Termination for convenience.
FNS and the State agency may terminate the State agency's participation under this part in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that continuation would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. The State agency shall not incur new obligations for the terminated portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. FNS shall allow full credit to the State agency for the Federal share of the noncancellable obligations, properly incurred by the State agency prior to termination.
(e) In taking any action under paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section, FNS and the State agency shall comply with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 concerning grant suspension, termination and closeout procedures.
(f)
State requirements.
Nothing contained in this part shall prevent a State agency from imposing additional operating requirements which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this part.
(g)
Administrative review process.
When FNS asserts a sanction or fine against a State agency under the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the State agency may appeal the case and be afforded a review by an FNS Administrative Review Officer of the record including any additional written submissions prepared by the State agency.
(1) FNS shall provide a written notice and shall ensure the receipt of such notice when asserting a sanction or fine against a State agency.
(2) A State agency aggrieved by a sanction or fine asserted against it may file a written request with the Director, Administrative Review Staff, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Va. 22302 for a review of the record. Such request must be postmarked within 30 calendar days of the date of delivery of the sanction or fine notice and the envelope containing the request shall be prominently marked “REQUEST FOR REVIEW.” If the State agency does not request a review within 30 calendar days of the date of delivery of the sanction or fine notice, the administrative decision on the sanction or fine shall be final.
(3) Upon receipt of a request for review, FNS shall promptly provide the State agency with a written acknowledgment of the request. The acknowledgment shall include the name and address of the FNS Administrative Review Officer reviewing the sanction or fine. The acknowledgment shall also notify the State agency that any additional information in support of its position must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the acknowledgment.
(4) When a review is requested, the FNS Administrative Review Officer shall review all available information and shall make a final determination within 45 calendar days after receipt of the State agency's additional information. The final determination shall take effect upon delivery of the written notice of this final decision to the State agency.
(5) The final determination of the FNS Administrative Review Officer will be the Department's final decision in the case and will not be subject to reconsideration.
(h)
Professional standards.
State agencies must meet the minimum hiring and training standards established by FNS.
(1)
Hiring standards for State directors of school nutrition programs.
Beginning July 1, 2015, newly hired State agency directors with responsibility for the administration of the National School Lunch Program under part 210 of this chapter and the School Breakfast Program under part 220 of this chapter must have:
(i) Bachelor's degree, master's degree, or doctorate degree with an academic major in areas including food
and nutrition, food service management, dietetics, family and consumer sciences, nutrition education, culinary arts, business, or a related field;
(ii) Extensive relevant knowledge and experience in areas such as institutional food service operations, management, business, and/or nutrition education (experience in three or more of these areas highly recommended); and
(iii) Additional abilities and skills needed to lead, manage and supervise people to support the mission of Child Nutrition programs.
(iv) It is also strongly preferred that new hires possess:
(A) Both a bachelor's degree
and
a master's or doctorate degree with an academic major in areas including food and nutrition, food service management, dietetics, family and consumer sciences, nutrition education, culinary arts, business, or a related field;
(B) At least five years of experience leading people in successfully accomplishing major multi-faceted projects related to child nutrition and/or institutional foodservice management; and
(C) Professional certification in food and nutrition, food service management, school business management or a related field as determined by FNS.
(2)
Hiring standards for State directors of distributing agencies.
Beginning July 1, 2015, newly hired State agency directors with responsibility for the administration of the distribution of USDA donated foods under part 250 of this chapter must have:
(i) Bachelor's degree in any academic major;
(ii) Extensive relevant knowledge and experience in areas such as institutional food service operations, management, business, and/or nutrition education; and
(iii) Additional abilities and skills needed to lead, manage and supervise people to support the mission of Child Nutrition programs.
(iv) It is also strongly preferred that new hires possess at least five years of experience in institutional food service operations.
(3)
Continuing education and training standards for State directors of school nutrition programs and distributing agencies.
Each school year, all State directors with responsibility for the National School Lunch Program under part 210 of this chapter and the School Breakfast Program under part 220 of this chapter, as well as those responsible for the distribution of USDA donated foods under part 250 of this chapter, must complete a minimum of 15 hours of training in core areas that may include nutrition, operations, administration, communications and marketing. State directors tasked with National School Lunch Program procurement responsibilities must complete annual procurement training, as required under § 210.21(h) of this chapter. Additional hours and topics may be specified by FNS, as needed, to address program integrity and other critical issues.
(4)
Provision of annual training.
At least annually, State agencies with responsibility for the National School Lunch Program under part 210 of this chapter and the School Breakfast Program under part 220 of this chapter, as well as State agencies with responsibility for the distribution of USDA donated foods under part 250 of this chapter, must provide or ensure that State agency staff receive annual continuing education/training.
(i) Each State agency with responsibility for the National School Lunch Program under part 210 of this chapter and the School Breakfast Program under part 220 of this chapter must provide a minimum of 18 hours of continuing education/training to school food authorities. Topics include administrative practices (including training in application, certification, verification, meal counting, and meal claiming procedures); the accuracy of approvals for free and reduced price meals; the identification of reimbursable meals at the point of service; nutrition; health and food safety standards; the efficient and effective use of USDA donated foods; and any other appropriate topics, as determined by FNS, to ensure program compliance and integrity or to address other critical issues.
(ii) Each State agency with responsibility for the distribution of USDA donated foods under part 250 of this chapter must provide or ensure receipt of continuing education/training to State distribution agency staff on an annual
basis. Topics may include the efficient and effective use of USDA donated foods; inventory rotation and control; health and food safety standards; and any other appropriate topics, as determined by FNS, to ensure program compliance and integrity or to address other critical issues.
(5)
Records and recordkeeping.
State agencies must annually retain records for a period of three years to adequately demonstrate compliance with the professional standards for State directors of school nutrition programs established in this paragraph.
(6)
Failure to comply.
Failure to comply with the professional standards in this paragraph may result in sanctions as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(Sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1338 (42 U.S.C. 1776); sec. 7, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3621 (42 U.S.C. 1776); secs. 805 and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1773); sec. 7(a), Pub. L. 95-627, 93 Stat. 3622, 42 U.S.C. 1751)
[41 FR 32405, Aug. 3, 1976]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 235.11, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 235.12
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
7 CFR Section where
requirements are
described
Current OMB control No.
235.3(b)
0584-0067.
235.4
0584-0067.
235.5(b), (d)
0584-0067.
235.7(a), (b)
0584-0067.
235.9(c), (d)
0584-0067.
235.11
0584-0067.
210.7
0584-0067.
[80 FR 11096, Mar. 2, 2015]
Pt. 240

# PART 240—CASH IN LIEU OF DONATED FOODS
Sec.
240.1
General purpose and scope.
240.2
Definitions.
240.3
Cash in lieu of donated foods for program schools.
240.4
Cash in lieu of donated foods for nonresidential child and adult care institutions.
240.5
Cash in lieu of donated foods for commodity schools.
240.6
Funds for States which have phased out facilities.
240.7
Payments to States.
240.8
Payments to program schools, service institutions, nonresidential child care institutions and commodity schools.
240.9
Use of funds.
240.10
Unobligated funds.
240.11
Records and reports.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 612c note, 1751, 1755, 1762a, 1765, 1766, 1779.

# Source:
47 FR 15982, Apr. 13, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 240.1
General purpose and scope.
(a) Each school year the Department programs agricultural commodities and other foods to States for delivery to program and commodity schools, nonresidential child care institutions, and service institutions pursuant to the regulations governing the donation of foods for use in the United States, its territories and possessions and areas under its jurisdiction (7 CFR part 250).
(b) Section 6(b) of the Act requires that not later than June 1 of each school year, the Secretary shall make an estimate of the value of the agricultural commodities and other foods that will be delivered during that school year for use in lunch programs by schools participating in the National School Lunch Program (7 CFR part 210). If this estimate is less than the total level of assistance authorized under section 6(e) of the Act the Secretary shall pay to the State administering agency not later than July 1 of that school year, an amount of funds equal to the difference between the value of donated foods as then programmed for that school year and the total level of assistance authorized under such section.
(c) Section 6(e)(1) of the Act requires:
(1) That for each school year, the total commodity assistance, or cash in lieu thereof, available to each State for the National School Lunch Program shall be the amount obtained by multiplying the national average value of donated foods, described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, by the number of lunches served in that State in the preceding school year; and
(2) That the national average value of foods donated to schools participating in the National School Lunch Program, or cash payments made in lieu thereof, shall be 11 cents, adjusted on July 1, 1982, and each July 1 thereafter to reflect changes in the Price Index for Food Used in Schools and Institutions. Section 6(e)(1) further requires that not less than 75 percent of the assistance under that section shall be in the form of donated foods for the National School Lunch Program. After the end of each school year, FNS shall reconcile the number of lunches served by schools in each State with the number served in the preceding school year and, based on such reconciliation, shall increase or reduce subsequent commodity assistance or cash in lieu thereof provided to each State.
(d) Section 12(g) of the Act provides that whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property that are the subject of a grant or other form of assistance under this Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, whether received directly or indirectly from the United States Department of Agriculture, or whoever receives, conceals, or retains such funds, assets, or property to his use or gain, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud shall, if such funds, assets, or property are of the value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, or, if such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(e) Section 14(f) of the Act provides that the value of foods donated to States for use in commodity schools for any school year shall be the sum of the national average value of donated foods established under section 6(e) of the Act and the national average payment established under section 4 of the Act. Section 14(f) also provides that such schools shall be eligible to receive up to five cents of such value in cash for processing and handling expenses related to the use of the donated foods.
(f) Sections 17(h)(1) (B) and (C) of the Act provide that the value of commodities, or cash in lieu thereof, donated to States for use in nonresidential child or adult care institutions participating in the Child and Adult Care Food Program (7 CFR part 226) for any school year shall be, at a minimum, the amount obtained by multiplying the number of lunches and suppers served during the preceding school year by the rate established for lunches for that school year under section 6(e) of the Act. At the end of each school year, FNS shall reconcile the number of lunches and suppers served in participating institutions in each State during such school year with the number of lunches and suppers served in the preceding school year and, based on such reconciliation, shall increase or reduce subsequent commodity assistance or cash in lieu of commodities provided to each State.
(g) Section 16 of the Act provides that a State which has phased out its food distribution facilities prior to June 30, 1974, may elect to receive cash payments in lieu of donated foods for the purposes of the applicable child nutrition programs—i.e., the National School Lunch Program, the Summer Food Service Program for Children (7 CFR part 225) and the Child Care Food Program.
(h) These regulations prescribe the methods for determination of the amount of payments, the manner of disbursement and the requirements for accountability for funds when these respective statutory authorities require the Department to make cash payments in lieu of donating agricultural commodities and other foods.
[47 FR 15982, Apr. 13, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 7267, Mar. 10, 1987; 58 FR 39120, July 22, 1993]
§ 240.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part the term:
Act
means the National School Lunch Act, as amended.
Child Care Food Program
means the Program authorized by section 17 of the Act.
Commodity school
means a school that does not participate in the National School Lunch Program under part 210 of this chapter but which operates a
nonprofit lunch program under agreement with the State educational agency or FNSRO and receives donated foods, or donated foods and cash or services of a value of up to 5 cents per lunch in lieu of donated foods under this part for processing and handling the foods.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Distributing agencies
means State, Federal or private agencies which enter into agreements with the Department for the distribution of donated foods to program schools, commodity schools, and nonresidential child care institutions.
Donated-food processing and handling expenses
means any expenses incurred by or on behalf of a commodity school for processing or other aspects of the preparation, delivery, and storage of donated foods for use in its lunch program.
Donated foods
means foods donated, or available for donation, by the Department under any of the legislation referred to in part 250 of this chapter.
Fiscal year
means the period of 12 months beginning October 1 of any calendar year and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department.
FNSRO
means the appropriate Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office.
National School Lunch Program
means the Program authorized by sections 4 and 11 of the Act.
Nonprofit
means exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended; or in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, certified as nonprofit by its Governor.
Nonresidential child care institution
means any child care center, day care home, or sponsoring organization (as those terms are defined in part 226 of this chapter) which participates in the Child Care Food Program.
Program school
means a school which participates in the National School Lunch Program.
School
means (1) an educational unit of high school grade or under except for a private school with an average yearly tuition exceeding $1,500 per child, operating under public or nonprofit private ownership in a single building or complex of buildings. The term “high school grade or under” includes classes of preprimary grade when they are conducted in a school having classes of primary or higher grade, or when they are recognized as a part of the educational system in the State, regardless of whether such preprimary grade classes are conducted in a school having classes of primary or higher grade; (2) with the exception of residential summer camps which participate in the Summer Food Service Program for Children, Job Corps centers funded by the Department of Labor and private foster homes, any public or nonprofit private child care institution, or distinct part of such institution, which (i) maintains children in residence, (ii) operates principally for the care of children, and (iii) if private, is licensed to provide residential child care services under the appropriate licensing code by the State or a subordinate level of government. The term “child care institutions” includes, but is not limited to: homes for the mentally retarded, the emotionally disturbed, the physically handicapped, and unmarried mothers and their infants; group homes; halfway houses; orphanages; temporary shelters for abused children and for runaway children; long-term care facilities for chronically ill children; and juvenile detention centers; and (3) with respect to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, nonprofit child care centers certified as such by the Governor of Puerto Rico.
School food authority
means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of one or more schools and which has the legal authority to operate a nonprofit lunch program therein.
School year
means the period of 12 months beginning July 1 of any calendar year and ending June 30 of the following calendar year.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
Service institutions
means camps or sponsors (as those terms are defined in part 225 of this chapter) which participate in the Summer Food Service Program for Children.
Special needs children
means children who are emotionally, mentally or physically handicapped.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American-Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
State agency
means the State educational agency or such other agency of the State as has been designated by the Governor or other appropriate executive or legislative authority of the State and approved by the Department to administer, in the State, the National School Lunch Program, the Child Care Food Program, the Summer Food Service Program for Children, or nonprofit lunch programs in commodity schools.
State educational agency
means, as the State legislature may determine, (1) the chief State school officer (such as the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Commissioner of Education, or similar officer), or (2) a board of education controlling the State Department of Education.
Summer Food Service Program for Children
means the Program authorized by section 13 of the Act.
Tuition
means any educational expense required by the school as part of the students' educational program; not including transportation fees for commuting to and from school, and the cost of room and board. The following monies shall not be included when calculating a school's average yearly tuition per child:
(1) Academic scholarship aid from public or private organizations or entities given to students, or to schools for students, and (2) state, county or local funds provided to schools operating principally for the purpose of educating handicapped or other special needs children for whose education the State, county or local government is primarily or solely responsible. In a school which varies tuition, the average yearly tuition shall be calculated by dividing the total tuition receipts for the current school year by the total number of students enrolled for purposes of determining if the average yearly tuition exceeds $1,500 per child.
§ 240.3
Cash in lieu of donated foods for program schools.
(a) Not later than June 1 of each school year, FNS shall make an estimate of the value of agricultural commodities and other foods that will be delivered to States during the school year under the food distribution regulations (7 CFR part 250) for use in program schools. If the estimated value is less than the total value of assistance authorized under section 6(e) of the Act for the National School Lunch Program, FNS shall determine the difference between the value of the foods then programmed for each State for the school year and the required value and shall pay the difference to each State agency not later than July 1 of that school year.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in any State in which FNS administers the National School Lunch Program in any of the schools of the State, FNS shall withhold from the funds payable to that State under this section an amount equal to the ratio of the number of lunches served in schools in which the program is administered by FNS to the total number of lunches served in all program schools in the State.
[47 FR 15982, Apr. 13, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 7267, Mar. 10, 1987; 58 FR 39120, July 22, 1993]
§ 240.4
Cash in lieu of donated foods for nonresidential child and adult care institutions.
(a) For each school year any State agency may, upon application to FNS prior to the beginning of the school year, elect to receive cash in lieu of donated foods for use in nonresidential child care or adult care institutions participating in the Child and Adult Care Food Program. FNS shall pay each State agency making such election, at a minimum, an amount calculated by multiplying the number of lunches and suppers served in the State's nonresidential child and adult care institutions which meet the meal pattern requirements prescribed in the regulations for the Child and Adult Care Food Program under part 226 of this chapter by the national average value of donated food prescribed in section 6(e)(1) of the Act. However, if a
State agency has elected to receive a combination of donated foods and cash, the required amount shall be reduced based upon the number of such lunches and suppers served for which the State receives donated foods.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section in any State in which FNS administers the Child Care Food Program in any nonresidential child care institution, FNS shall withhold from the funds payable to such State under this section an amount equal to the ratio of the number of lunches and suppers served in such institutions in which the program is administered by the FNS and for which cash payments are provided to the total number of lunches and suppers served in that program and for which cash in lieu of payments are received, in all nonresidential child care institutions in the State.
[47 FR 15982, Apr. 13, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 39120, July 22, 1993]
§ 240.5
Cash in lieu of donated foods for commodity schools.
(a) The school food authority of a commodity school may elect (1) to receive cash payments in lieu of up to five cents per lunch of the value specified in § 250.4(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter to be used for donated-food processing and handling expenses, or (2) to have such payments retained for use on its behalf by the State agency. The school food authority shall consult with commodity schools before making the election.
(b) When a school food authority makes an election regarding receipt of cash payments and the amount of any payments to be received under this paragraph, such election shall be binding on the school food authority for the school year to which the election applies.
(c) The State agency shall (1) no later than May 14, 1982 for the school year ending June 30, 1982, and no later than August 15 of each subsequent school year, contact all school food authorities of commodity schools to learn their election regarding cash payments under this section and the amount of any such payments, and (2) forward this information to the distributing agency and FNSRO, in accordance with § 210.14(d)(2) of this chapter.
§ 240.6
Funds for States which have phased out facilities.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, any State which phased out its food distribution facilities prior to June 30, 1974, may, for purposes of the National School Lunch Program, the Summer Food Service Program for Children, and the Child Care Food Program, elect to receive cash payments in lieu of donated foods. Where such an election is made, FNS shall make cash payments to such State in an amount equivalent in value to the donated foods (or cash in lieu thereof) to which the State would otherwise have been entitled under section 6(e) of the Act, if it had retained its food distribution facilities, except that the amount may be based on the number of meals served in the current school year, rather than on the number of meals served in the preceding school year with a subsequent reconciliation.
[47 FR 15982, Apr. 13, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 39120, July 22, 1993]
§ 240.7
Payments to States.
(a) Funds to be paid to any State agency under § 240.3 of this part for disbursement to program schools shall be made available by means of United States Treasury Department checks. The State agency shall use the funds received without delay for the purpose for which issued.
(b) Funds to be paid to any State agency under § 240.4(a) for disbursement to nonresidential child care institutions and funds to be paid to any State agency under § 240.6 for disbursement to program schools, service institutions, or nonresidential child care institutions shall be made available by means of Letters of Credit issued by FNS in favor of the State agency. The State agency shall:
(1) Obtain funds needed to pay school food authorities, nonresidential child care institutions, and service institutions, as applicable through presentation by designated State Officials of a Payment Voucher on Letter of Credit (Treasury Form GFO 7578) in accordance with procedures prescribed by
FNS and approved by the United States Treasury Department;
(2) Submit requests for funds on a monthly basis in such amounts as necessary to make payments with respect to meals served the previous month;
(3) Use the funds received without delay for the purpose for which drawn.
(c) FNS shall make any cash payments elected under § 240.5 of this part by increasing the amount of the Letter of Credit or, where applicable, of the Federal Treasury check, in accordance with the information provided under § 240.5(c) of this part.
(d) Funds received by State agencies pursuant to this part for disbursement to program schools and to commodity schools shall not be subject to the matching provisions of § 210.6 of part 210 of this chapter.
§ 240.8
Payments to program schools, service institutions, nonresidential child care institutions and commodity schools.
(a) Each State agency shall promptly and equitably disburse any cash received in lieu of donated foods under this part to eligible program schools, service institutions and nonresidential child care institutions, as applicable. Funds withheld from States under §§ 240.3 and 240.4 shall be disbursed to eligible program schools, service institutions, and nonresidential child care institutions by FNSRO's in the same manner.
(b) Unless the school food authority of a commodity school elects to have cash payments for donated-food processing and handling expenses retained for use on its behalf by the State agency, the State agency shall make such payments to the school food authority of such a school on a monthly basis in an amount equal to the number of lunches served (as reported in accordance with § 210.13(a) of this chapter) times the value per lunch elected by the school food authority in accordance with § 240.5 of this part. For the period November 11, 1981, through the close of the month in which this part is published in the
Federal Register,
a retroactive payment shall be made, where applicable, to the school food authority of a commodity school based on the number of lunches served during that period which meet the nutritional requirements specified in § 210.10 of this chapter.
§ 240.9
Use of funds.
(a) Funds made available to school food authorities (for program schools), service institutions and nonresidential child care institutions under this part shall be used only to purchase United States agricultural commodities and other foods for use in their food service under the National School Lunch Program, Child Care Food Program, or Summer Food Service Program for Children, as applicable. Such foods shall be limited to those necessary to meet the requirements set forth in § 210.10 of part 210 of this chapter, § 225.10 of part 225 of this chapter and § 226.10 of part 226 of this chapter, respectively. On or before disbursing funds to school food authorities (for program schools), service institutions and nonresidential child care institutions, State agencies and FNSRO's shall notify them of the reason for special disbursement, the purpose for which these funds may be used, and, if possible, the amount of funds they will receive.
(b) Cash payments received under § 240.5 of this part shall be used only to pay donated-food processing and handling expenses of commodity schools.
(c) Funds provided under this part shall be subject to 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
[47 FR 15982, Apr. 13, 1982, as amended at 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 240.10
Unobligated funds.
State agencies shall release to FNS any funds paid to them under this part which are unobligated at the end of each fiscal year. Release of funds by any State agency shall be made as soon as practicable, but in any event, not later than 30 days following demand by FNS. Release of funds shall be reflected by a related adjustment in the State agency's Letter of Credit where appropriate or payment by State check where the funds have been paid by United States Treasury Department check.
§ 240.11
Records and reports.
(a) State agencies and distributing agencies shall maintain records and reports on the receipt and disbursement of funds made available under this part, and shall retain such records and reports for a period of three years after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain, except that, if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(b) State agencies shall establish controls and procedures which will assure that the funds made available under this part are not included in determining the State's matching requirements under § 210.6 of part 210 of this chapter.
Pt. 245

# PART 245—DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR FREE AND REDUCED PRICE MEALS AND FREE MILK IN SCHOOLS
Sec.
245.1
General purpose and scope.
245.2
Definitions.
245.3
Eligibility standards and criteria.
245.4
Exceptions for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
245.5
Public announcement of the eligibility criteria.
245.6
Application, eligibility and certification of children for free and reduced price meals and free milk.
245.6a
Verification requirements.
245.7
Hearing procedure for families and local educational agencies.
245.8
Nondiscrimination practices for children eligible to receive free and reduced price meals and free milk.
245.9
Special assistance certification and reimbursement alternatives.
245.10
Action by local educational agencies.
245.11
Second review of applications.
245.12
Action by State agencies and FNSROs.
245.13
State agencies and direct certification requirements.
245.14
Fraud penalties.
245.15
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1752, 1758, 1759a, 1772, 1773, and 1779.
§ 245.1
General purpose and scope.
(a) This part established the responsibilities of State agencies, Food and Nutrition Service Regional Offices, school food authorities or local educational agencies, as defined in § 245.2, as applicable in providing free and reduced price meals and free milk in the National School Lunch Program (7 CFR part 210), the School Breakfast Program (7 CFR part 220), the Special Milk Program for Children (7 CFR part 215), and commodity schools. Section 9 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended, and sections 3 and 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, require schools participating in any of the programs and commodity schools to make available, as applicable, free and reduced price lunches, breakfasts, and at the option of the School Food Authority for schools participating only in the Special Milk Program free milk to eligible children.
(b) This part sets forth the responsibilities under these Acts of State agencies, the Food and Nutrition Service Regional Offices, school food authorities or local educational agencies, as applicable, with respect to the establishment of income guidelines, determination of eligibility of children for free and reduced price meals, and for free milk and assurance that there is no physical segregation of, or other discrimination against, or overt identification of children unable to pay the full price for meals or milk.
(Sec. 803, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1758))
[Amdt. 6, 39 FR 30337, Aug. 22, 1974, as amended by Amdt. 10, 41 FR 28783, July 13, 1976; 47 FR 31852, July 23, 1982; 72 FR 63792, Nov. 13, 2007]
§ 245.2
Definitions.
Adult
means any individual 21 years of age or older.
Categorically eligible
means considered income eligible for free meals or free milk, as applicable, based on documentation that a child is a member of a
Family
, as defined in this section, and one or more children in that family are receiving assistance under
SNAP, FDPIR
or the
TANF
program, as defined in this section. A
Foster child,
Homeless child
, a
Migrant child
, a
Head Start child
and a
Runaway child
, as defined in this section, are also categorically eligible. Categorical eligibility and automatic eligibility may be used synonymously.
Commodity school
means a school which does not participate in the National School Lunch Program under part 210 of this chapter, but which enters into an agreement as provided in § 210.15a(b) to receive commodities donated under part 250 of this chapter for a nonprofit lunch program.
Current income
means income, as defined in § 245.6(a), received during the month prior to application. If such income does not accurately reflect the household's annual rate of income, income shall be based on the projected annual household income. If the prior year's income provides an accurate reflection of the household's current annual income, the prior year may be used as a base for the projected annual rate of income.
Direct certification
means determining a child is eligible for free meals or free milk, as applicable, based on documentation obtained directly from the appropriate State or local agency or individuals authorized to certify that the child is a member of a household receiving assistance under
SNAP
, as defined in this section; is a member of a household receiving assistance under
FDPIR
or under the
TANF
program, as defined in this section; a
Foster child,
Homeless child
, a
Migrant child,
a
Head Start child
and a
Runaway child
, as defined in this section.
Disclosure
means reveal or use individual children's program eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility process for a purpose other than for the purpose for which the information was obtained. The term refers to access, release, or transfer of personal data about children by means of print, tape, microfilm, microfiche, electronic communication or any other means.
Documentation
means:
(1) The completion of a free and reduced price school meal or free milk application which includes:
(i) For households applying on the basis of income and household size, names of all household members; income received by each household member, identified by source of the income (such as earnings, wages, welfare, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, and social security and other cash income); the signature of an adult household member; and the last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application or an indication that the adult does not possess a social security number; or
(ii) For a child who is receiving assistance under
SNAP, FDPIR
or
TANF
, as defined in this section, the child's name and appropriate SNAP or TANF case number or FDPIR case number or other FDPIR identifier and signature of an adult household member.
(2) In lieu of completion of the free and reduced price meal application:
(i) Information obtained from the State or local agency responsible for administering
SNAP, FDPIR
or
TANF
, as defined in this section. Documentation for these programs includes the name of the child; a statement certifying that the child is a member of a household receiving assistance under
SNAP, FDPIR
or
TANF
, as defined in this section; information in sufficient detail to match the child attending school in the local educational agency with the name of a child who is a member of one of the applicable programs as defined in this section; the signature of the official from the applicable program who is authorized to provide such documentation on behalf of that program and the date that the official signed the certification statement;
(ii) A letter or other document provided to the household by the agency administering
FDPIR
or the
TANF
program, as defined in this section or by the court, entity, or official authorized to administer an eligible program for a
Foster child,
a
Homeless child,
a
Migrant child,
a
Head Start child,
or a
Runaway child
as defined in this section.
(iii) Information from the local educational agency, such as enrollment information or information from applications submitted for free or reduced price meals, or from SNAP, FDPIR or TANF program officials that indicate there are children in a
Family,
as defined in this section, who were not documented as receiving assistance under SNAP, FDPIR or TANF, in order to extend categorical eligibility to such children as found in § 245.6(b)(7). Documentation for these purposes is the information discussed in paragraph (2)(i)
of this definition
,
plus a written statement by a local educational agency official briefly explaining how the presence of additional children in the family was determined.
(iv) Information obtained from an official responsible for determining if a child is a
Foster child,
a
Homeless child,
a
Migrant child,
a
Head Start child,
or a
Runaway child,
as defined in the section. Documentation for these children includes the name of the child; a statement certifying that the child has been determined eligible for that program or is enrolled in the Head Start Program; information in sufficient detail to match the child attending school in the local educational agency with the name of a child who has been determined eligible for that program or is enrolled in an eligible Head Start Program; the signature of the official from the program who is authorized to provide such documentation on behalf of that program and the date that the official signed the certification statement. Documentation may also be a list of children, a computer match, or a court document that includes this information.
(v) When a signature is impracticable to obtain, such as in a computer match, the local educational agency shall have a method to ensure that a responsible official can attest to the accuracy of the information provided.
Family
means a group of related or nonrelated individuals, who are not residents of an institution or boarding house, but who are living as one economic unit.
FDPIR
means the food distribution program for households on Indian reservations operated under part 253 of this title.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service, United States Department of Agriculture.
FNSRO where applicable
means the appropriate Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office when that agency administers the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program or Special Milk Program with respect to nonprofit private schools.
Foster child
means a child who is formally placed by a court or an agency that administers a State plan under parts B or E of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 621
et seq.
). It does not include a child in an informal arrangement that may exist outside of State or court based systems.
Free meal
means a meal for which neither the child nor any member of his family pays or is required to work in the school or in the school's food service.
Free milk
means milk served under the regulations governing the Special Milk Program and for which neither the child nor any member of his family pays or is required to work in the school or in the school's food service.
Head Start child
means a child enrolled as a participant in a Head Start program authorized under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831
et seq.
)
Homeless child
means a child identified as lacking a fixed, regular and adequate nighttime residence, as specified under section 725(a) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2)) by the local educational agency liaison, director of a homeless shelter or other individual identified by FNS.
Household
means “family” as defined in this section.
Household application
means an application for free and reduced price meal or milk benefits, submitted by a household for a child or children who attend school(s) in the same local educational agency.
Income eligibility guidelines
means the family-size income levels prescribed annually by the Secretary for use by States in establishing eligibility for free and reduced price meals and for free milk.
Local educational agency
means a public board of education or other public or private nonprofit authority legally constituted within a State for either administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service function for, public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools in a city, county, township, school district, or other political subdivision of a State, or for a combination of school districts or counties that is recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its public or private nonprofit elementary schools or secondary schools. The term also includes any other public or private nonprofit institution or agency
having administrative control and direction of a public or private nonprofit elementary school or secondary school, including residential child care institutions, Bureau of Indian Affairs schools, and educational service agencies and consortia of those agencies, as well as the State educational agency in a State or territory in which the State educational agency is the sole educational agency for all public or private nonprofit schools.
Meal
means a lunch or meal supplement or a breakfast which meets the applicable requirements prescribed in §§ 210.10, 210.15a, and 220.8 of this chapter.
Medicaid
means the State medical assistance program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
).
Migrant child
means a child identified as meeting the definition of migrant in section 1309 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6399) by the State or local Migrant Education Program coordinator or the local educational liaison, or other individual identified by FNS.
Milk
means pasteurized fluid types of unflavored or flavored whole milk, lowfat milk, skim milk, or cultured buttermilk which meet State and local standards for such milk except that, in the meal pattern for infants (0 to 1 year of age) milk means unflavored types of whole fluid milk or an equivalent quantity of reconstituted evaporated milk which meet such standards. In Alaska, Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Virgin Islands, if a sufficient supply of such types of fluid milk cannot be obtained, “milk” shall include reconstituted or recombined milk. All milk should contain vitamins A and D at levels specified by the Food and Drug Administration and consistent with State and local standards for such milk.
Nonprofit
means exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Operating day
means a day that reimbursable meals are offered to eligible students under the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program.
Reduced price meal
means a meal which meets all of the following criteria: (1) The price shall be less than the full price of the meal; (2) the price shall not exceed 40 cents for a lunch and 30 cents for a breakfast; and (3) neither the child nor any member of his family shall be required to supply an equivalent value in work for the school or the school's food service.
Runaway child
means a child identified as a runaway receiving assistance under a program under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701
et seq.
) by the local educational liaison, or other individual in accordance with guidance issued by FNS.
Service institution
shall have the meaning ascribed to it in part 225 of this chapter.
School, school food authority,
and other terms and abbreviations used in this part shall have the meanings ascribed to them in part 210 of this chapter.
SNAP
means the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011
et. seq.
) and operated under parts 271 and 283 of this chapter.
SNAP household
means any individual or group of individuals currently certified to receive assistance as a household from
SNAP.
Special Assistance Certification and Reimbursement Alternatives
means the three optional alternatives for free and reduced price meal application and claiming procedures in the National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program which are available to those School Food Authorities with schools in which at least 80 percent of the enrolled children are eligible for free or reduced price meals, or schools which are currently, or who will be serving all children free meals.
State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP)
means the State medical assistance program under title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa
et seq.
).
TANF
means the State funded program under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act that the Secretary determines complies with standards established by the Secretary that ensure
that the standards under the State program are comparable to or more restrictive than those in effect on June 1, 1995. This program is commonly referred to as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, although States may refer to the program by another name.
Verification
means confirmation of eligibility for free or reduced price benefits under the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program. Verification shall include confirmation of income eligibility and, at State or local discretion, may also include confirmation of any other information required in the application which is defined as
Documentation
in § 245.2. Such verification may be accomplished by examining information provided by the household such as wage stubs, or by other means as specified in § 245.6a(a)(7). If a SNAP or TANF case number or a FDPIR case number or other identifier is provided for a child, verification for such child shall only include confirmation that the child is a member of a household receiving SNAP, TANF or FDPIR benefits. Verification may also be completed through direct contact with one or more of the public agencies as specified in § 245.6a(g).
(Secs. 801, 803, 812; Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1759(a), 1773, 1758))

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 245.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 245.3
Eligibility standards and criteria.
(a) Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall by July 1 of each year announce family-size income standards to be used by local educational agencies, as defined in § 245.2, under the jurisdiction of such State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, in making eligibility determinations for free or reduced price meals and for free milk. Such family size income standards for free and reduced price meals and for free milk shall be in accordance with Income Eligibility Guidelines published by the Department by notice in the
Federal Register.
(b) Each participating local educational agency and all participating schools under its jurisdiction must adhere to the eligibility criteria specified in this part. Local educational agencies must include these eligibility criteria in their policy statement as required under § 245.10 and it must be publicly announced in accordance with the provisions of § 245.5. Additionally, each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, must require that local educational agencies accept as income eligible for free meals and free milk, children who are categorically eligible for those benefits based on documentation of eligibility, as specified in § 245.6 (b).
(c) Each School Food Authority shall serve free and reduced price meals or free milk in the respective programs to children eligible under its eligibility criteria. When a child is not a member of a family (as defined in § 245.2), the child shall be considered a family of one. In any school which participates in more than one of the child nutrition programs, eligibility shall be applied uniformly so that eligible children receive the same benefits in each program. If a child transfers from one school to another school under the jurisdiction of the same School Food Authority, his eligibility for free or reduced price meals or for free milk, if previously established, shall be transferred to, and honored by, the receiving school if it participates in the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program, Special Milk Program and the School Food Authority has elected to provide free milk, or is a commodity-only school.
(Sec. 8, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3623 (42 U.S.C. 1758); sec. 5, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3619 (42 U.S.C. 1772); 42 U.S.C. 1785, 1766, 1772, 1773(e), sec. 203, Pub. L. 96-499, 94 Stat. 2599; secs. 807 and 808, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535, 42 U.S.C. 1772, 1784, 1760; sec. 803, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1758))
[Amdt. 8, 40 FR 57207, Dec. 8, 1975; 40 FR 58281, Dec. 16, 1975, as amended by Amdt. 10, 41 FR 28783, July 13, 1976; Amdt. 13, 44 FR 33049, June 8, 1979; 47 FR 31852, July 23, 1982; 72 FR 63793, Nov. 13, 2007; 76 FR 22800, Apr. 25, 2011]
§ 245.4
Exceptions for Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
Because the State agencies of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands provide free meals or milk to all children in
schools under their jurisdiction, regardless of the economic need of the child's family, they are not required to make individual eligibility determinations or publicly announce eligibility criteria. Instead, such State agencies may use a statistical survey to determine the number of children eligible for free or reduced price meals and milk on which a percentage factor for the withdrawal of special cash assistance funds will be developed subject to the following conditions:
(a) State agencies shall conduct a statistical survey once every three years in accordance with the standards provided by FNS;
(b) State agencies shall submit the survey design to FNS for approval before proceeding with the survey;
(c) State agencies shall conduct the survey and develop the factor for withdrawal between July 1 and December 31 of the first school year of the three-year period;
(d) State agencies shall submit the results of the survey and the factor for fund withdrawal to FNS for approval before any reimbursement may be received under that factor;
(e) State agencies shall keep all material relating to the conduct of the survey and determination of the factor for fund withdrawal in accordance with the record retention requirements in § 210.8(e)(14) of this chapter;
(f) Until the results of the triennial statistical survey are available, the factor for fund withdrawal will be based on the most recently established percentages. The Department shall make retroactive adjustments to the States' Letter of Credit, if appropriate, for the year of the survey;
(g) If any school in these States wishes to charge a student for meals, the State agency, School Food Authority and school shall comply with all the applicable provisions of this part and parts 210, 215 and 220 of this chapter.
(Sec. 9, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat 1336 (42 U.S.C. 1759a); secs. 807 and 808, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535, 42 U.S.C. 1772, 1784, 1760; 44 U.S.C. 3506)
[Amdt. 18, 45 FR 52771, Aug. 8, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 51366, Oct. 20, 1981; 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982]
§ 245.5
Public announcement of the eligibility criteria.
(a) After the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, notifies the local educational agency (as defined in § 245.2) that its criteria for determining the eligibility of children for free and reduced price meals and for free milk have been approved, the local educational agency (as defined in § 245.2) shall publicly announce such criteria:
Provided however,
that no such public announcement shall be required for boarding schools, residential child care institutions (see § 210.2 of this chapter, definition of
Schools
), or a school which includes food service fees in its tuition, where all attending children are provided the same meals or milk. Such announcements shall be made at the beginning of each school year or, if notice of approval is given thereafter, within 10 days after the notice is received. The public announcement of such criteria, as a minimum, shall include the following:
(1) Except as provided in § 245.6(b), a letter or notice and application distributed on or about the beginning of each school year, to the parents of all children in attendance at school. The letter or notice shall contain the following information:
(i) In schools participating in a meal service program, the eligibility criteria for
reduced price
benefits with an explanation that households with incomes less than or equal to the reduced price criteria would be eligible for either free or reduced price meals, or in schools participating in the free milk option, the eligibility criteria for
free
milk benefits;
(ii) How a household may make application for free or reduced price meals or for free milk for its children;
(iii) An explanation that an application for free or reduced price benefits cannot be approved unless it contains complete information as described in paragraph (1)(i) of the definition of
Documentation
in § 245.2;
(iv) An explanation that households with children who are members of currently certified SNAP, FDPIR or TANF households may submit applications for these children with the abbreviated information described in paragraph
(2)(ii) of the definition of
Documentation
in § 245.2;
(v) An explanation that the information on the application may be verified at any time during the school year;
(vi) How a household may apply for benefits at any time during the school year as circumstances change;
(vii) A statement to the effect that children having parents or guardians who become unemployed are eligible for free or reduced price meals or for free milk during the period of unemployment,
Provided,
that the loss of income causes the household income during the period of unemployment to be within the eligibility criteria;
(viii) The statement: “In the operation of child feeding programs, no child will be discriminated against because of race, sex, color, national origin, age or disability;”
(ix) An explanation that Head Start enrollees and foster, homeless, migrant, and runaway children, as defined in § 245.2, are categorically eligible for free meals and free milk and their families should contact the school for more information;
(x) How a household may appeal the decision of the local educational agencywith respect to the application under the hearing procedure set forth in § 245.7. The letter or notice shall be accompanied by a copy of the application form required under § 245.6.
(xi) A statement to the effect that the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) participants may be eligible for free or reduced price meals.
(2) On or about the beginning of each school year, a public release, containing the same information supplied to parents, and including both free and reduced price eligibility criteria shall be provided to the informational media, the local unemployment office, and to any major employers contemplating large layoffs in the area from which the school draws its attendance.
(b) Copies of the public release shall be made available upon request to any interested persons. Any subsequent changes in a school's eligibility criteria during the school year shall be publicly announced in the same manner as the original criteria were announced.
(Sec. 803, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1758); Pub. L. 79-396, 60 Stat. 231 (42 U.S.C. 1751); Pub. L. 89-642, 80 Stat. 885-880 (42 U.S.C. 1773); Pub. L. 91-248, 84 Stat. 207 (42 U.S.C. 1759))
[Amdt. 8, 40 FR 57207, Dec. 8, 1975]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 245.5, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 245.6
Application, eligibility and certification of children for free and reduced price meals and free milk.
(a)
General requirements—content of application and descriptive materials.
Each local educational agency, as defined in § 245.2, for schools participating in the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program or Special Milk Program or a commodity only school, shall provide meal benefit forms for use by families in making application for free or reduced price meals or free milk for their children.
(1)
Household applications.
The State agency or local educational agency must provide a form that permits a household to apply for all children in that household who attend schools in the same local educational agency. The local educational agency must provide newly enrolled students with an application and determine eligibility promptly. The local educational agency cannot require the household to submit an application for each child attending its schools. The application shall be clear and simple in design and the information requested therein shall be limited to that required to demonstrate that the household does, or does not, meet the eligibility criteria for free or reduced price meals, respectively, or for free milk, provided by the local educational agency.
(2)
Understandable communications.
Any communication with households for eligibility determination purposes must be in an understandable and uniform format and to the maximum extent practicable, in a language that parents and guardians can understand.
(3)
Electronic availability.
In addition to the distribution of applications and descriptive materials in paper form as
provided for in this section, the local educational agency may establish a system for executing household applications electronically and using electronic signatures. The electronic submission system must comply with the disclosure requirements in this section and with technical assistance and guidance provided by FNS. Descriptive materials may also be made available electronically by the local educational agency.
(4)
Transferring eligibility status.
When a student transfers to a new school district, the new local educational agency may accept the eligibility determination from the student's former local educational agency without incurring liability for the accuracy of the initial determination. As required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the accepting local educational agency must make changes that occur as a result of verification activities or coordinated review findings conducted in that local educational agency.
(5)
Required income information.
The information requested on the application with respect to the current income of the household must be limited to:
(i) The income received by each member identified by the household member who received the income or an indication which household members had no income; and
(ii) The source of the income (such as earnings, wages, welfare, pensions, support payments, unemployment compensation, social security and other cash income). Other cash income includes cash amounts received or withdrawn from any source, including savings, investments, trust accounts, and other resources which are available to pay for a child's meals or milk.
(6)
Household members and social security numbers.
The application must require applicants to provide the names of all household members. In addition, the last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application must be provided. If the adult member signing the application does not possess a social security number, the household must so indicate. However, if application is being made for a child(ren) who is a member of a household receiving assistance under the SNAP, or is in a FDPIR or TANF household, the application shall enable the household to provide the appropriate SNAP or TANF case number or FDPIR case number or other FDPIR identifier in lieu of names of all household members, household income information and social security number.
(7)
Adult member's signature.
The application must be signed by an adult member of the family. The application must contain clear instructions with respect to the submission of the completed application to the official or officials designated by the local educational agency to make eligibility determinations. A household must be permitted to file an application at any time during the school year. A household may, but is not required to, report any changes in income, household size or program participation during the school year.
(8)
Required statements for the application.
(i) The application and descriptive materials must include substantially the following statements:
(A) “The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act requires the information on this application. You do not have to give the information, but if you do not, we cannot approve your child for free or reduced-price meals. You must include the last four digits of the social security number of the adult household member who signs the application. The last four digits of the social security number are not required when you list a Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Program or Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR) case number or other FDPIR identifier for your child or when you indicate that the adult household member signing the application does not have a social security number. We will use your information to determine if your child is eligible for free or reduced-price meals, and for administration and enforcement of the lunch and breakfast programs. We MAY share your eligibility information with education, health, and nutrition programs
to help them evaluate, fund, or determine benefits for their programs, auditors for program reviews, and law enforcement officials to help them look into violations of program rules.”
(B) “Foster, migrant, homeless, and runaway children, and children enrolled in a Head Start program are categorically eligible for free meals and free milk. If you are completing an application for these children, contact the school for more information.”
(ii) When either the State agency or the local educational agency plans to use or disclose children's eligibility information for non-program purposes, additional information, as specified in paragraph (h) of this section, must be added to this statement. State agencies and local educational agencies are responsible for drafting the appropriate statement.
(9)
Attesting to information on the application.
The application must also include a statement, immediately above the space for signature, that the person signing the application certifies that all information furnished in the application is true and correct, that the application is being made in connection with the receipt of Federal funds, that school officials may verify the information on the application, and that deliberate misrepresentation of the information may subject the applicant to prosecution under applicable State and Federal criminal statutes. Applicants must attest to changes in information as specified in this paragraph (b), if changes are voluntarily reported in writing during the eligibility period.
(b)
Direct certification.
In lieu of requiring a household to complete the free and reduced price meal or free milk application, as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the local educational agency must certify children as eligible for free meals or free milk in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section or may certify children as eligible for free meals or free milk in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If a household also submits an application for directly certified children, the direct certification eligibility determination will take precedence.
(1)
Mandatory direct certification of children in SNAP households.
(i) All local educational agencies conducting eligibility determinations must directly certify children who are members of a household receiving assistance under
SNAP,
as defined in § 245.2, in School Year 2008-2009, which begins on July 1, 2008, and each subsequent school year.
(ii) Schools participating only in the Special Milk Program authorized under part 215 of this chapter may directly certify children for that program but are not required to conduct direct certification with SNAP. In addition, residential child care institutions, as defined in paragraph (c) of the definition of
School
in § 210.2 of this chapter, that do not have non-residential children are also not required to conduct direct certification with SNAP.
(iii) Beginning in School Year 2012-2013, direct certification shall be conducted using a data matching technique only and letters to household for direct certification may be used only as an additional means to notify households of children's eligibility based on receipt of SNAP benefits. The last period that letters to households may be used as the primary method for direct certification is School Year 2011-12.
(iv) Each State agency must enter into an agreement with the State agency conducting eligibility determinations for
SNAP.
The agreement must specify the procedures that will be used to facilitate the direct certification of children who are members of a household receiving assistance under
SNAP,
as defined in § 245.2. The agreement must address procedures to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(9) of this section. Direct certification must allow for notifying parents that their children have been determined eligible for free meals or free milk, as applicable, and that no further application is required. Such agreements must address how phase-out of non-electronic matches as the primary method for conducting direct certification for SNAP will be completed by School Year 2012-2013. The agreement shall be maintained by the State agency.
(v) Local educational agencies and schools currently operating Provision 2 or Provision 3 in non-base years, or the
community eligibility provision, as permitted under § 245.9, are required to conduct a data match between Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program records and student enrollment records at least once annually. State agencies may conduct data matching on behalf of LEAs and exempt LEAs from this requirement.
(2)
Children who may be directly certified.
The local educational agency may directly certify children for free meals or free milk based on documentation received from the appropriate State or local agency that administers
FDPIR
or
TANF,
as defined in § 245.2, when that agency indicates that the children are members of a household receiving assistance under one of these programs. In addition, the local educational agency may directly certify children for free meals or free milk based on documentation from the appropriate State or local agency or other appropriate individual, as specified by FNS, that the child is a
Foster child,
a
Homeless child,
a
Migrant,
a
Runaway child,
or a
Head Start child,
as defined in § 245.2.
(3)
Frequency of direct certification contacts with SNAP.
(i) Until School Year 2011-2012, local educational agencies must conduct direct certification activities with
SNAP
at least at the beginning of the school year.
(ii) (A) Beginning in School Year 2011-2012, at a minimum, all local educational agencies must conduct direct certification as follows:
(
1
) At or around the beginning of the school year;
(
2
) Three months after the initial effort; and
(
3
) Six months after the initial effort.
(B) The information used shall be the most recent available.
(iii) The names of all newly enrolled children and all children not certified for free meals shall be submitted for the direct certification required in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) and paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) of this section. Newly enrolled children must be provided with application materials in order to alleviate a delay in receipt of free meals or free milk if direct certification for these children cannot be completed promptly upon enrollment.
(iv) State agencies are encouraged to conduct direct certification more frequently to obtain information about newly enrolled children or children who may be newly certified for that program's benefits.
(4)
Frequency of direct certification with other programs.
Local educational agencies opting to conduct direct certification activities with FDPIR or TANF should conduct such activities at or around the beginning of the school year. Obtaining information about foster, homeless, migrant, or runaway children or Head Start enrollees should be done, at a minimum, at or around the beginning of the school year and when newly enrolled children or children newly eligible for those programs are being certified.
(5)
Direct certification documentation.
(i) The required documentation for direct certification is provided in paragraph (2) of the definition of
Documentation
in § 245.2.
(ii) (A) Beginning in School Year 2012-2013, direct certification with
SNAP
shall be conducted using a data matching technique only. Letters to households for direct certification may be used only as an additional means to notify households of children's eligibility based on receipt of SNAP benefits. The last period that letters to households may be used as the primary method for direct certification is School Year 2011-2012. While such notices cannot be the primary method used by a state to document receipt of
SNAP,
the local educational agency shall accept such a letter if presented by a household.
(B) Letters or other documents may be used as the primary method for direct certification to document receipt of
FDPIR
or
TANF
benefits.
(iii) Individual notices from officials of eligible programs for a
Foster child,
a
Homeless child,
a
Migrant child,
a
Runaway child,
or a
Head Start child,
as defined in § 245.2, may continue to be used. These notices are provided to school officials who must certify these children as eligible for free meals or free milk, as applicable, without further application, upon receipt of such notice.
(6)
Officials who can provide documentation for direct certification.
(i) The
local educational agency must accept documentation from officials of the State or local agency that administers SNAP, certifying that a child is a member of a household receiving assistance under
SNAP
as defined in § 245.2, or officials of the State or local agency that administers
FDPIR
or
TANF,
as defined in § 245.2, certifying that a child is a member of a household receiving assistance under one of those programs.
(ii) For a
Foster child,
as defined in § 245.2, an official document indicating the status of the child as a foster child from an appropriate State or local agency or a court where the foster child received placement may provide appropriate documentation. In the case of a child who is a
Homeless child,
as defined in § 245.2, the director of a homeless shelter or the local educational liaison for homeless children and youth may provide the appropriate documentation. The Migrant Education Program coordinator or the local educational liaison, as applicable, may provide the supporting documentation for a
Migrant child,
as defined in § 245.2. For a
Head Start child,
as defined in § 245.2, an official from that program may supply the documentation indicating enrollment in the Head Start program. Once the appropriate official has provided the direct certification documentation to the local educational agency, the child must have free benefits made available as soon as possible but no later than three operating days after the date the local educational agency receives the direct certification documentation.
(7)
Extension of eligibility to all children in a family.
If any child is identified as a member of a household receiving assistance under SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF, all children in the
Family,
as defined in § 245.2, shall be categorically eligible for free meals or free milk. This applies to children identified through direct certification or through a free and reduced price application.
(8)
Foster, Homeless, Migrant, Runaway, or Head Start Children.
To be categorically eligible as a Foster child, a Homeless child, a Migrant child, a Runaway child, or a Head Start child, the child's individual eligibility or participation for these programs shall be established. Categorical eligibility based on these programs shall not be extended to other children in the household.
(9)
Confidential nature of direct certification information.
Information about children or their households obtained through the direct certification process must be kept confidential and is subject to the limitations on disclosure of information in section 9 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. 1758. Therefore, information that a household is receiving benefits from SNAP, FDPIR or TANF or that a child is participating in another program which makes children categorically eligible for free school meals or free milk must be used solely for the purposes of direct certification for determining children's eligibility for free school meals or free milk and as otherwise permitted under § 245.6(f).
(10)
Notification to families.
For children who are directly certified, local educational agencies are not required to provide application materials and notice to parents informing them of the availability of free and reduced price meal benefits, as specified in § 245.5(a), when that information is distributed by mail, individualized student packets, or other method which prevents overt identification of children eligible for direct certification.
(c)
Determination of eligibility
—(1)
Duration of eligibility.
Except as otherwise specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, eligibility for free or reduced price meals, as determined through an approved application or by direct certification, must remain in effect for the entire school year and for up to 30 operating days into the subsequent school year. The local educational agency must determine household eligibility for free or reduced price meals either through direct certification or the application process at or about the beginning of the school year. The local educational agency must determine eligibility for free or reduced price meals when a household submits an application or, if feasible, through direct certification, at any time during the school year.
(2)
Use of prior year's eligibility status.
Prior to the processing of applications
or the completion of direct certification procedures for the current school year, children from households with approved applications or documentation of direct certification on file from the preceding year, shall be offered reimbursable free and reduced price meals or free milk, as appropriate. The local educational agency must extend eligibility to newly enrolled children when other children in their household (as defined in § 245.2) were approved for benefits the previous year. However, applications and documentation of direct certification from the preceding year shall be used only to determine eligibility for the first 30 operating days following the first operating day at the beginning of the school year, or until a new eligibility determination is made in the current school year, whichever comes first. At the State agency's discretion, students who, in the preceding school year, attended a school operating a special assistance certification and reimbursement alternative (as permitted in § 245.9)) may be offered free reimbursable meals for up to 30 operating days or until a new eligibility determination is made in the current school year, whichever comes first.
(3)
Exceptions for year-long duration of eligibility
—(i)
Voluntary reporting of changes.
Households are not required to report changes in circumstances during the school year, but a household may voluntarily contact the local educational agency to report any changes. If the household voluntarily reports a change in income or in program participation that would result in loss of categorical eligibility, the local educational agency may only reduce benefits if the household requests the reduction in writing, for example, by submitting a new application.
(ii) Households must attest to changes in information as specified in § 245.6(a)(9). In addition, benefits cannot be reduced by information received through other sources without the written consent of the household, except for information received through verification.
(iii)
Changes resulting from verification or administrative reviews.
The local educational agency must change the children's eligibility status when a change is required as a result of verification activities conducted under § 245.6a or as a result of a review conducted in accordance with § 210.18 of this chapter.
(4)
Calculating income.
The local educational agency must use the income information provided by the household on the application to calculate the household's total current income. When a household submits an application containing complete documentation, as defined in § 245.2, and the household's total current income is at or below the eligibility limits specified in the Income Eligibility Guidelines as defined in § 245.2, the children in that household must be approved for free or reduced price benefits, as applicable.
(5)
Categorical eligibility
—(i)
SNAP, FDPIR, TANF
When a household submits an application containing the required SNAP, FDPIR or TANF documentation, as defined under
Documentation
in § 245.2, all children in that household shall be categorically eligible for free meals or free milk. Additionally, when the local educational agency obtains confirmation of eligibility for these programs through direct certification, all children who are identified as members of a
Family,
as defined in § 245.2, shall be categorically eligible for free meals or milk.
(ii)
Foster, homeless, migrant, andrunaway children and Head Start enrollees.
Upon receipt of
Documentation,
as defined in paragraph (2)(ii) and (2)(iv) of the definition in § 245.2, the local educational agency must approve such children for free benefits without further application.
(6)
Notice of approval
—(i)
Income applications.
The local educational agency must notify the household of the children's eligibility and provide the eligible children the benefits to which they are entitled within 10 operating days of receiving the application from the household.
(ii)
Direct Certification.
Households approved for benefits based on information provided by the appropriate State or local agency responsible for the administration of the SNAP, FDPIR or TANF must be notified, in writing, that their children are eligible for free meals or free milk, that no application for free and reduced price school meals or free milk is required. The notice of
eligibility must also inform the household that the parent or guardian must notify the local educational agency if they do not want their children to receive free benefits. However, when the parent or guardian transmits a notice of eligibility provided by the SNAP, FDPIR or TANF office, the local educational agency is not required to provide a separate notice of eligibility. The local educational agency must notify, in writing, households with children who are approved on the basis of documentation that they are
Categorically eligible,
as defined in § 245.2, that their children are eligible for free meals or free milk, and that no application is required.
(iii)
Households declining benefits.
Children from households that notify the local educational agency that they do not want free or reduced price benefits must have their benefits discontinued as soon as possible. Any notification from the household declining benefits must be documented and maintained on file, as required under paragraph (e) of this section, to substantiate the eligibility determination.
(7)
Denied applications and the notice of denial.
When the application furnished by a family is not complete or does not meet the eligibility criteria for free or reduced price benefits, the local educational agency must document and retain the reasons for ineligibility and must retain the denied application. In addition, the local educational agency must promptly provide written notice to each family denied benefits. At a minimum, this notice shall include:
(i) The reason for the denial of benefits, e.g. income in excess of allowable limits or incomplete application;
(ii) Notification of the right to appeal;
(iii) Instructions on how to appeal; and
(iv) A statement reminding parents that they may reapply for free or reduced price benefits at any time during the school year.
(8)
Appeals of denied benefits.
A family that wishes to appeal an application that was denied may do so in accordance with the procedures established by the local educational agency as required by § 245.7. However, prior to initiating the hearing procedure, the family may request a conference to provide the opportunity for the family and local educational agency officials to discuss the situation, present information, and obtain an explanation of the data submitted in the application or the decision rendered. The request for a conference shall not in any way prejudice or diminish the right to a fair hearing. The local educational authority shall promptly schedule a fair hearing, if requested.
(d)
Households that fail to apply.
After the letter to parents and the applications have been disseminated, the local educational agency may determine, based on information available to it, that a child for whom an application has not been submitted meets the local educational agency's eligibility criteria for free and reduced price meals or for free milk. In such a situation, the local educational agency shall complete and file an application for such child setting forth the basis of determining the child's eligibility. When a local educational agency has obtained a determination of individual family income and family-size data from other sources, it need not require the submission of an application for any child from a family whose income would qualify for free or reduced price meals or for free milk under the local educational agency's established criteria. In such event, the School Food Authority shall notify the family that its children are eligible for free or reduced price meals or for free milk. Nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to provide authority for the local educational agency to make eligibility determinations or certifications by categories or groups of children.
(e)
Recordkeeping.
The local educational agency must maintain documentation substantiating eligibility determinations on file for 3 years after the date of the fiscal year to which they pertain, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the documentation must be maintained as long as required for resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(f)
Disclosure of children's free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information to education and certain other
programs and individuals without parental consent.
The State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, may disclose aggregate information about children eligible for free and reduced price meals or free milk to any party without parental notification and consent when children cannot be identified through release of the aggregate data or by means of deduction. Additionally, the State agency or local educational agency also may disclose information that identifies children eligible for free and reduced price meals or free milk to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the programs and the individuals specified in this paragraph (f) without parent/guardian consent. The State agency or local educational agency that makes the free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility determination is responsible for deciding whether to disclose children's free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information.
(1)
Persons authorized to receive eligibility information.
Only persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in paragraphs (f)(2) or (f)(3) of this section may have access to children's eligibility information, without parental consent. Persons considered directly connected with administration or enforcement of a program or activity listed in paragraphs (f)(2) or (f)(3) of this section are Federal, State, or local program operators responsible for the ongoing operation of the program or activity or responsible for program compliance. Program operators may include persons responsible for carrying out program requirements and monitoring, reviewing, auditing, or investigating the program. Program operators may include contractors, to the extent those persons have a need to know the information for program administration or enforcement. Contractors may include evaluators, auditors, and others with whom Federal or State agencies and program operators contract with to assist in the administration or enforcement of their program in their behalf.
(2)
Disclosure of children's names and eligibility status only.
The State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental consent, children's names and eligibility status (whether they are eligible for free or reduced price meals or free milk) to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of:
(i) A Federal education program;
(ii) A State health program or State education program administered by the State or local education agency;
(iii) A Federal, State, or local means-tested nutrition program with eligibility standards comparable to the National School Lunch Program (i.e., food assistance programs for households with incomes at or below 185 percent of the Federal poverty level); or
(iv) A third party contractor assisting in verification of eligibility efforts by contacting households who fail to respond to requests for verification of their eligibility.
(3)
Disclosure of all eligibility information in addition to eligibility status.
In addition to children's names and eligibility status, the State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, may disclose, without parental consent, all eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meals or free milk eligibility process (including all information on the application or obtained through direct certification) to:
(i) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966. This means that all eligibility information obtained for the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program or Special Milk Program may be disclosed to persons directly connected with administering or enforcing regulations under the National School Lunch or School Breakfast Programs (Parts 210 and 220, respectively, of this chapter), Child and Adult Care Food Program (Part 226 of this chapter), Summer Food Service Program (Part 225 of this chapter) and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) (Part 246 of this chapter);
(ii) The Comptroller General of the United States for purposes of audit and examination; and
(iii) Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of the programs listed in paragraphs (g)(3) and (g)(4) of this section.
(4)
Use of free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information by other programs other than Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP).
State agencies and local educational agencies may use free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information for administering or enforcing the National School Lunch, Special Milk or School Breakfast Programs (Parts 210, 215 and 220, respectively, of this chapter). Additionally, any other Federal, State, or local agency charged with administering or enforcing these programs may use the information for that purpose. Individuals and programs to which children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information has been disclosed under this section may use the information only in the administration or enforcement of the receiving program. No further disclosure of the information may be made.
(g)
Disclosure of children's eligibility information to Medicaid and/or SCHIP, unless parents decline.
Children's free or reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information only may be disclosed to Medicaid or SCHIP when both the State agency and the local educational agency so elect, the parent/guardian does not decline to have their eligibility information disclosed and the other provisions described in paragraph (i) of this section are met. Provided that both the State agency and local educational agency opt to allow the disclosure of eligibility information to Medicaid and/or SCHIP, the State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, may disclose children's names, eligibility status (whether they are eligible for free or reduced price meals or free milk), and any other eligibility information obtained through the free and reduced price meal or free milk application or obtained through direct certification to persons directly connected with the administration of Medicaid or SCHIP. Persons directly connected to the administration of Medicaid and SCHIP are State employees and persons authorized under Federal and State Medicaid and SCHIP requirements to carry out initial processing of Medicaid or SCHIP applications or to make eligibility determinations for Medicaid or SCHIP.
(1) The State agency must ensure that:
(i) The child care institution and health insurance program officials have a written agreement that requires the health insurance program agency to use the eligibility information to seek to enroll children in Medicaid and SCHIP; and
(ii) Parents/guardians are notified that their eligibility information may be disclosed to Medicaid or SCHIP and given an opportunity to decline to have their children's eligibility information disclosed, prior to any disclosure.
(2)
Use of children's free and reduced price meal eligibility information by Medicaid/SCHIP.
Medicaid and SCHIP agencies and health insurance program operators receiving children's free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information may use the information to seek to enroll children in Medicaid or SCHIP. The Medicaid and SCHIP enrollment process may include targeting and identifying children from low-income households who are potentially eligible for Medicaid or SCHIP for the purpose of seeking to enroll them in Medicaid or SCHIP. No further disclosure of the information may be made. Medicaid and SCHIP agencies and health insurance program operators also may verify children's eligibility in a program under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 or the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act.
(h)
Notifying households of potential uses and disclosures of children's eligibility information.
Households must be informed that the information they provide on the free and reduced price meal or free milk application will be used to determine eligibility for free and reduced price meals or free milk and that eligibility information may be disclosed to other programs.
(1) For disclosures to programs, other than Medicaid or SCHIP, that are permitted access to children's eligibility information, without parent/guardian consent, the State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, must
notify parents/guardians at the time of application that their children's free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information may be disclosed. The State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, must add substantially the following statement to the statement required under paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section, “We may share your eligibility information with education, health, and nutrition programs to help them evaluate, fund, or determine benefits for their programs; auditors for program reviews; and law enforcement officials to help them look into violations of program rules.” For children determined eligible through direct certification, the notice of potential disclosure may be included in the document informing parents/guardians of their children's eligibility for free meals or free milk through direct certification.
(2) For disclosure to Medicaid or SCHIP, the State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, must notify parents/guardians that their children's free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information will be disclosed to Medicaid and/or SCHIP unless the parent/guardian elects not to have their information disclosed. Additionally, the State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, must give parents/guardians an opportunity to elect not to have their information disclosed to Medicaid or SCHIP. Only the parent or guardian who is a member of the household or family for purposes of the free and reduced price meal or free milk application may decline the disclosure of eligibility information to Medicaid or SCHIP. The notification must inform parents/guardians that they are not required to consent to the disclosure, that the information, if disclosed, will be used to identify children eligible for and to seek to enroll children in a health insurance program, and that their decision will not affect their children's eligibility for free and reduced price meals or free milk. The notification may be included in the letter/notice to parents/guardians that accompanies the free and reduced price meal or free milk application, on the application itself or in a separate notice provided to parents/guardians. The notice must give parents/guardians adequate time to respond. The State agency or local educational agency, as appropriate, must add substantially the following statement to the statement required under paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section, “We may share your information with Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program, unless you tell us not to. The information, if disclosed, will be used to identify eligible children and seek to enroll them in Medicaid or SCHIP.” For children determined eligible through direct certification, the notice of potential disclosure and opportunity to decline the disclosure may be included in the document informing parents/guardians of their children's eligibility for free meal or free milk through direct certification.
(i)
Other disclosures.
State agencies and local educational agencies that plan to use or disclose information about children eligible for free or reduced price meals or free milk in ways not specified in this section must obtain written consent from the child's parent or guardian prior to the use or disclosure. Only a parent or guardian who is a member of the child's household for purposes of the free and reduced price meal or free milk application may give consent to the disclosure of free and reduced price meal eligibility information.
(1) The consent must identify the information that will be shared and how the information will be used.
(2) The consent statement must be signed and dated by the child's parent or guardian who is a member of the household for purposes of the free and reduced price meal or free milk application.
(3) There must be a statement informing parents and guardians that failing to sign the consent will not affect the child's eligibility for free or reduced price meals or free milk and that the individuals or programs receiving the information will not share the information with any other entity or program.
(4) Parents/guardians must be permitted to limit the consent only to those programs with which they wish to share information.
(j)
Agreements with programs/individuals receiving children's free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information.
(1) An agreement with programs or individuals receiving free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information is recommended for programs other than Medicaid or SCHIP. The agreement or MOU should include information similar to that required for disclosures to Medicaid and SCHIP specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
(2) The State agency or school food authorities, as appropriate, must have a written agreement with the State or local agency or agencies administering Medicaid or SCHIP prior to disclosing children's free and reduced price meal or free milk eligibility information. At a minimum, the agreement must:
(i) Identify the health insurance program or health agency receiving children's eligibility information;
(ii) Describe the information that will be disclosed;
(iii) Require that the Medicaid or SCHIP agency use the information obtained and specify that the information must be used to seek to enroll children in Medicaid or SCHIP;
(iv) Require that the Medicaid or SCHIP agency describe how they will use the information obtained;
(v) Describe how the information will be protected from unauthorized uses and disclosures;
(vi) Describe the penalties for unauthorized disclosure; and
(vii) Be signed by both the Medicaid or SCHIP program or agency and the State agency or child care institution, as appropriate.
(k)
Penalties for unauthorized disclosure or misuse of information.
In accordance with section 9(b)(6)(C) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(6)(C)), any individual who publishes, divulges, discloses or makes known in any manner, or to any extent not authorized by statute or this section, any information obtained under this section will be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for up to 1 year, or both.
(Sec. 803, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1758))
[35 FR 14065, Sept. 4, 1970]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 245.6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 245.6a
Verification requirements.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Eligible programs.
For the purposes of this section, the following programs qualify as programs for which a case number may be provided in lieu of income information and that may be used for direct verification purposes:
(i)
SNAP,
as defined in 245.2;
(ii) The Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR) as defined in § 245.2; and
(iii) A State program funded under the program of block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy families (TANF) as defined in § 245.2.
(2)
Error prone application.
For the purposes of this section, “error prone application” means an approved household application that indicates monthly income within $100 or annual income within $1,200 of the applicable income eligibility limit for free or for reduced meals.
(3)
Non-response rate.
For the purposes of this section, “non-response rate” means the percentage of approved household applications for which verification information was not obtained by the local educational agency after verification was attempted. The non-response rate is reported on the FNS-742 in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(4)
Official poverty line.
For the purposes of this section, “official poverty line” means that described in section 1902(l)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(l)(2)(A)).
(5)
Sample size.
For the purposes of this section, “sample size” means the number of approved applications that a local educational agency is required to verify based on the number of approved applications on file as of October 1 of the current school year.
(6)
School year.
For the purposes of this section, a school year means a period of 12 calendar months beginning July 1 of any year and ending June 30 of the following year.
(7)
Sources of information.
For the purposes of this section, sources of information for verification may include
written evidence, collateral contacts, and systems of records as follows:
(i) Written evidence shall be used as the primary source of information for verification. Written evidence includes written confirmation of a household's circumstances, such as wage stubs, award letters, and letters from employers. Whenever written evidence is insufficient to confirm income information on the application or current eligibility, the local educational agency may require collateral contacts.
(ii) Collateral contacts are verbal confirmations of a household's circumstances by a person outside of the household. The collateral contact may be made in person or by phone. The verifying official may select a collateral contact if the household fails to designate one or designates one which is unacceptable to the verifying official. If the verifying official designates a collateral contact, the contact shall not be made without providing written or oral notice to the household. At the time of this notice, the household shall be informed that it may consent to the contact or provide acceptable documentation in another form. If the household refuses to choose one of these options, its eligibility shall be terminated in accordance with the normal procedures for failure to cooperate with verification efforts. Collateral contacts could include employers, social service agencies, and migrant agencies.
(iii) Agency records to which the State agency or local educational agency may have access are not considered collateral contacts. Information concerning income, household size, or SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF eligibility, maintained by other government agencies to which the State agency, the local educational agency, or school can legally gain access, may be used to confirm a household's income, size, or receipt of benefits. Information may also be obtained from individuals or agencies serving foster, homeless, migrant, or runaway children, as defined in § 245.2. Agency records may be used for verification conducted after the household has been notified of its selection for verification or for the direct verification procedures in paragraph (g) of this section.
(iv) Households which dispute the validity of income information acquired through collateral contacts or a system of records shall be given the opportunity to provide other documentation.
(b)
Deadline and extensions for local educational agencies
—(1)
Deadline.
The local education agency must complete the verification efforts specified in paragraph (c) of this section not later than November 15 of each school year.
(2)
Deadline extensions.
(i) The local educational agency may request an extension of the November 15 deadline, in writing, from the State agency. The State agency may approve an extension up to December 15 of the current school year due to natural disaster, civil disorder, strike or other circumstances that prevent the local educational agency from timely completion of verification activities.
(ii) In the case of natural disaster, civil disorder or other local conditions, USDA may substitute alternatives for the verification deadline in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3)
Beginning verification activities.
The local educational agency may conduct verification activity once it begins the application approval process for the current school year and has approved applications on file. However, the final required sample size must be based on the number of approved applications on file as of October 1.
(c)
Verification requirement
—(1)
General.
The local educational agency must verify eligibility of children in a sample of household applications approved for free and reduced price meal benefits for that school year.
(i) A State may, with the written approval of FNS, assume responsibility for complying with the verification requirements of this section on behalf of its local educational agencies. When assuming such responsibility, States may qualify, if approved by FNS, to use one of the alternative sample sizes provided for in paragraph (c)(4) of this section if qualified under paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) An application must be approved if it contains the essential documentation specified in the definition of
Documentation
in § 245.2 and, if applicable, the household meets the income eligibility criteria for free or reduced price
benefits. Verification efforts must not delay the approval of applications.
(2)
Exceptions from verification.
Verification is not required in residential child care institutions; in schools in which FNS has approved special cash assistance claims based on economic statistics regarding per capita income; or in schools in which all children are served with no separate charge for food service and no special cash assistance is claimed. Local educational agencies in which all schools participate in the special assistance certification and reimbursement alternatives specified in § 245.9 shall meet the verification requirement only in those years in which applications are taken for all children in attendance. Verification of eligibility is not required of households if all children in the household are determined eligible based on documentation provided by the State or local agency responsible for the administration of the SNAP, FDPIR or TANF or if all children in the household are determined to be foster, homeless, migrant, or runaway, as defined in § 245.2.
(3)
Standard sample size.
Unless eligible for an alternative sample size under paragraph (d) of this section, the sample size for each local educational agency shall equal the lesser of:
(i) Three (3) percent of all applications approved by the local educational agency for the school year, as of October 1 of the school year, selected from error prone applications; or
(ii) 3,000 error prone applications approved by the local educational agency for the school year, as of October 1 of the school year.
(iii) Local educational agencies shall not exceed the standard sample size in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) or (c)(3)(ii) of this section, as applicable, and, unless eligible for one of the alternative sample sizes provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the local educational agency shall not use a smaller sample size than those in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) or (c)(3)(ii) of this section, as applicable.
(iv) If the number of error-prone applications exceeds the required sample size, the local educational agency shall select the required sample at random, i.e., each application has an equal chance of being selected, from the total number of error-prone applications.
(4)
Alternative sample sizes.
If eligible under paragraph (d) of this section for an alternative sample size, the local educational agency may use one of the following alternative sample sizes:
(i)
Alternative One.
The sample size shall equal the lesser of:
(A) 3,000 of all applications selected at random from applications approved by the local educational agency as of October 1 of the school year; or
(B) Three (3) percent of all applications selected at random from applications approved by the local educational agency as of October 1 of the school year.
(ii)
Alternative Two.
The sample size shall equal the lesser of the sum of:
(A) 1,000 of all applications approved by the local educational agency as of October 1 of the school year, selected from error prone applications or
(B) One (1) percent of all applications approved by the local educational agency as of October 1 of the school year, selected from error prone applications PLUS
(C) The lesser of:
(
1
) 500 applications approved by the local educational agency as of October 1 of the school year that provide a case number in lieu of income information showing participation in an eligible program as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or
(
2
) One-half (
1/2
) of one (1) percent of applications approved by the local educational agency as of October 1 of the school year that provide a case number in lieu of income information showing participation in an eligible program as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(5)
Completing the sample size.
When there are an insufficient number of error prone applications or applications with case number to meet the sample sizes provided for in paragraphs (c)(3) or (c)(4) of this section, the local educational agency shall select, at random, additional approved applications to comply with the specified sample size requirements.
(6)
Local conditions.
In the case of natural disaster, civil disorder, strike or other local conditions as determined
by FNS, FNS may substitute alternatives for the sample size and sample selection criteria in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section.
(7)
Verification for cause.
In addition to the required verification sample, local educational agencies must verify any questionable application and should, on a case-by-case basis, verify any application for cause such as an application on which a household reports zero income or when the local educational agency is aware of additional income or persons in the household. Any application verified for cause is not considered part of the required sample size. If the local educational agency verifies a household's application for cause, all verification procedures in this section must be followed.
(d)
Eligibility for alternative sample sizes
—(1)
State agency oversight.
At a minimum, the State agency shall establish a procedure for local educational agencies to designate use of an alternative sample size and may set a deadline for such notification. The State agency may also establish criteria for reviewing and approving the use of an alternative sample size, including deadlines for submissions.
(2)
Lowered non-response rate.
Any local educational agency is eligible to use one of the alternative sample sizes in paragraph (c)(4) of this section for any school year when the non-response rate for the preceding school year is less than twenty percent.
(3)
Improved non-response rate.
A local educational agency with more than 20,000 children approved by application as eligible for free or reduced price meals as of October 1 of the school year is eligible to use one of the alternative sample sizes in paragraph (c)(4) of this section for any school year when the non-response rate for the preceding school year is at least ten percent below the non-response rate for the second preceding school year.
(4)
Continuing eligibility for alternative sample sizes.
The local educational agency must annually determine if it is eligible to use one of the alternative sample sizes provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If qualified, the local educational agency shall contact the State agency in accordance with procedures established by the State agency under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e)
Activities prior to household notification
—(1)
Confirmation of a household's initial eligibility.
(i) Prior to conducting any other verification activity, an individual, other than the individual who made the initial eligibility determination, shall review for accuracy each approved application selected for verification to ensure that the initial determination was correct. If the initial determination was correct, the local educational agency shall verify the approved application. If the initial determination was incorrect, the local educational agency must:
(A) If the eligibility status changes from reduced price to free, make the increased benefits immediately available and notify the household of the change in benefits; the local educational agency will then verify the application;
(B) If the eligibility status changes from free to reduced price, first verify the application and then notify the household of the correct eligibility status after verification is completed and, if required, send the household a notice of adverse action in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section; or
(C) If the eligibility status changes from free or reduced price to paid, send the household a notice of adverse action in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section and do not conduct verification on this application and select a similar application (for example, another error-prone application) to replace it.
(ii) The requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section are waived if the local educational agency is using a technology-based system that demonstrates a high level of accuracy in processing an initial eligibility determination based on the income eligibility guidelines for the National School Lunch Program. Any local educational agency that conducts a confirmation review of all applications at the time of certification meets this requirement. The State agency may request documentation to support the accuracy of the local educational agency's system. If the State agency determines that the technology-based system is inadequate, it may require that
the local educational agency conduct a confirmation review of each application selected for verification.
(2)
Replacing applications.
The local educational agency may, on a case-by-case basis, replace up to five percent of applications selected and confirmed for verification. Applications may be replaced when the local educational agency determines that the household would be unable to satisfactorily respond to the verification request. Any application removed shall be replaced with another approved application selected on the same basis (i.e., an error-prone application must be substituted for a withdrawn error-prone application).
(f)
Verification procedures and assistance for households
—(1)
Notification of selection.
Other than households verified through the direct verification process in paragraph (g) of this section, households selected for verification must be notified in writing that their applications were selected for verification. The written statement must include a telephone number for assistance as required in paragraph (f)(5) of this section. Any communications with households concerning verification must be in an understandable and uniform format and, to the maximum extent practicable, in a language that parents and guardians can understand. These households must be advised of the type of information or documents the school accepts. Households selected for verification must be informed that:
(i) They are required to submit the requested information to verify eligibility for free or reduced-price meals, by the date determined by the local educational agency.
(ii) They may, instead, submit proof that the children receive SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF assistance, as explained in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(iii) They may, instead, request that the local educational agency contact the appropriate officials to confirm that their children are foster, homeless, migrant, or runaway, as defined in § 245.2.
(iv) Failure to cooperate with verification efforts will result in the termination of benefits.
(2)
Documentation timeframe.
Households selected and notified of their selection for verification must provide documentation of income. The documentation must indicate the source, amount and frequency of all income and can be for any point in time between the month prior to application for school meal benefits and the time the household is requested to provide income documentation.
(3)
SNAP FDPIR or TANF recipients.
On applications where households have furnished SNAP or TANF case numbers or FDPIR case numbers or other FDPIR identifiers, verification shall be accomplished by confirming with the SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF office that at least one child who is eligible because a case number was furnished, is a member of a household participating in one of the eligible programs in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The household may also provide a copy of “Notice of Eligibility” for the SNAP, FDPIR or the TANF Program or equivalent official documentation issued by the SNAP, FDPIR or TANF office which confirms that at least one child who is eligible because a case number was provided is a member of a household receiving assistance under the SNAP, FDPIR or the TANF program. An identification card for these programs is not acceptable as verification unless it contains an expiration date. If it is not established that at least one child is a member of a household receiving assistance under the SNAP, FDPIR or the TANF program (in accordance with the timeframe in paragraph (f)(2) of this section), the procedures for adverse action specified in paragraph (j) of this section must be followed.
(4)
Household cooperation.
If a household refuses to cooperate with efforts to verify, eligibility for free or reduced price benefits shall be terminated in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section. Households which refuse to complete the verification process and which are consequently determined ineligible for such benefits shall be counted toward meeting the local educational agency's required sample of verified applications.
(5)
Telephone assistance.
The local educational agency shall provide a
telephone number to households selected for verification to call free of charge to obtain information about the verification process. The telephone number must be prominently displayed on the letter to households selected for verification.
(6)
Followup attempts.
The local educational agency shall make at least one attempt to contact any household that does not respond to a verification request. The attempt may be through a telephone call, e-mail, mail or in person and must be documented by the local educational agency. Non-response to the initial request for verification includes no response and incomplete or ambiguous responses that do not permit the local educational agency to resolve the children's eligibility for free or reduced price meal and milk benefits. The local educational agency may contract with another entity to conduct followup activity in accordance with § 210.21 of this chapter, the use and disclosure of information requirements of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and this section.
(7)
Eligibility changes.
Based on the verification activities, the local educational agency shall make appropriate modifications to the eligibility determinations made initially. The local educational agency must notify the household of any change. Households must be notified of any reduction in benefits in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section. Households with reduced benefits or that are longer eligible for free or reduced price meals must be notified of their right to reapply at any time with documentation of income or participation in one of the eligible programs in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(g)
Direct verification.
Local educational agencies may conduct direct verification activities with the eligible programs defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and with the public agency that administers the State plan for medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
), (Medicaid), and under title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa
et seq.
), the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) as defined in § 245.2. Records from the public agency may be used to verify income and program participation. The public agency's records are subject to the timeframe in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. Direct verification must be conducted prior to contacting the household for documentation.
(1)
Names submitted.
The local educational agency must only submit the names of school children certified for free or reduced price meal benefits or free milk to the agency administering an eligible program, the Medicaid program or the SCHIP program. Names and other identifiers of adult or non-school children must not be submitted for direct verification purposes.
(2)
Eligible programs.
If information obtained through direct verification of an application for free or reduced price meal benefits indicates a child is participating in one of the eligible programs in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, no additional verification is required.
(3)
States with Medicaid Income Limits of 133%.
In States in which the income eligibility limit applied in the Medicaid program or in SCHIP is not more than 133% of the official poverty line or in States that otherwise identify households that have income that is not more than 133% of the official poverty line, records from these agencies may be used to verify eligibility. If information obtained through direct verification with these programs verifies the household's eligibility status, no additional verification is required.
(4)
States with Medicaid Income Limits between 133%-185%.
In States in which the income eligibility limit applied in the Medicaid program or in SCHIP exceeds 133% of the official poverty line, direct verification information must include either the percentage of the official poverty line upon which the applicant's Medicaid participation is based or Medicaid income and Medicaid household size in order to determine that the applicant is either at or below 133% of the Federal poverty line, or is between 133% and 185% of the Federal poverty line. Verification for children approved for free meals is complete if Medicaid data indicates that the percentage is at or below 133% of the Federal poverty line. Verification for children approved for reduced price meals
is complete if Medicaid data indicates that the percentage is at or below 185% of the Federal poverty line. If information obtained through direct verification with these programs verifies eligibility status, no additional verification is required.
(5)
Documentation timeframe.
For the purposes of direct verification, documentation must be the most recent available but such documentation must indicate eligibility for participation or income within the 180-day period ending on the date of application. In addition, local educational agencies may use documentation, which must be within the 180-day period ending on the date of application, for any one month or for all months in the period from the month prior to application through the month direct verification is conducted. The information provided only needs to indicate eligibility for participation in the program at that point in time, not that the child was certified for that program's benefits within the 180-day period.
(6)
Incomplete information.
If it is the information provided by the public agency does not verify eligibility, the local educational agency must conduct verification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. In addition, households must be able to dispute the validity of income information acquired through direct verification and shall be given the opportunity to provide other documentation.
(h)
Verification reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
By February 1, each local educational agency must report information related to its annual statutorily required verification activity, which excludes verification conducted in accordance with paragraph (c)(7) of this section, to the State agency in accordance with guidelines provided by FNS. These required data elements will be specified by FNS. Contingent upon new funding to support this purpose, FNS will also require each local educational agency to collect and report the number of students who were terminated as a result of verification but who were reinstated as of February 15th. The first report containing this data element would be required in the school year beginning July 1, 2005 and each school year thereafter. State agencies may develop paper or electronic reporting forms to collect this data from local educational agencies, as long as all required data elements are collected from each local educational agency. Local educational agencies shall retain copies of the information reported under this section and all supporting documents for a minimum of 3 years. All verified applications must be readily retrievable on an individual school basis and include all documents submitted by the household for the purpose of confirming eligibility, reproductions of those documents, or annotations made by the determining official which indicate which documents were submitted by the household and the date of submission. All relevant correspondence between the households selected for verification and the school or local educational agency must be retained. Local educational agencies are encouraged to collect and report any or all verification data elements before the required dates.
(i)
Nondiscrimination.
The verification efforts shall be applied without regard to race, sex, color, national origin, age, or disability.
(j)
Adverse action.
If verification activities fail to confirm eligibility for free or reduced price benefits or should the household fail to cooperate with verification efforts, the school or local educational agencyshall reduce or terminate benefits, as applicable, as follows: Ten days advance notification shall be provided to households that are to receive a reduction or termination of benefits, prior to the actual reduction or termination. The first day of the 10 day advance notice period shall be the day the notice is sent. The notice shall advise the household of:
(1) The change;
(2) The reasons for the change;
(3) Notification of the right to appeal and when the appeal must be filed to ensure continued benefits while awaiting a hearing and decision;
(4) Instructions on how to appeal; and
(5) The right to reapply at any time during the school year. The reasons for
ineligibility shall be properly documented and retained on file at the local educational agency.
(Sec. 803, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1758))
[48 FR 12510, Mar. 25, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 26034, June 26, 1984; 52 FR 19275, May 22, 1987; 55 FR 19240, May 9, 1990; 56 FR 32950, July 17, 1991; 56 FR 33861, July 24, 1991; 64 FR 50744, Sept. 20, 1999; 64 FR 72474, Dec. 28, 1999; 66 FR 48328, Sept. 20, 2001; 68 FR 53489, Sept. 11, 2003; 72 FR 63795, Nov. 13, 2007; 73 FR 76859, Dec. 18, 2008; 76 FR 22802, Apr. 25, 2011; 78 FR 12230, Feb. 22, 2013; 78 FR 13453, Feb. 28, 2013]
§ 245.7
Hearing procedure for families and local educational agencies.
(a) Each local educational agency of a school participating in the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program or the Special Milk Program or of a commodity only school shall establish a hearing procedure under which:
(1) A family can appeal from a decision made by the local educational agency with respect to an application the family has made for free or reduced price meals or for free milk, and
(2) The local educational agency can challenge the continued eligibility of any child for a free or reduced price meal or for free milk. The hearing procedure shall provide for both the family and the local educational agency:
(i) A simple, publicly announced method to make an oral or written request for a hearing;
(ii) An opportunity to be assisted or represented by an attorney or other person;
(iii) An opportunity to examine, prior to and during the hearing, any documents and records presented to support the decision under appeal;
(iv) That the hearing shall be held with reasonable promptness and convenience, and that adequate notice shall be given as to the time and place of the hearing;
(v) An opportunity to present oral or documentary evidence and arguments supporting a position without undue interference;
(vi) An opportunity to question or refute any testimony or other evidence and to confront and cross-examine any adverse witnesses;
(vii) That the hearing shall be conducted and the decision made by a hearing official who did not participate in making the decision under appeal or in any previously held conference;
(viii) That the decision of the hearing official shall be based on the oral and documentary evidence presented at the hearing and made a part of the hearing record;
(ix) That the parties concerned and any designated representative shall be notified in writing of the decision of the hearing official;
(x) That a written record shall be prepared with respect to each hearing, which shall include the challenge or the decision under appeal, any documentary evidence and a summary of any oral testimony presented at the hearing, the decision of the hearing official, including the reasons therefor, and a copy of the notification to the parties concerned of the decision of the hearing official; and
(xi) That the written record of each hearing shall be preserved for a period of 3 years and shall be available for examination by the parties concerned or their representatives at any reasonable time and place during that period.
(b)
Continuation of benefits.
When a household disagrees with an adverse action which affects its benefits and requests a fair hearing, benefits shall be continued as follows while the household awaits the hearing and decision:
(1) Households that have been approved for benefits and that are subject to a reduction or termination of benefits later in the same school year shall receive continued benefits if they appeal the adverse action within the 10 day advance notice period; and
(2) Households that are denied benefits upon application shall not receive benefits.
(44 U.S.C. 3506; sec. 803, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1758))
[Amdt. 6, 39 FR 30339, Aug. 22, 1974, as amended at 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; 48 FR 12511, Mar. 25, 1983; 72 FR 63796, Nov. 13, 2007]
§ 245.8
Nondiscrimination practices for children eligible to receive free and reduced price meals and free milk.
School Food Authorities and local educational agencies of schools participating in the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program or
Special Milk Program or of commodity only schools shall take all actions that are necessary to insure compliance with the following nondiscrimination practices for children eligible to receive free and reduced price meals or free milk:
(a) The names of the children shall not be published, posted or announced in any manner;
(b) There shall be no overt identification of any of the children by the use of special tokens or tickets or by any other means;
(c) The children shall not be required to work for their meals or milk;
(d) The children shall not be required to use a separate dining area, go through a separate serving line, enter the dining area through a separate entrance or consume their meals or milk at a different time;
(e) When more than one lunch or breakfast or type of milk is offered which meets the requirements prescribed in § 210.10, § 220.8 or the definition of
Milk
in § 215.2 of this chapter, the children shall have the same choice of meals or milk that is available to those children who pay the full price for their meal or milk.
[Amdt. 6, 39 FR 30339, Aug. 22, 1974, as amended at 72 FR 63796, Nov. 13, 2007]
§ 245.9
Special assistance certification and reimbursement alternatives.
(a)
Provision 1.
A Local educational agency of a school having at least 80 percent of its enrolled children determined eligible for free or reduced price meals may, at its option, authorize the school to reduce annual certification and public notification for those children eligible for
free meals
to once every two consecutive school years. This alternative shall be known as provision 1 and the following requirements shall apply:
(1) A Local educational agency of a school operating under provision 1 requirements shall publicly notify in accordance with § 245.5, parents of enrolled children who are receiving free meals once every two consecutive school years, and shall publicly notify in accordance with § 245.5, parents of all other enrolled children on an annual basis.
(2) The 80 percent enrollment eligibility for this alternative shall be based on the school's March enrollment data of the previous school year, or on other comparable data.
(3) A Local educational agency of a school operating under provision 1, shall count the number of free, reduced price and paid meals served to children in that school as the basis for monthly reimbursement claims.
(b)
Provision 2.
A local educational agency may certify children for free and reduced price meals for up to 4 consecutive school years in the schools which serve meals at no charge to all enrolled children; provided that public notification and eligibility determinations are in accordance with §§ 245.5 and 245.3, respectively, during the base year as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. The Provision 2 base year is the first year, and is included in the 4-year cycle. The following requirements apply:
(1)
Meals at no charge.
Participating schools must serve reimbursable meals, as determined by a point of service observation, or as otherwise approved under part 210 of this chapter, to all participating children at no charge.
(2)
Cost differential.
The local educational agency of a school participating in Provision 2 must pay, with funds from non-Federal sources, the difference between the cost of serving lunches and/or breakfasts at no charge to all participating children and Federal reimbursement.
(3)
Meal counts.
During the base year, even though meals are served to participating students at no charge, schools must take daily meal counts of reimbursable student meals by type (free, reduced price, and paid) at the point of service, or as otherwise approved under part 210 of this chapter. During the non-base years, participating Provision 2 schools must take total daily meal counts (not by type) of reimbursable student meals at the point of service, or as otherwise approved under part 210 of this chapter. For the purpose of calculating reimbursement claims in the non-base years, local educational agencies must establish school specific monthly or annual claiming percentages, as follows:
(i)
Monthly percentages.
In any given Provision 2 school, the monthly meal counts of the actual number of meals served by type (free, reduced price, and paid) during the base year must be converted to monthly percentages for each meal type. For example, the free lunch percentage is derived by dividing the monthly total number of reimbursable free lunches served by the total number of reimbursable lunches served in the same month (free, reduced price and paid). The percentages for the reduced price and paid lunches are calculated using the same method as the above example for free lunches. These three percentages, calculated at the end of each month of the first school year, are multiplied by the corresponding monthly lunch count total of all reimbursable lunches served in the second, third and fourth consecutive school years, and applicable extensions, in order to calculate reimbursement claims for free, reduced price and paid lunches each month. The free, reduced price and paid percentages for breakfasts and, as applicable, snacks, are calculated using the same method; or
(ii)
Annual percentages.
In any given Provision 2 school, the actual number of all reimbursable meals served by type (free, reduced price, and paid) during the base year must be converted to an annual percentage for each meal type. For example, the free lunch percentage is derived by dividing the annual total number of reimbursable free lunches served by the annual total number of reimbursable lunches served for all meal types (free, reduced price and paid). The percentages for the reduced price and paid lunches are calculated using the same method as the above example for free lunches. These three percentages, calculated at the end of the base year, are multiplied by the total monthly lunch count of all reimbursable lunches served in each month of the second, third and fourth consecutive school years, and applicable extensions, in order to calculate reimbursement claims for free, reduced price and paid lunches each month. The free, reduced price and paid percentages for breakfasts and, as applicable, snacks, are calculated using the same method for each type of meal service.
(4)
Local educational agency claims review process.
During the Provision 2 base year (not including a streamlined base year under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section), local educational agencies are required to review the lunch count data for each school under its jurisdiction to ensure the accuracy of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement in accordance with § 210.8(a)(2) of this chapter. During non-base years and streamlined base years, local educational agencies must compare each Provision 2 school's total daily meal counts to the school's total enrollment, adjusted by an attendance factor. The local educational agency must promptly follow-up as specified in § 210.8(a)(4) of this chapter when the claims review suggests the likelihood of lunch count problems. When a school elects to operate Provision 2 only in the School Breakfast Program, local educational agencies must continue to comply with the claims review requirements of § 210.8(a)(2) of this chapter for the National School Lunch Program.
(5)
Verification.
Except as otherwise specified in § 245.6a(a)(5), local educational agencies are required to conduct verification in accordance with § 245.6a. When a school elects to participate under Provision 2 or for all of the meal programs in which it participates (breakfast 7 CFR part 220 and/or lunch 7 CFR part 210), the applications from that school are excluded from the local educational agency's required verification sample size and are exempt from verification during non-base years.
(6)
Base year.
For purposes of this paragraph (b), the term
base year
means the last school year for which eligibility determinations were made and meal counts by type were taken or the school year in which a school conducted a streamlined base year as authorized under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. Schools shall offer reimbursable meals to all students at no charge during the Provision 2 base year except as otherwise specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.
(i)
Duration of the base year.
The base year must begin at the start of the school year or as otherwise specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
Delayed implementation.
At State agency discretion, schools may delay implementation of Provision 2 for a period of time not to exceed the first claiming period of the school year in which the base year is established. Schools implementing this option may conduct standard meal counting and claiming procedures, including charging students eligible for reduced price and paid meals, during the first claiming period of the school year. Such schools must submit claims reflecting the actual number of meals served by type. In subsequent years, such schools shall convert the actual number of reimbursable meals served by type (free, reduced price and paid) during the remaining claiming periods of the base year, in which meals were served at no charge to all participating students, to an annual percentage for each type of meal. The annual claiming percentages must be applied to the total number of reimbursable meals served during the first claiming period in all non-base years of operation for that cycle and any extensions.
(c)
Extension of Provision 2.
At the end of the initial cycle, and each subsequent 4-year cycle, the State agency may allow a school to continue under Provision 2 for another 4 years using the claiming percentages calculated during the most recent base year if the local educational agency can establish, through available and approved socioeconomic data, that the income level of the school's population, as adjusted for inflation, has remained stable, declined or has had only negligible improvement since the base year.
(1)
Extension criteria.
Local educational agencies must submit to the State agency available and approved socioeconomic data to establish whether the income level of a school's population, as adjusted for inflation, remained constant with the income level of the most recent base year.
(i)
Available and approved sources of socioeconomic data.
Pre-approved sources of socioeconomic data which may be used by local educational agencies to establish the income level of the school's population are: local data collected by the city or county zoning and economic planning office; unemployment data; local SNAP certification data including direct certification; Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations data; statistical sampling of the school's population using the application or equivalent income measurement process; and, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families data (provided that the eligibility standards were the same or more restrictive in the base year as the current year with allowance for inflation). To grant an extension using pre-approved socioeconomic data sources, State agencies must review and evaluate the socioeconomic data submitted by the local educational agency to ensure that it is reflective of the school's population, provides equivalent data for both the base year and the last year of the current cycle, and demonstrates that the income level of the school's population, as adjusted for inflation, has remained stable, declined or had only negligible improvement. If the local educational agency wants to establish the income level of the school's population using alternate sources of socioeconomic data, the use of such data must be approved by the Food and Nutrition Service. Data from alternate sources must be reflective of the school's population, be equivalent data for both the base year and the last year of the current cycle, and effectively measure whether the income level of the school's population, as adjusted for inflation, has remained stable, declined or had only negligible improvement.
(ii)
Negligible improvement.
The change in the income level of the school's population shall be considered negligible if there is a 5 percent or less improvement, after adjusting for inflation, over the base year in the level of the socioeconomic indicator which is used to establish the income level of the school's population.
(2)
Extension not approved.
The State agency shall not approve an extension of Provision 2 procedures in those schools for which the available and approved socioeconomic data does not reflect the school's population, is not equivalent data for the base year and the last year of the current cycle, or shows over 5 percent improvement, after adjusting for inflation, in the income level of the school's population. Such schools shall:
(i)
Return to standard meal counting and claiming.
Return to standard meal counting and claiming procedures;
(ii)
Establish a new base year.
Establish a new Provision 2 base year by taking new free and reduced price applications, making new free and reduced price eligibility determinations, and taking point of service counts of free, reduced price and paid meals for the first year of the new cycle. For these schools, the new Provision 2 cycle will be 4 years. Schools electing to establish a Provision 2 base year shall follow procedures contained in paragraph (b) of this section;
(iii)
Establish a streamlined base year.
With prior approval by the State agency, establish a streamlined base year by providing reimbursable meals to all participating students at no charge and developing either enrollment based or participation based claiming percentages.
(A)
Enrollment based percentages.
In accordance with guidance established by the Food and Nutrition Service, establish a new Provision 2 base year by determining program eligibility on the basis of household size and income, and direct certification if applicable, for a statistically valid proportion of the school's enrollment as of October 31, or other date approved by the State agency. The statistically valid measurement of the school's enrollment must be obtained during the first year of the new cycle and meet the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section. Using the data obtained, enrollment based claiming percentages representing a proportion of the school's population eligible for free, reduced price and paid benefits shall be developed and applied to total daily meal counts of reimbursable meals at the point of service, or as otherwise approved under part 210 of this chapter. For schools electing to participate in Provision 2, these percentages shall be used for claiming reimbursement for each year of the new cycle and any extensions; or
(B)
Participation based percentages.
In accordance with guidance established by the Food and Nutrition Service, establish a new Provision 2 base year by determining program eligibility on the basis of household size and income, and direct certification if applicable, for a statistically valid proportion of participating students established over multiple operating days. The statistically valid measurement of the school's student participation must be obtained during the first year of the new cycle and meet the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section. Using the data obtained, participation based claiming percentages representing a proportion of the school's participating students which are eligible for free, reduced price and paid benefits shall be developed and applied to total daily meal counts of reimbursable meals at the point of service or as otherwise approved under part 210 of this chapter. These percentages shall be used for claiming reimbursement for each year of the new cycle and any extensions; or
(iv)
Establish a Provision 3 base year.
Schools may convert to Provision 3 using the procedures contained in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) or (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(d)
Provision 3.
A local educational agency of a school which serves all enrolled children in that school reimbursable meals at no charge during any period for up to 4 consecutive school years may elect to receive Federal cash reimbursement and commodity assistance at the same level as the total Federal cash and commodity assistance received by the school during the last year that eligibility determinations for free and reduced price meals were made and meals were counted by type (free, reduced price and paid) at the point of service, or as otherwise authorized under part 210 of this chapter. Such cash reimbursement and commodity assistance will be adjusted for each of the 4 consecutive school years pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (d), the term base year means the last complete school year for which eligibility determinations were made and meal counts by type were taken or the school year in which a school conducted a streamlined base year as authorized under paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section. The base year must begin at the start of a school year. Reimbursable meals may be offered to all students at no charge or students eligible for reduced price and paid meal benefits may be charged for meals during a
Provision 3 base,
except that
schools conducting a Provision 3 streamlined base year must provide reimbursable meals to all participating students at no charge in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section. The Provision 3 base year immediately precedes, and is not included in, the 4-year cycle. This alternative shall be known as Provision 3, and the following requirements shall apply:
(1)
Meals at no charge.
Participating schools must serve reimbursable meals, as determined by a point of service observation, or as otherwise authorized under part 210 of this chapter, to all participating children at no charge during non-base years of operation or as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, if applicable.
(2)
Cost differential.
The local educational agency of a school participating in Provision 3 must pay, with funds from non-Federal sources, the difference between the cost of serving lunches and/or breakfasts at no charge to all participating children and Federal reimbursement.
(3)
Meal counts.
Participating schools must take total daily meal counts of reimbursable meals served to participating children at the point of service, or as otherwise authorized under part 210 of this chapter, during the non-base years. Such meal counts must be retained at the local level in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. State agencies may require the submission of the meal counts on the local educational agency's monthly Claim for Reimbursement or through other means. In addition, local educational agencies must establish a system of oversight using the daily meal counts to ensure that participation has not declined significantly from the base year. If participation declines significantly, the local educational agency must provide the school with technical assistance, adjust the level of financial assistance received through the State agency or return the school to standard eligibility determination and meal counting procedures, as appropriate. In residential child care institutions, the State agency may approve implementation of Provision 3 without the requirement to obtain daily meal counts of reimbursable meals at the point of service if:
(i) The State agency determines that enrollment, participation and meal counts do not vary; and
(ii) There is an approved mechanism in place to ensure that students will receive reimbursable meals.
(4)
Annual adjustments.
The State agency or local educational agency shall make annual adjustments for enrollment and inflation to the total Federal cash and commodity assistance received by a Provision 3 school in the base year. The adjustments shall be made for increases and decreases in enrollment of children with access to the program(s). The annual adjustment for enrollment shall be based on the school's base year enrollment as of October 31 compared to the school's current year enrollment as of October 31. Another date within the base year may be used if it is approved by the State agency, and provides a more accurate reflection of the school's enrollment or accommodates the reporting system in effect in that State. If another date is used for the base year, the current year date must correspond to the base year date of comparison. State agencies may, at their discretion, make additional adjustments to a participating school's enrollment more frequently than once per school year. If more frequent enrollment is calculated, it must be applied for both upward and downward adjustments. The annual adjustment for inflation shall be effected through the application of the current year rates of reimbursement. To the extent that the number of operating days in the current school year differs from the number of operating days in the base year, and the difference affects the number of meals, a prorata adjustment shall also be made to the base year level of assistance, as adjusted by enrollment and inflation. Upward and downward adjustments to the number of operating days shall be made. Such adjustment shall be effected by either:
(i) Multiplying the average daily meal count by type (free, reduced price and paid) by the difference in the number of operating days between the base year and the current year and adding/subtracting that number of meals from
the Claim for Reimbursement, as appropriate. In developing the average daily meal count by type for the current school year, schools shall use the base year data adjusted by enrollment; or
(ii) Multiplying the dollar amount otherwise payable (i.e., the base year level of assistance, as adjusted by enrollment and inflation) by the ratio of the number of operating days in the current year to the number of operating days in the base year.
(5)
Reporting requirements.
The State agency shall submit to the Department on the monthly FNS-10, Report of School Programs Operations, the number of meals, by type (i.e., monthly meal counts by type for the base year, as adjusted); or the number of meals, by type, constructed to reflect the adjusted levels of cash assistance. State agencies may employ either method to effect payment of reimbursement for Provision 3 schools.
(6)
Local educational agency claims review process.
During the Provision 3 base year (not including a streamlined base year under paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section), local educational agencies are required to review the lunch count data for each school under its jurisdiction to ensure the accuracy of the monthly Claim for Reimbursement in accordance with § 210.8(a)(2) of this chapter. During non-base years and streamlined base years, local educational agencies must conduct their own system of oversight or compare each Provision 3 school's total daily meal counts to the school's total enrollment, adjusted by an attendance factor. The local educational agency must promptly follow-up as specified in § 210.8(a)(4) of this chapter when the claims review suggests the likelihood of lunch count problems. When a school elects to operate Provision 3 only in the School Breakfast Program, local educational agencies must continue to comply with the claims review requirements of § 210.8(a)(2) of this chapter for the National School Lunch Program.
(7)
Verification.
Except as otherwise specified in § 245.6a(a)(5), local educational agencies are required to conduct verification in accordance with § 245.6a. When a school elects to participate under Provision 3 for all of the meal programs in which it participates (breakfast 7 CFR part 220 and/or lunch 7 CFR part 210), the applications from that school are excluded from the local educational agency's required verification sample size and are exempt from verification during non-base years.
(e)
Extension of Provision 3.
At the end of the initial cycle, and each subsequent 4-year cycle, the State agency may allow a school to continue under Provision 3 for another 4 years without taking new free and reduced price applications and meal counts by type. State agencies may grant an extension of Provision 3 if the local educational agency can establish, through available and approved socioeconomic data, that the income level of the school's population, as adjusted for inflation, has remained stable, declined, or has had only negligible improvement since the most recent base year.
(1)
Extension criteria.
Local educational agencies must submit to the State agency available and approved socioeconomic data to establish whether the income level of the school's population, as adjusted for inflation, remained constant with the income level of the most recent base year.
(i)
Available and approved sources of socioeconomic data.
Pre-approved sources of socioeconomic data which may be used by local educational agencies to establish the income level of the school's population are: local data collected by the city or county zoning and economic planning office; unemployment data; local SNAP certification data including direct certification; Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations data; statistical sampling of the school's population using the application process; and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families data (provided that the eligibility standards were the same or more restrictive in the base year as the current year with allowance for inflation). To grant an extension using pre-approved socioeconomic data sources, State agencies must review and evaluate the socioeconomic data submitted by the local educational agency to ensure that it is reflective of the school's population, provides equivalent data for both the base year and the last year
of the current cycle, and demonstrates that the income level of the school's population, as adjusted for inflation, has remained stable, declined or had only negligible improvement. If the local educational agency wants to establish the income level of the school's population using alternate sources of data, the use of such data must be approved by the Food and Nutrition Service. Data from alternate sources must be reflective of the school's population, be equivalent data for both the base year and the last year of the current cycle, and effectively measure whether the income level of the school's population, as adjusted for inflation, has remained stable, declined or had only negligible improvement.
(ii)
Negligible improvement.
The change in the income level of the school population shall be considered negligible if there is a 5 percent or less improvement, after adjusting for inflation, over the base year in the level of the socioeconomic indicator which is used to establish the income level of the school's population.
(2)
Extension not approved.
Schools for which the available and approved socioeconomic data does not reflect the school's population, is not equivalent data for the base year and the last year of the current cycle, or shows over 5 percent improvement after adjusting for inflation, shall not be approved for an extension. Such schools must elect one of the following options:
(i)
Return to standard meal counting and claiming.
Return to standard meal counting and claiming procedures;
(ii)
Establish a new base year.
Establish a new Provision 3 base year by taking new free and reduced price applications, making new free and reduced price eligibility determinations, and taking point of service counts of free, reduced price and paid meals for the first year of the new cycle. Schools electing to establish a Provision 3 base year shall follow procedures contained in paragraph (d) of this section;
(iii)
Establish a streamlined base year.
With prior approval by the State agency, establish a streamlined base year by providing reimbursable meals to all participating students at no charge and developing either enrollment based or participation based claiming percentages.
(A)
Enrollment based percentages.
In accordance with guidance established by the Food and Nutrition Service, establish a new Provision 3 base year by determining program eligibility on the basis of household size and income, and direct certification if applicable, for a statistically valid proportion of the school's enrollment as of October 31, or other date approved by the State agency. The statistically valid measurement of the school's enrollment must be obtained during the first year of the new cycle and meet the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section. Using the data obtained, enrollment based claiming percentages representing a proportion of the school's population eligible for free, reduced price and paid benefits shall be developed and applied to total daily meal counts of reimbursable meals at the point of service, or as otherwise approved under part 210 of this chapter. For schools electing to participate in Provision 3, the streamlined base year level of assistance will be adjusted for enrollment, inflation and, if applicable, operating days, for each subsequent year of the new cycle and any extensions; or
(B)
Participation based percentages.
In accordance with guidance established by the Food and Nutrition Service, establish a new Provision 3 base year by determining program eligibility on the basis of household size and income, and direct certification if applicable, for a statistically valid proportion of participating students established over multiple operating days. The statistically valid measurement of the school's student participation must be obtained during the first year of the new cycle and meet the requirements of paragraph (m) of this section. Using the data obtained, participation based claiming percentages representing a proportion of the school's participating students which are eligible for free, reduced price and paid benefits shall be developed and applied to total daily meal counts of reimbursable meals at the point of service or as otherwise approved under part 210 of this chapter. For schools electing to participate in Provision 3, the streamlined base year level of assistance as described in this
paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) will be adjusted for enrollment, inflation and, if applicable, operating days, for each subsequent year of the new cycle and any extensions; or
(iv)
Establish a Provision 2 base year.
Schools may convert to Provision 2 using the procedures contained in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) or (c)(2)(iii) of this section.
(f)
Community eligibility.
The community eligibility provision is an alternative reimbursement option for eligible high poverty local educational agencies. Each CEP cycle lasts up to four years before the LEA or school is required to recalculate their reimbursement rate. LEAs and schools have the option to recalculate sooner, if desired. A local educational agency may elect this provision for all of its schools, a group of schools, or an individual school. Participating local educational agencies must offer free breakfasts and lunches for the length of their CEP cycle, not to exceed four successive years, to all children attending participating schools and receive meal reimbursement based on claiming percentages, as described in paragraph (f)(4)(v) of this section.
(1)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this paragraph,
(i)
Enrolled students
means students who are enrolled in and attending schools participating in the community eligibility provision and who have access to at least one meal service (breakfast or lunch) daily.
(ii)
Identified students
means students with access to at least one meal service who are not subject to verification as prescribed in § 245.6a(c)(2). Identified students are students approved for free meals based on documentation of their receipt of benefits from SNAP, TANF, the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, or Medicaid where applicable (where approved by USDA to conduct matching with Medicaid data to identify children eligible for free meals). The term identified students also includes homeless children, migrant children, runaway children, or Head Start children (approved for free school meals without application and not subject to verification), as these terms are defined in § 245.2. In addition, the term includes foster children certified for free meals through means other than an application for free and reduced price school meals. The term does not include students who are categorically eligible based on submission of an application for free and reduced price school meals.
(iii)
Identified student percentage
means a percentage determined by dividing the number of identified students as of a specified period of time by the number of enrolled students as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section as of the same period of time and multiplying the quotient by 100. The identified student percentage may be determined by an individual participating school, a group of participating schools in the local educational agency, or in the aggregate for the entire local educational agency if all schools participate, following procedures established in FNS guidance.
(2)
Implementation.
A local educational agency may elect the community eligibility provision for all schools, a group of schools, or an individual school. Community eligibility may be implemented for one or more 4-year cycles.
(3)
Eligibility criteria.
To be eligible to participate in the community eligibility provision, a local educational agency (except a residential child care institution, as defined under the definition of “School” in § 210.2), group of schools, or school must meet the eligibility criteria set forth in this paragraph.
(i)
Minimum identified student percentage.
A local educational agency, group of schools, or school must have an identified student percentage of at least 25 percent, as of April 1 of the school year prior to participating in the community eligibility provision, unless otherwise specified by FNS. Individual schools participating in a group may have less than 25 percent identified students, provided that the average identified student percentage for the group is at least 25 percent.
(ii)
Lunch and breakfast program participation.
A local educational agency, group of schools, or school must participate in the National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program, under parts 210 and 220 of this title, for the duration of the 4-year
cycle. Schools that operate on a limited schedule, where it is not operationally feasible to offer both lunch and breakfast, may elect CEP with FNS approval.
(iii)
Compliance.
A local educational agency, group of schools, or school must comply with the procedures and requirements specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section to participate in the community eligibility provision.
(4)
Community eligibility provision procedures
—(i)
Election documentation and deadline.
A local educational agency, group of schools, or school that intends to elect the community eligibility provision for the following year for one or more schools must submit to the State agency documentation demonstrating the LEA, group of schools, or school meets the identified student percentage, as specified under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section. Such documentation must be submitted no later than June 30 and must include, at a minimum, the counts of identified students and enrolled students as of April 1 of the school year prior to CEP implementation.
(ii)
State agency review of election documentation.
The State agency must review the identified student percentage documentation submitted by the local educational agency to confirm that the local educational agency, group of schools, or school meets the minimum identified student percentage, participates in the National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program, and has a record of administering the meal program in accordance with program regulations, as indicated by the most recent administrative review.
(iii)
Meals at no cost.
A local educational agency must ensure participating schools offer reimbursable breakfasts and lunches at no cost to all students attending participating schools during the 4-year cycle, and count the number of reimbursable breakfasts and lunches served to students daily.
(iv)
Household applications.
A local educational agency, group of schools, or school must not collect applications for free and reduced price school meals on behalf of children in schools participating in the community eligibility provision. Any local educational agency seeking to obtain socioeconomic data from children receiving free meals under this section must develop, conduct, and fund this effort entirely separate from, and not under the auspices of, the National School Lunch Program or School Breakfast Program.
(v)
Free and paid claiming percentages.
Reimbursement is based on free and paid claiming percentages applied to the total number of reimbursable lunches and breakfasts served each month, respectively. Reduced price students are accounted for in the free claiming percentage, eliminating the need for a separate percentage.
(A) To determine the free claiming percentage, multiply the applicable identified student percentage by a factor of 1.6. The product of this calculation may not exceed 100 percent. The difference between the free claiming percentage and 100 percent represents the paid claiming percentage. The applicable identified student percentage means:
(
1
) In the first year of participation in the community eligibility provision, the identified student percentage as of April 1 of the prior school year.
(
2
) In the second, third, and fourth year of the 4-year cycle, LEAs may choose the higher of the identified student percentage as of April 1 of the prior school year or the identified student percentage as of April 1 of the year prior to the current 4-year cycle. LEAs and schools may begin a new 4-year cycle with a higher identified student percentage based on data as of the most recent April 1, as specified in paragraph (viii).
(B) To determine the number of lunches to claim for reimbursement, multiply the free claiming percentage as described in this paragraph by the total number of reimbursable lunches served to determine the number of free lunches to claim for reimbursement. The paid claiming percentage is multiplied by the total number of reimbursable lunches served to determine the number of paid lunches to claim for reimbursement. In the breakfast meal service, the free and paid claiming percentages are multiplied by the total number of reimbursable breakfasts served to determine the number of free
and paid breakfasts to claim for reimbursement. For any claim, if the total number of meals claimed for free and paid reimbursement does not equal the total number of meals served, the paid category must be adjusted so that all served meals are claimed for reimbursement.
(vi)
Multiplier factor.
A 1.6 multiplier must be used for an entire 4-year cycle to calculate the percentage of lunches and breakfasts to be claimed at the Federal free rate.
(vii)
Cost differential.
If there is a difference between the cost of serving lunches and breakfasts at no cost to all participating children and the Federal assistance provided, the local educational agency must pay such difference with non-Federal sources of funds. Expenditure of additional non-federal funds is not required if all operating costs are covered by the Federal assistance provided.
(viii)
New 4-year cycle.
To begin a new 4-year cycle, local educational agencies or schools must establish a new identified student percentage as of April 1 prior to the 4-year cycle. If the local educational agency, group of schools, or school meet the eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, a new 4-year cycle may begin.
(ix)
Grace year.
A local educational agency, group of schools, or school with an identified student percentage of less than 25 percent but equal to or greater than 15 percent as of April 1 of the fourth year of a community eligibility cycle may continue using community eligibility for a grace year that continues the 4-year cycle for one additional, or fifth, year. If the local educational agency, group of schools, or school regains the 25 percent threshold as of April 1 of the grace year, the State agency may authorize a new 4-year cycle for the following school year. If the local educational agency, group of schools, or school does not regain the required threshold as of April 1 of the grace year, they must return to collecting household applications in the following school year in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section. Reimbursement in a grace year is determined by multiplying the identified student percentage at the local educational agency, group of schools, or school as of April 1 of the fourth year of the 4-year CEP cycle by the 1.6 multiplier.
(5)
Identification of potential community eligibility schools.
No later than April 15 of each school year, each local educational agency must submit to the State agency a list(s) of schools as described in this paragraph. The State agency may exempt local educational agencies from this requirement if the State agency already collects the required information. The list(s) must include:
(i) Schools with an identified student percentage of at least 25 percent;
(ii) Schools with an identified student percentage that is less than 25 percent but greater than or equal to 15 percent; and
(iii) Schools currently in year 4 of the community eligibility provision with an identified student percentage that is less than 25 percent but greater than or equal to 15 percent.
(6)
State agency notification requirements.
No later than April 15 of each school year, the State agency must notify the local educational agencies described in this paragraph about their community eligibility status. Each State agency must notify:
(i) Local educational agencies with an identified student percentage of at least 25 percent district wide, of the potential to participate in community eligibility in the subsequent year; the estimated cash assistance the local educational agency would receive; and the procedures to participate in community eligibility.
(ii) Local educational agencies with an identified student percentage that is less than 25 percent district wide but greater than or equal to 15 percent, that they may be eligible to participate in community eligibility in the subsequent year if they meet the eligibility requirements set forth in paragraph (f)(3) of this section as of April 1.
(iii) Local educational agencies currently using community eligibility district wide, of the options available in establishing claiming percentages for next school year.
(iv) Local educational agencies currently in year 4 with an identified student percentage district wide that is less than 25 percent but greater than or
equal to 15 percent, of the grace year eligibility.
(7)
Public notification requirements.
By May 1 of each school year, the State agency must make the following information readily accessible on its Web site in a format prescribed by FNS:
(i) The names of schools identified in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, grouped as follows: Schools with an identified student percentage of least 25 percent, schools with an identified student percentage of less than 25 percent but greater than or equal to 15 percent, and schools currently in year 4 of the community eligibility provision with an identified student percentage that is less than 25 percent but greater than or equal to 15 percent.
(ii) The names of local educational agencies receiving State agency notification as required under paragraph (f)(6) of this section, grouped as follows: Local educational agencies with an identified student percentage of at least 25 percent district wide, local educational agencies with an identified student percentage that is less than 25 percent district wide but greater than or equal to 15 percent, local educational agencies currently using community eligibility district wide, and local educational agencies currently in year 4 with an identified student percentage district wide that is less than 25 percent but greater than or equal to 15 percent.
(iii) The State agency must maintain eligibility lists as described in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this section until such time as new lists are made available annually by May 1.
(8)
Notification data.
For purposes of fulfilling the requirements in paragraphs (f)(5) and (6) of this section, the State agency must:
(i) Obtain data representative of the current school year, and
(ii) Use the identified student percentage as defined in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. If school-specific identified student percentage data are not readily available by school, use direct certifications as a percentage of enrolled students,
i.e.,
the percentage derived by dividing the number of students directly certified under § 245.6(b) by the number of enrolled students as defined in paragraph (f)(1) as an indicator of potential eligibility. If direct certification data are used, the State agency must clearly indicate that the data provided does not fully reflect the number of identified students.
(iii) If data are not as of April 1 of the current school year, ensure the data includes a notation that the data are intended for informational purposes and do not confer eligibility for community eligibility. Local educational agencies must meet the eligibility requirements specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section to participate in community eligibility.
(9)
Other uses of the free claiming percentage.
For purposes of determining a school's or site's eligibility to participate in a Child Nutrition Program, a community eligibility provision school's free claiming percentage,
i.e.,
the product of the school's identified student percentage multiplied by 1.6, serves as a proxy for free and reduced price certification data.
(g)
Policy statement requirement.
A local educational agency that elects to participate in the special assistance provisions or the community eligibility provision set forth in this section must:
(1) Amend its Free and Reduced Price Policy Statement, specified in § 245.10 of this part, to include a list of all schools participating in each of the special assistance provisions specified in this section. The following information must also be included for each school:
(i) The initial school year of implementing the special assistance provision;
(ii) The school years the cycle is expected to remain in effect;
(iii) The school year the special assistance provision must be reconsidered; and
(iv) The available and approved data that will be used in reconsideration, as applicable.
(2) Certify that the school(s) meet the criteria for participating in each of the special assistance provisions, as specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) of this section, as appropriate.
(h)
Recordkeeping.
Local educational agencies that elect to participate in the special assistance provisions set
forth in this section must retain implementation records for each of the participating schools. Failure to maintain sufficient records will result in the State agency requiring the school to return to standard meal counting and claiming procedures and/or fiscal action. Recordkeeping requirements include, as applicable:
(1)
Base year records.
A local educational agency shall ensure that records as specified in §§ 210.15(b) and 220.7(e) of this chapter which support subsequent year earnings are retained for the base year for schools under Provision 2 and Provision 3. In addition, records of enrollment data for the base year must be retained for schools under Provision 3. Such base year records must be retained during the period the provision is in effect, including all extensions, plus 3 fiscal years after the submission of the last Claim for Reimbursement which employed the base year data. Local educational agencies that conduct a streamlined base year must retain all records related to the statistical methodology and the determination of claiming percentages. Such records shall be retained during the period the provision is in effect, including all extensions, plus 3 fiscal years after the submission of the last Claim for Reimbursement which employed the streamlined base year data. In either case, if audit findings have not been resolved, base year records must be retained beyond the 3-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(2)
Non-base year records.
Local educational agencies that are granted an extension of a provision must retain records of the available and approved socioeconomic data which is used to determine the income level of the school's population for the base year and year(s) in which extension(s) are made. In addition, State agencies must also retain records of the available and approved socioeconomic data which is used to determine the income level of the school's population for the base year and year(s) in which extensions are made. Such records must be retained at both the local educational agency level and at the State agency during the period the provision is in effect, including all extensions, plus 3 fiscal years after the submission of the last monthly Claim for Reimbursement which employed base year data. If audit findings have not been resolved, records must be retained beyond the 3-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit. In addition, for schools operating under Provision 2, a local educational agency must retain non-base year records pertaining to total daily meal count information, edit checks and on-site review documentation. For schools operating under Provision 3, a local educational agency must retain non-base year records pertaining to total daily meal count information, the system of oversight or edit checks, on-site review documentation, annual enrollment data and the number of operating days, which are used to adjust the level of assistance. Such records shall be retained for three years after submission of the final monthly Claim for Reimbursement for the fiscal year.
(3)
Records for the community eligibility provision.
Local educational agencies must ensure records are maintained, including: data used to calculate the identified student percentage, annual selection of the identified student percentage, total number of breakfasts and lunches served daily, percentages used to claim meal reimbursement, non-Federal funding sources used to cover any excess meal costs, and school-level information provided to the State agency for publication, if applicable. Documentation must be made available at any reasonable time for review and audit purposes. Such records shall be retained during the period the community eligibility provision is in effect, including all extensions, plus three fiscal years after the submission of the last Claim for Reimbursement which was based on the data. In any case, if audit findings have not been resolved, these records must be retained beyond the three-year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
(i)
Availability of documentation.
Upon request, the local educational agency must make documentation available for review or audit to document compliance with the requirements of this section. Depending on the certification or reimbursement alternative used,
such documentation includes, but is not limited to, enrollment data, participation data, identified student percentages, available and approved socioeconomic data that was used to grant an extension, if applicable, or other data. In addition, upon request from FNS, local educational agencies under Provision 2 or Provision 3, or State agencies must submit to FNS all data and documentation used in granting extensions including documentation as specified in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section. Data used to establish a new cycle for the community eligibility provision must also be available for review.
(j)
Restoring standard meal counting and claiming.
Under Provisions 1, 2, or 3 or community eligibility provision, a local educational agency may restore a school to standard notification, certification, and counting and claiming procedures at any time during the school year or for the following school year if standard procedures better suit the school's program needs. If standard procedures are restored during a school year, the local educational agency must offer all students reimbursable, free meals for a period of at least 30 operating days following the date of restoration of standard procedures or until a new eligibility determination is made, whichever comes first. Prior to the change taking place, but no later than June 30, the local educational agency must:
(1) Notify the State agency of the intention to stop participating in a special assistance certification and reimbursement alternative under this section and seek State agency guidance and review regarding the restoration of standard operating procedures.
(2) Notify the public and meet the certification and verification requirements of §§ 245.6 and 245.6a in affected schools.
(k)
Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands.
A local educational agency in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, where a statistical survey procedure is permitted in lieu of eligibility determinations for each child, may: Maintain their standard procedures in accordance with § 245.4, select Provision 2 or Provision 3, or elect the community eligibility provision provided the applicable eligibility requirements as set forth in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section are met. For the community eligibility provision, current direct certification data must be available to determine the identified student percentage.
(l)
Transferring eligibility for free meals during the school year.
For student transfers during the school year within a local educational agency, a student's access to free, reimbursable meals under the special assistance certification and reimbursement alternatives specified in this section must be extended by a receiving school using standard counting and claiming procedures for up to 10 operating school days or until a new eligibility determination for the current school year is made, whichever comes first. For student transfers between local educational agencies, this requirement applies not later than July 1, 2019. At the State agency's discretion, students who transfer within or between local educational agencies may be offered free reimbursable meals for up to 30 operating days or until a new eligibility determination for the current school year is made, whichever comes first.
(m)
Statistical income measurements.
Statistical income measurements that are used under this section to establish enrollment or participation base claiming percentages must comply with the standards outlined as follows:
(1) For enrollment based claiming percentages, statistical income measurements must meet the following standards:
(i) The sample frame shall be limited to enrolled students who have access to the school meals program;
(ii) A sample of enrolled students shall be randomly selected from the sample frame;
(iii) The response rate to the survey shall be at least 80 percent;
(iv) The number of households that complete the survey shall be sufficiently large so that it can be asserted with 95 percent confidence that the true percentage of students who are enrolled in the school, have access to the school meals program, and are eligible for free meals is within plus or minus 2.5 percentage points of the point estimate determined from the sample; and
(v) To minimize statistical bias, data from all households that complete the survey must be used when calculating the enrollment based claiming percentages for paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) and (e)(2)(iii)(A) of this section.
(2) For participation based claiming percentages, statistical income measurements must meet the following standards:
(i) The sample frame must be limited to students participating in the meal program for which the participation based claiming percentages are being developed;
(ii) The sample frame must represent multiple operating days, as established through guidance, in the meal program for which the participation based claiming percentages are being developed;
(iii) A sample of participating students shall be randomly selected from the sample frame;
(iv) The response rate to the survey shall be at least 80 percent;
(v) The number of households that complete the survey shall be sufficiently large so that it can be asserted with 95 percent confidence that the true percentage of participating students who are eligible for free meals is within plus or minus 2.5 percentage points of the point estimate determined from the sample; and,
(vi) To minimize statistical bias, data from all households that complete the survey must be used when calculating the participation based claiming percentages for paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(B) and (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section.
(Sec. 9, Pub. L. 95-166, 91 Stat. 1336 (42 U.S.C. 1759a); secs. 805, and 819, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1773))
[Amdt. 19, 45 FR 67287, Oct. 10, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 23, 47 FR 14135, Apr. 2, 1982; 66 FR 48328, Sept. 20, 2001; 76 FR 22802, Apr. 25, 2011; 81 FR 50206, July 29, 2016]
§ 245.10
Action by local educational agencies.
(a) Each local educational agencyof a school desiring to participate in the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program, or to provide free milk under the Special Milk Program, or to become a commodity-only school shall submit for approval to the State agency a free and reduced price policy statement. Once approved, the policy statement shall be a permanent document which may be amended as necessary, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Such policy statement, as a minimum, shall contain the following:
(1) The official or officials designated by the local educational agency to make eligibility determinations on its behalf for free and reduced price meals or for free milk;
(2) An assurance that for children who are not categorically eligible for free and reduced price benefits the local educational agency will determine eligibility for free and reduced price meals or free milk in accordance with the current Income Eligibility Guidelines.
(3) The specific procedures the local educational agency will use in accepting applications from families for free and reduced price meals or for free milk. Additionally, the local educational agency must include the specific procedures it will use for obtaining documentation for determining children's eligibility through direct certification, in lieu of an application. Local educational agencies shall also provide households that are directly certified with a notice of eligibility, as specified in § 245.6(c)(2) and shall include in their policy statement a copy of such notice.
(4) A description of the method or methods to be used to collect payments from those children paying the full price of the meal or milk, or a reduced price of a meal, which will prevent the overt identification of the children receiving a free meal or free milk or a reduced price meal, and
(5) An assurance that the school will abide by the hearing procedure set forth in § 245.7 and the nondiscrimination practices set forth in § 245.8.
(b) The policy statement submitted by each local educational agency shall be accompanied by a copy of the application form to be used by the school and of the proposed letter or notice to parents.
(c) Each local educational agency shall amend its permanent free and reduced price policy statement to reflect substantive changes. Any amendment to a policy shall be approved by the
State agency prior to implementation, or as provided in paragraph (e) of this section. Each year, if a local educational agency does not have its policy statement approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, by October 15, reimbursement shall be suspended for any meals or milk served until such time as the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. Furthermore, no commodities donated by the Department shall be used in any school after October 15, until such time as the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. Once the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved, reimbursement may be allowed, at the discretion of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for eligible meals and milk served during the period of suspension.
(d) If any free and reduced price policy statement submitted for approval by any local educational agency to the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, is determined to be not in compliance with the provisions of this part, the local educational agency shall submit a policy statement that does meet the provisions within 30 days after notification by the State agency, or FNSO where applicable.
(e) When revision of a local educational agency's approved free and reduced price policy statement is necessitated because of a change in the family-size income standards of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, or because of other program changes, the local educational agency shall have 60 days from the date the State agency announces the change in which to have its revised policy statement approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. In the event that a local educational agency's proposed revised free and reduced price policy statement has not been submitted to, and approved by, the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, within 60 days following the public announcement by the State agency, reimbursement shall be suspended for any meals or milk served after the end of the 60-day period. No commodities donated by the Department shall be used in any school after the end of the 60-day period, until such time as the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. Reimbursement may be allowed at the discretion of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, for eligible meals and milk served during the period of suspension once the local educational agency's free and reduced price policy statement has been approved by the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable. Pending approval of a revision of a policy statement, the existing statement shall remain in effect.
(Sec. 8, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3623 (42 U.S.C. 1758); sec. 5, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3619 (42 U.S.C. 1772); 44 U.S.C. 3506; sec. 803, Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1758))
[35 FR 14065, Sept. 4, 1970, as amended at 38 FR 14958, June 7, 1973; Amdt. 6, 39 FR 30339, Aug. 22, 1974; Amdt. 8, 40 FR 57208, Dec. 8, 1975; Amdt. 13, 44 FR 33049, June 8, 1979; 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982; 48 FR 12511, Mar. 25, 1983; 64 FR 50744, Sept. 20, 1999; 64 FR 72474, Dec. 28, 1999; 72 FR 63796, Nov. 13, 2007; 76 FR 22802, Apr. 25, 2011]
§ 245.11
Second review of applications.
(a)
General.
On an annual basis not later than the end of each school year, State agencies must identify local educational agencies demonstrating a high level of, or risk for, administrative error associated with certification processes and notify the affected local educational agencies that they must conduct a second review of applications beginning in the following school year. The second review of applications must be completed prior to notifying the household of the eligibility or ineligibility of the household for free or reduced price meals.
(b)
State agency requirements
—(1)
Selection criteria.
Local educational agencies subject to a second review must include:
(i)
Administrative review certification errors.
All local educational agencies with 10 percent or more of the certification/benefit issuances in error, as determined by the State agency during an administrative review; and
(ii)
State agency discretion.
Local educational agencies not selected under paragraph (b)(1)(i) that are at risk for certification error, as determined by the State agency.
(2)
Reporting requirement.
Beginning March 15, 2015, and every March 15 thereafter, each State agency must submit a report, as specified by FNS, describing the results of the second reviews conducted by each local educational agency in their State. The report must provide information about applications reviewed in each local educational agency and include:
(i) The number of free and reduced price applications subject to a second review;
(ii) The number of reviewed applications for which the eligibility determination was changed;
(iii) The percentage of reviewed applications for which the eligibility determination was changed; and
(iv) A summary of the types of changes that were made.
(3) State agencies must provide technical assistance to ameliorate certification related problems at local educational agencies determined to be at risk for certification.
(c)
Local educational agency requirements.
Beginning July 1, 2014, and each July 1 thereafter, local educational agencies selected by the State agency to conduct a second review of applications must ensure that the initial eligibility determination for each application is reviewed for accuracy prior to notifying the household of the eligibility or ineligibility of the household for free and reduced price meals. The second review must be conducted by an individual or entity who did not make the initial determination. This individual or entity is not required to be an employee of the local educational agency but must be trained on how to make application determinations. All individuals or entities who conduct a second review of applications are subject to the disclosure requirements set forth in § 245.6(f) through (k).
(1)
Timeframes.
The second review of initial determinations must be completed by the local educational agency in a timely manner and must not result in a delay in notifying the household, as set forth in § 245.6(c)(6)(i).
(2)
Duration of requirement to conduct a second review of applications.
Selected local educational agencies must conduct a second review of applications annually until the State agency determines that local educational agency-provided documentation provided in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section or data obtained by the State agency during an administrative review, demonstrates that no more than 5 percent of reviewed applications required a change in eligibility determination.
(3)
Reporting requirement.
Each local educational agency required to conduct a second review of applications must annually submit to the State agency, on a date established by the State agency, the following information as of October 31st:
(i) The number of free and reduced price applications subject to a second review;
(ii) The number of reviewed applications for which the eligibility determination was changed;
(iii) The percentage of reviewed applications for which the eligibility determination was changed; and
(iv) A summary of the types of changes that were made.
[79 FR 7054, Feb. 6, 2014]
§ 245.12
Action by State agencies and FNSROs.
(a) Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall, for schools under its jurisdiction:
(1) As necessary, each State agency or FNSRO, as applicable, shall issue a prototype free and reduced price policy statement and any other instructions to ensure that each local educational agency as defined in § 245.2 is fully informed of the provisions of this part. If the State elects to establish for all schools a maximum price for reduced price lunches that is less than 40 cents, the State shall establish such price in its prototype policy. Such State shall then receive the adjusted national average factor provided for in § 210.4(b);
(2) Prescribe and publicly announce by July 1 of each fiscal year, in accordance with § 245.3(a), family-size income standards. Any standards prescribed by FNSRO with respect to nonprofit private schools shall be developed by
FNSRO after consultation with the State agency.
(a-1) When a revision of the family-size income standards of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, is necessitated because of a change in the Secretary's income poverty guidelines or because of other program changes, the State agency shall publicly announce its revised family-size income standards no later than 30 days after the Secretary has announced such change.
(b) State agencies, and FNSRO where applicable, shall review the policy statements submitted by school-food authorities for compliance with the provisions of this part and inform the school-food authorities of any necessary changes or amendments required in any policy statement to bring such statement into compliance. They shall notify school-food authorities in writing of approval of their policy statements and shall direct them to distribute promptly the public announcements required under the provisions of § 245.5.
(c) Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall instruct local educational agencies under their jurisdiction that they may not alter or amend the eligibility criteria set forth in an approved policy statement without advance approval of the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable.
(d) Not later than 10 days after the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, announces its family-size income standards, it shall notify local educational agencies in writing of any amendment to their free and reduced price policy statements necessary to bring the family-sized income criteria into conformance with the State agency's or FNSRO's family-size income standards.
(e) Except as provided in § 245.10, the State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall neither disburse any funds, nor authorize the distribution of commodities donated by the Department to any school unless the local educational agency has an approved free and reduced price policy statement on file with the State Agency, or FNSRO where applicable.
(f) Each State agency, or FNSRO where applicable, shall, in the course of its supervisory assistance, review and evaluate the performance of local educational agencies and of schools in fulfilling the requirements of this part, and shall advise local educational agencies of any deficiencies found and any corrective action required to be taken.
(g) The State agency must notify FNS whether the TANF Program in their State is comparable to or more restrictive than the State's Aid to Families with Dependent Children Program that was in effect on June 1, 1995. Automatic eligibility and direct certification for TANF households is allowed only in States in which FNS has been assured that the TANF standards are comparable to or more restrictive than the program it replaced. State agencies must inform FNS when there is a change in the State's TANF Program that would no longer make households participating in TANF automatically eligible for free school meals.
(h) The State agency shall take action to ensure the proper implementation of Provisions 1, 2, and 3. Such action shall include:
(1)
Notification.
Notifying school food authorities of schools implementing Provision 2 and/or 3 that each Provision 2 or Provision 3 school must return to standard eligibility determination and meal counting procedures or apply for an extension under Provision 2 or 3. Such notification must be in writing, and be sent no later than February 15, or other date established by the State agency, of the fourth year of a school's current cycle;
(2)
Return to standard procedures.
Returning the school to standard eligibility determination and meal counting procedures and fiscal action as required under § 210.19(c) of this chapter if the State agency determines that records were not maintained; and
(3)
Technical assistance.
Providing technical assistance, adjustments to the level of financial assistance for the current school year, and returning the school to standard eligibility determination and meal counting procedures, as appropriate, if a State agency determines at any time that:
(i) The school or school food authority has not correctly implemented Provision 1, Provision 2 or Provision 3;
(ii) Meal quality has declined because of the implementation of the provision;
(iii) Participation in the program has declined over time;
(iv) Eligibility determinations or the verification procedures were incorrectly conducted; or
(v) Meal counts were incorrectly taken or incorrectly applied.
(4)
State agency recordkeeping.
State agencies shall retain the following information annually for the month of October and, upon request, submit to FNS:
(i) The number of schools using Provision 1, Provision 2 and Provision 3 for NSLP;
(ii) The number of schools using Provision 2 and Provision 3 for SBP only;
(iii) The number of extensions granted to schools using Provision 2 and Provision 3 during the previous school year;
(iv) The number of extensions granted during the previous year on the basis of SNAP/FDPIR data;
(v) The number of extensions granted during the previous year on the basis of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) data;
(vi) The number of extensions granted during the previous year on the basis of local data collected by a city or county zoning and/or economic planning office;
(vii) The number of extensions granted during the previous year on the basis of applications collected from enrolled students;
(viii) The number of extensions granted during the previous year on the basis of statistically valid surveys of enrolled students; and
(ix) The number of extensions granted during the previous year on the basis of alternate data as approved by the State agency's respective FNS Regional Office.
(5)
State agency approval.
Prior to approval for participation under Provision 2 or Provision 3, State agencies shall ensure school and/or school food authority program compliance as required under §§ 210.19(a)(4) and 220.13(k) of this chapter.
(i) No later than February 1, 2013, and by February 1st each year thereafter, each State agency must collect annual verification data from each local educational agency as described in § 245.6a(h) and in accordance with guidelines provided by FNS. Each State agency must analyze these data, determine if there are potential problems, and formulate corrective actions and technical assistance activities that will support the objective of certifying only those children eligible for free or reduced price meals. No later than March 15, 2013, and by March 15th each year thereafter, each State agency must report to FNS, in a consolidated electronic file by local educational agency, the verification information that has been reported to it as required under § 245.6a(h), as well as any ameliorative actions the State agency has taken or intends to take in local educational agencies with high levels of applications changed due to verification. State agencies are encouraged to collect and report any or all verification data elements before the required dates.
(Secs. 801, 803, 812; Pub. L. 97-35, 95 Stat. 521-535 (42 U.S.C. 1753, 1758, 1759(a), 1773, 1778))
[35 FR 14065, Sept. 4, 1970. Redesignated at 79 FR 7054, Feb. 6, 2014]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 245.12, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 245.13
State agencies and direct certification requirements.
(a)
Direct certification requirements.
State agencies are required to meet the direct certification performance benchmarks set forth in paragraph (b) of this section for directly certifying children who are members of households receiving assistance under SNAP. A State agency that fails to meet the benchmark must develop and submit to FNS a continuous improvement plan (CIP) to fully meet the requirements of this paragraph and to improve direct certification for the following school year in accordance with the provisions in paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section.
(b)
Direct certification performance benchmarks.
State agencies must meet
performance benchmarks for directly certifying for free school meals children who are members of households receiving assistance under SNAP. The performance benchmarks are as follows:
(1) 80% for the school year beginning July 1, 2011;
(2) 90% for the school year beginning July 1, 2012; and
(3) 95% for the school year beginning July 1, 2013, and for each school year thereafter.
(c)
Data elements required for direct certification rate calculation.
Each State agency must provide FNS with specific data elements each year, as follows:
(1)
Data Element #1
—The number of children who are members of households receiving assistance under SNAP that are directly certified for free school meals as of the last operating day in October, collected and reported in the same manner and timeframes as specified in § 245.11(i).
(2)
Data Element #2
—The unduplicated count of children ages 5 to 17 years old who are members of households receiving assistance under SNAP at any time during the period July 1 through September 30. This data element must be provided by the SNAP State agency, as required under 7 CFR 272.8(a)(5), and reported to FNS and to the State agency administering the NSLP in the State by December 1st each year, in accordance with guidelines provided by FNS.
(3)
Data Element #3
—The count of the number of children who are members of households receiving assistance under SNAP who attend a school operating under the provisions of 7 CFR 245.9 in a year other than the base year or that is exercising the community eligibility provision (CEP). The proxy for this data element must be established each school year through the State's data matching efforts between SNAP records and student enrollment records for these special provision schools that are operating in a non-base year or that are exercising the CEP. Such matching efforts must occur in or close to October each year, but no later than the last operating day in October. However, States that have special provision schools exercising the CEP may alternatively choose to include, for these schools, the count from the SNAP match conducted as of April 1 of the same calendar year, whether or not it was used in the CEP claiming percentages. State agencies must report this aggregated data element to FNS by December 1 each year, in accordance with guidelines provided by FNS.
(d)
State notification.
For each school year, FNS will notify State agencies that fail to meet the direct certification performance benchmark.
(e)
Continuous improvement plan required.
A State agency having a direct certification rate with SNAP that is less than the direct certification performance benchmarks set forth in paragraph (b) of this section must submit to FNS for approval, within 90 days of notification, a CIP in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Continuous improvement plan required components.
CIPs must include, at a minimum:
(1) The specific measures that the State will use to identify more children who are eligible for direct certification, including improvements or modifications to technology, information systems, or databases;
(2) A multiyear timeline for the State to implement these measures;
(3) Goals for the State to improve direct certification results for the following school year; and
(4) Information about the State's progress toward implementing other direct certification requirements, as provided in FNS guidance.
(g)
Continuous improvement plan implementation.
A State must maintain its CIP and implement it according to the timeframes in the approved plan.
[78 FR 12230, Feb. 22, 2013. Redesignated at 79 FR 7054, Feb. 6, 2014; 81 FR 50210, July 29, 2016]
§ 245.14
Fraud penalties.
(a) Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, shall—
(1) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than five years of both; or
(2) If such funds, assets, or property are of a value of less than $100, be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year or both.
(b) Whoever receives, conceals, or retains to his use or gain funds, assets, or property provided under this part, whether received directly or indirectly from the Department, knowing such funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud, shall be subject to the same penalties provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(Sec. 10(a), Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3623 (42 U.S.C. 1760); sec. 14, Pub. L. 95-627, 92 Stat. 3625-3626)
[Amdt. 14, 44 FR 37901, June 29, 1979, as amended at 64 FR 50744, Sept. 20, 1999. Redesignated at 78 FR 12230, Feb. 22, 2013, and further redesignated at 79 FR 7054, Feb. 6, 2014]
§ 245.15
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
7 CFR section where requirements are described
Current OMB control number
245.3 (a), (b)
0584-0026
245.4
0584-0026
245.5 (a), (b)
0584-0026
245.6 (a), (b), (c), (e)
0584-0026
245.7(a)
0584-0026
245.9 (a), (b), (c)
0584-0026
245.10 (a), (d), (e)
0584-0026
245.11 (a), (a-1), (b), (c), (d), (f)
0584-0026
245.13(a)-(c)
0584-0026
[72 FR 68985, Dec. 6, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 11312, Mar. 3, 2008. Redesignated at 78 FR 12230, Feb. 22, 2013, and further redesignated at 79 FR 7054, Feb. 6, 2014]
Pt. 246

# PART 246—SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
246.1
General purpose and scope.
246.2
Definitions.
246.3
Administration.

# Subpart B—State and Local Agency Eligibility
246.4
State plan.
246.5
Selection of local agencies.
246.6
Agreements with local agencies.

# Subpart C—Participant Eligibility
246.7
Certification of participants.
246.8
Nondiscrimination.
246.9
Fair hearing procedures for participants.

# Subpart D—Participant Benefits
246.10
Supplemental foods.
246.11
Nutrition education.

# Subpart E—State Agency Provisions
246.12
Food delivery methods.
246.13
Financial management system.
246.14
Program costs.
246.15
Program income other than grants.
246.16
Distribution of funds.
246.16a
Infant formula and authorized foods cost containment.
246.17
Closeout procedures.
246.18
Administrative appeal of State agency actions.

# Subpart F—Monitoring and Review
246.19
Management evaluation and monitoring reviews.
246.20
Audits.
246.21
Investigations.

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous Provisions
246.22
Administrative appeal of FNS decisions.
246.23
Claims and penalties.
246.24
Procurement and property management.
246.25
Records and reports.
246.26
Other provisions.
246.27
Program information.
246.28
OMB control numbers.
246.29
Waivers of program requirements.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1786.

# Source:
50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 246 appear at 76 FR 35097, June 16, 2011.

# Subpart A—General
§ 246.1
General purpose and scope.
This part announces regulations under which the Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC Program). Section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, states in part that the Congress finds that substantial numbers of pregnant, postpartum and breastfeeding women,
infants and young children from families with inadequate income are at special risk with respect to their physical and mental health by reason of inadequate nutrition or health care, or both. The purpose of the Program is to provide supplemental foods and nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, through payment of cash grants to State agencies which administer the Program through local agencies at no cost to eligible persons. The Program shall serve as an adjunct to good health care during critical times of growth and development, in order to prevent the occurrence of health problems, including drug and other harmful substance abuse, and to improve the health status of these persons. The program shall be supplementary to SNAP; any program under which foods are distributed to needy families in lieu of SNAP benefits; and receipt of food or meals from soup kitchens, or shelters, or other forms of emergency food assistance.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 51294, Dec. 14, 1989; 58 FR 11506, Feb. 26, 1993; 76 FR 59888, Sept. 28, 2011]
§ 246.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part and all contracts, guidelines, instructions, forms and other documents related hereto, the term:
2 CFR part 200,
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
Above-50-percent vendors
means vendors that derive more than 50 percent of their annual food sales revenue from WIC food instruments, and new vendor applicants expected to meet this criterion under guidelines approved by FNS.
Affirmative Action Plan
means that portion of the State Plan which describes how the Program will be initiated and expanded within the State's jurisdiction in accordance with § 246.4(a).
A-130
means Office of Management and Budget Circular A-130, which provides guidance for the coordinated development and operation of information systems.
Applicants
means pregnant women, breastfeeding women, postpartum women, infants, and children who are applying to receive WIC benefits, and the breastfed infants of applicant breastfeeding women. Applicants include individuals who are currently participating in the program but are re-applying because their certification period is about to expire.
Authorized supplemental foods
means those supplemental foods authorized by the State or local agency for issuance to a particular participant.
Breastfeeding
means the practice of feeding a mother's breastmilk to her infant(s) on the average of at least once a day.
Breastfeeding women
means women up to one year postpartum who are breastfeeding their infants.
Cash-value voucher
means a fixed-dollar amount check, voucher, electronic benefit transfer (EBT) card or other document which is used by a participant to obtain authorized fruits and vegetables. Cash-value voucher is also known as cash-value benefit (CVB) in an EBT environment.
Categorical eligibility
means persons who meet the definitions of pregnant women, breastfeeding women, postpartum women, or infants or children.
Certification
means the implementation of criteria and procedures to assess and document each applicant's eligibility for the Program.
Children
means persons who have had their first birthday but have not yet attained their fifth birthday.
Clinic
means a facility where applicants are certified.
Competent professional authority
means an individual on the staff of the local agency authorized to determine nutritional risk and prescribe supplemental foods. The following persons are the only persons the State agency may authorize to serve as a competent
professional authority: Physicians, nutritionists (bachelor's or master's degree in Nutritional Sciences, Community Nutrition, Clinical Nutrition, Dietetics, Public Health Nutrition or Home Economics with emphasis in Nutrition), dieticians, registered nurses, physician's assistants (certified by the National Committee on Certification of Physician's Assistants or certified by the State medical certifying authority), or State or local medically trained health officials. This definition also applies to an individual who is not on the staff of the local agency but who is qualified to provide data upon which nutritional risk determinations are made by a competent professional authority on the staff of the local agency.
Competitive bidding
means a procurement process under which FNS or the State agency selects a single source (such as a single infant formula manufacturer offering the lowest price), as determined by the submission of sealed bids, for a product for which bids are sought for use in the Program.
Compliance buy
means a covert, on-site investigation in which a representative of the Program poses as a participant, parent or caretaker of an infant or child participant, or proxy, transacts one or more food instruments or cash-value vouchers, and does not reveal during the visit that he or she is a program representative.
Contract brand infant formula
means all infant formulas (except exempt infant formulas) produced by the manufacturer awarded the infant formula cost containment contract. If under a single solicitation the manufacturer subcontracts for soy-based infant formula, then all soy-based infant formulas covered by the subcontract are also considered contract brand infant formulas (see § 246.16a(c)(1)(i)). If a State agency elects to solicit separate bids for milk-based and soy-based infant formulas, all infant formulas issued under each contract are considered the contract brand infant formula (see § 246.16a(c)(1)(ii)). For example, all of the milk-based infant formulas issued by a State agency that are produced by the manufacturer that was awarded the milk-based contract are considered contract brand infant formulas. Similarly, all of the soy-based infant formulas issued by a State agency that are produced by the manufacturer that was awarded the soy-based contract are also considered to be contract brand infant formulas. Contract brand infant formulas also include all infant formulas (except exempt infant formulas) introduced after the contract is awarded.
Cost containment measure
means a competitive bidding, rebate, direct distribution, or home delivery system implemented by a State agency as described in its approved State Plan of operation and administration.
CSFP
means the Commodity Supplemental Food Program administered by the Department, authorized by section 5 of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973, as amended, and governed by part 247 of this title.
Days
means calendar days.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Disability
means, with respect to an individual, a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of such individual, a record of such an impairment, or being regarded as having such an impairment. See 28 CFR 35.108.
Discount
means, with respect to a State agency that provides Program foods to participants without the use of retail grocery stores (such as a State agency that provides for the home delivery or direct distribution of supplemental food), the amount of the price reduction or other price concession provided to any State agency by the manufacturer or supplier of the particular food product as the result of the purchase of Program food by each such State agency, or its representative, from the manufacturer or supplier.
Disqualification
means the act of ending the Program participation of a participant, authorized food vendor, or authorized State or local agency, whether as a punitive sanction or for administrative reasons.
Documentation
means the presentation of written documents which substantiate statements made by an applicant or participant or a person applying on behalf of an applicant.
Drug
means:
(a) A beverage containing alcohol;
(b) A controlled substance (having the meaning given it in section 102(6) of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6)); or
(c) A controlled substance analogue (having the meaning given it in section 102(32) of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 802(32)).
Dual participation
means simultaneous participation in the Program in one or more than one WIC clinic, or participation in the Program and in the CSFP during the same period of time.
EBT Capable
means the WIC vendor demonstrates their cash register system or payment device can accurately and securely obtain WIC food balances associated with an EBT card, maintain the necessary files such as the authorized product list, hot card file and claim file and successfully complete WIC EBT purchases.
Electronic Benefit Transfer
(EBT) means a method that permits electronic access to WIC food benefits using a card or other access device approved by the Secretary.
Electronic signature
means an electronic sound, symbol, or process, attached to or associated with an application or other record and executed and or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the record.
Emergency period
means a period during which there exists:
(1) A presidentially declared major disaster as defined under section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.
).
(2) A presidentially declared emergency as defined under section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121
et seq.
).
(3) A public health emergency declared by the Secretary of HHS under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d).
(4) A renewal of such a public health emergency pursuant to section 319.
Employee fraud and abuse
means the intentional conduct of a State, local agency or clinic employee which violates program regulations, policies, or procedures, including, but not limited to, misappropriating or altering food instruments or cash-value vouchers, entering false or misleading information in case records, or creating case records for fictitious participants.
Exempt infant formula
means an infant formula that meets the requirements for an exempt infant formula under section 412(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 350a(h)) and the regulations at 21 CFR parts 106 and 107.
Family
means a group of related or nonrelated individuals who are living together as one economic unit, except that residents of a homeless facility or an institution shall not all be considered as members of a single family.
Farmer
means an individual authorized by the State agency to sell eligible fruits and vegetables to participants at a farmers' market or roadside stands. Individuals who exclusively sell produce grown by someone else, such as wholesale distributors, cannot be authorized.
Farmers' market
means an association of local farmers who assemble at a defined location for the purpose of selling their produce directly to consumers.
Fiscal year
means the period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1 of any calendar year and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Food costs
means the costs of supplemental foods, determined in accordance with § 246.14(b).
Food delivery system
means the method used by State and local agencies to provide supplemental foods to participants.
Food instrument
means a voucher, check, electronic benefits transfer card (EBT), coupon or other document which is used by a participant to obtain supplemental foods.
Food sales
means sales of all SNAP eligible foods intended for home preparation and consumption, including meat, fish, and poultry; bread and cereal products; dairy products; fruits and vegetables. Food items such as condiments and spices, coffee, tea, cocoa, and carbonated and noncarbonated drinks may be included in food sales when offered for sale along with foods in the categories identified above. Food
sales do not include sales of any items that cannot be purchased with SNAP benefits, such as hot foods or food that will be eaten in the store.
Full nutrition benefit
means the minimum amount of reconstituted fluid ounces of liquid concentrate infant formula as specified in Table 1 of § 246.10(e)(9) for each food package category and infant feeding variation (e.g., Food Package IA fully formula fed, IA-FF).
Health services
means ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care (such as infant and child care and prenatal and postpartum examinations) or referral for treatment.
High-risk vendor
means a vendor identified as having a high probability of committing a vendor violation through application of the criteria established in § 246.12(j)(3) and any additional criteria established by the State agency.
Home food delivery contractor
means a sole proprietorship, partnership, cooperative association, corporation, or other business entity that contracts with a State agency to deliver authorized supplemental foods to the residences of participants under a home food delivery system.
Homeless facility
means the following types of facilities which provide meal service. A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter (including a welfare hotel or congregate shelter) designed to provide temporary living accommodations; a facility that provides a temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized; or a public or private place not designed for, or normally used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings.
Homeless individual
means a woman, infant or child:
(a) Who lacks a fixed and regular nighttime residence; or
(b) Whose primary nighttime residence is:
(1) A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter (including a welfare hotel, a congregate shelter, or a shelter for victims of domestic violence) designated to provide temporary living accommodation;
(2) An institution that provides a temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized;
(3) A temporary accommodation of not more than 365 days in the residence of another individual; or
(4) A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings.
IHS
means the Indian Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Infant formula
means a food that meets the definition of an infant formula in section 201(z) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(z)) and that meets the requirements for an infant formula under section 412 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 350a) and the regulations at 21 CFR parts 106 and 107.
Institution
means any residential accommodation which provides meal service, except private residences and homeless facilities.
Infants
means persons under one year of age.
Inventory audit
means the examination of food invoices or other proofs of purchase to determine whether a vendor has purchased sufficient quantities of supplemental foods to provide participants the quantities specified on food instruments redeemed by the vendor during a given period of time.
Local agency
means: (a) A public or private, nonprofit health or human service agency which provides health services, either directly or through contract, in accordance with § 246.5; (b) an IHS service unit; (c) an Indian tribe, band or group recognized by the Department of the Interior which operates a health clinic or is provided health services by an IHS service unit; or (d) an intertribal council or group that is an authorized representative of Indian tribes, bands or groups recognized by the Department of the Interior, which operates a health clinic or is provided health services by an IHS service unit.
Members of populations
means persons with a common special need who do not necessarily reside in a specific geographic area, such as off-reservation Indians or migrant farmworkers and their families.
Migrant farmworker
means an individual whose principal employment is
in agriculture on a seasonal basis, who has been so employed within the last 24 months, and who establishes, for the purposes of such employment, a temporary abode.
Multi-function equipment
means Point-of-Sale equipment obtained by a WIC vendor through commercial suppliers, which is capable of supporting WIC EBT and other payment tender types.
Net price
means the difference between an infant formula manufacturer's lowest national wholesale price per unit for a full truckload of infant formula and the rebate level or the discount offered or provided by the manufacturer under an infant formula cost containment contract.
Non-contract brand infant formula
means all infant formula, including exempt infant formula, that is not covered by an infant formula cost containment contract awarded by that State agency.
Nonprofit agency
means a private agency which is exempt from income tax under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.
Nutrition education
means individual and group sessions and the provision of materials that are designed to improve health status and achieve positive change in dietary and physical activity habits, and that emphasize the relationship between nutrition, physical activity, and health, all in keeping with the personal and cultural preferences of the individual.
Nutrition Services and Administration (NSA) Costs
means those direct and indirect costs, exclusive of food costs, as defined in § 246.14(c), which State and local agencies determine to be necessary to support Program operations. Costs include, but are not limited to, the costs of Program administration, start-up, monitoring, auditing, the development of and accountability for food delivery systems, nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support, outreach, certification, and developing and printing food instruments and cash-value vouchers.
Nutritional risk
means: (a) Detrimental or abnormal nutritional conditions detectable by biochemical or anthropometric measurements; (b) Other documented nutritionally related medical conditions; (c) Dietary deficiencies that impair or endanger health; (d) Conditions that directly affect the nutritional health of a person, including alcoholism or drug abuse; or (e) Conditions that predispose persons to inadequate nutritional patterns or nutritionally related medical conditions, including, but not limited to, homelessness and migrancy.
OIG
means the Department's Office of the Inspector General.
Other harmful substances
means other substances such as tobacco, prescription drugs and over-the-counter medications that can be harmful to the health of the WIC population, especially the pregnant woman and her fetus.
Partially-redeemed food instrument
means a paper food instrument which is redeemed for less than all of the supplemental foods authorized for that food instrument.
Participant violation
means any deliberate action of a participant, parent, or caretaker of an infant or child participant, or proxy that violates Federal or State statutes, regulations, policies, or procedures governing the Program. Participant violations include, but are not limited to, deliberately making false or misleading statements or deliberately misrepresenting, concealing, or withholding facts, to obtain benefits; selling or offering to sell WIC benefits, cash-value vouchers, paper food instruments, EBT cards, supplemental foods, or breast pumps in person, in print, or online; exchanging or attempting to exchange WIC benefits, cash-value vouchers, paper food instruments, EBT cards, supplemental foods, or breast pumps for cash, credit, services, non-food items, or unauthorized food items, including supplemental foods in excess of those listed on the participant's food instrument; threatening to harm or physically harming clinic, farmer, farmers' market, or vendor staff; and dual participation.
Participants
means pregnant women, breastfeeding women, postpartum women, infants and children who are receiving supplemental foods or food instruments or cash-value vouchers under the Program, and the breastfed infants of participant breastfeeding women.
Participation
means the sum of:
(1) The number of persons who received supplemental foods or food instruments during the reporting period;
(2) The number of infants who did not receive supplemental foods or food instruments but whose breastfeeding mother received supplemental foods or food instruments during the report period; and
(3) The number of breastfeeding women who did not receive supplemental foods or food instruments but whose infant received supplemental foods or food instruments during the report period.
Postpartum women
means women up to six months after termination of pregnancy.
Poverty income guidelines
means the poverty income guidelines prescribed by the Department of Health and Human Services. These guidelines are adjusted annually by the Department of Health and Human Services, with each annual adjustment effective July 1 of each year. The poverty income guidelines prescribed by the Department of Health and Human Services shall be used for all States, as defined in this section, except for Alaska and Hawaii. Separate poverty income guidelines are prescribed for Alaska and Hawaii.
Pregnant women
means women determined to have one or more embryos or fetuses in utero.
Price adjustment
means an adjustment made by the State agency, in accordance with the vendor agreement, to the purchase price on a food instrument after it has been submitted by a vendor for redemption to ensure that the payment to the vendor for the food instrument complies with the State agency's price limitations.
Primary contract infant formula
means the specific infant formula for which manufacturers submit a bid to a State agency in response to a rebate solicitation and for which a contract is awarded by the State agency as a result of that bid.
Program
means the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.
Proxy
means any person designated by a woman participant, or by a parent or caretaker of an infant or child participant, to obtain and transact food instruments or cash-value vouchers or to obtain supplemental foods on behalf of a participant. The proxy must be designated consistent with the State agency's procedures established pursuant to § 246.12(r)(1). Parents or caretakers applying on behalf of child and infant participants are not proxies.
Qualified administrative requirement
means a statutory requirement under Section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (CNA; 42 U.S.C. 1786) or a regulatory requirement issued pursuant to this section.
Rebate
means the amount of money refunded under cost containment procedures to any State agency from the manufacturer of the particular food product as the result of the purchase of the supplemental food with a voucher or other purchase instrument by a participant in each State agency's program. Such rebates shall be payments made subsequent to the exchange of a food instrument for food.
Recall
means recall as defined in 21 CFR 7.3(g) or any successor regulation. Recalls may be conducted voluntarily by a manufacturer or may be required by FDA.
Remote Indian or Native village
means an Indian or Native village that is located in a rural area, has a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, and is not accessible year-round by means of a public road (as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101).
Routine monitoring
means overt, on-site monitoring during which program representatives identify themselves to vendor personnel.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
SFPD
means the Supplemental Food Programs Division of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Sign or signature
means a handwritten signature on paper or an electronic signature. If the State agency chooses to use electronic signatures, the State agency must ensure the reliability and integrity of the technology used and the security and confidentiality of
electronic signatures collected in accordance with sound management practices, and applicable Federal law and policy, and the confidentiality requirements in § 246.26.
Single-function equipment
means Point-of-Sale equipment, such as barcode scanners, card readers, PIN pads and printers, provided to an authorized WIC vendor solely for use with the WIC Program.
State
means any of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
State agency
means the health department or comparable agency of each State; an Indian tribe, band or group recognized by the Department of the Interior; an intertribal council or group which is an authorized representative of Indian tribes, bands or groups recognized by the Department of the Interior and which has an ongoing relationship with such tribes, bands or groups for other purposes and has contracted with them to administer the Program; or the appropriate area office of the IHS.
State alliance
means two or more State agencies that join together for the purpose of procuring infant formula under the Program by soliciting competitive bids for infant formula.
State Plan
means a plan of Program operation and administration that describes the manner in which the State agency intends to implement and operate all aspects of Program administration within its jurisdiction in accordance with § 246.4.
Statewide EBT
means the State agency has converted all WIC clinics to an EBT delivery method and all authorized vendors are capable of transacting EBT purchases.
Supplemental foods
means those foods containing nutrients determined by nutritional research to be lacking in the diets of pregnant, breastfeeding and postpartum women, infants, and children, and foods that promote the health of the population served by the WIC Program as indicated by relevant nutrition science, public health concerns, and cultural eating patterns, as prescribed by the Secretary in § 246.10.
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP),
formerly known as the Food Stamp Program, is the program authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011,
et. seq.
), in which eligible households receive benefits that can be used to purchase food items from authorized retail stores and farmers' markets.
Supply chain disruption
means a shortage of WIC supplemental foods that limits WIC participants' ability reasonably to purchase supplemental foods using WIC benefits within a State agency's jurisdiction, as determined, and declared by the Secretary for the purposes of WIC.
USDA implementing regulations
include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
Vendor
means a sole proprietorship, partnership, cooperative association, corporation, or other business entity operating one or more stores authorized by the State agency to provide authorized supplemental foods to participants under a retail food delivery system. Each store operated by a business entity constitutes a separate vendor and must be authorized separately from other stores operated by the business entity. Each store must have a single, fixed location, except when the authorization of mobile stores is necessary to meet the special needs described in the State agency's State Plan in accordance with § 246.4(a)(14)(xiv).
Vendor authorization
means the process by which the State agency assesses, selects, and enters into agreements with stores that apply or subsequently reapply to be authorized as vendors.
Vendor limiting criteria
means criteria established by the State agency to determine the maximum number and distribution of vendors it authorizes pursuant to § 246.12(g)(2).
Vendor overcharge
means intentionally or unintentionally charging
the State agency more for authorized supplemental foods than is permitted under the vendor agreement. It is not a vendor overcharge when a vendor submits a food instrument for redemption and the State agency makes a price adjustment to the food instrument.
Vendor peer group system
means a classification of authorized vendors into groups based on common characteristics or criteria that affect food prices, for the purpose of applying appropriate competitive price criteria to vendors at authorization and limiting payments for food to competitive levels.
Vendor selection criteria
means the criteria established by the State agency to select individual vendors for authorization consistent with the requirements in § 246.12(g)(3) and (g)(4).
Vendor violation
means any intentional or unintentional action of a vendor's current owners, officers, managers, agents, or employees (with or without the knowledge of management) that violates the vendor agreement or Federal or State statutes, regulations, policies, or procedures governing the Program.
WIC
means the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, 42 U.S.C. 1786.
WIC-eligible nutritionals for participants with qualifying conditions (hereafter referred to as “WIC-eligible nutritionals”)
means certain enteral products that are specifically formulated and commercially manufactured (as opposed to a naturally occurring foodstuff used in its natural state) to provide nutritional support for individuals with a qualifying condition, when the use of conventional foods is precluded, restricted, or inadequate. Such WIC-eligible nutritionals must serve the purpose of a food, meal, or diet (may be nutritionally complete or incomplete) and provide a source of calories and one or more nutrients; be designed for enteral digestion via an oral or tube feeding; and may not be a conventional food, drug, flavoring, or enzyme. WIC-eligible nutritionals include many, but not all, products that meet the definition of medical food in section 5(b)(3) of the Orphan Drug Act (21 U.S.C. 360ee(b)(3)).
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985; 50 FR 8098, Feb. 28, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 246.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 246.3
Administration.
(a)
Delegation to FNS.
Within the Department, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the Program. Within FNS, SFPD and the Regional Offices are responsible for Program administration. FNS shall provide assistance to State and local agencies and evaluate all levels of Program operations to ensure that the goals of the Program are achieved in the most effective and efficient manner possible.
(b)
Delegation to the State agency.
The State agency is responsible for the effective and efficient administration of the Program in accordance with the requirements of this part; the Department's regulations governing nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a, and 15b); governing administration of grants (2 CFR part 200, subparts A through F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415); governing non-procurement debarment/suspension (2 CFR part 180, OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-wide Debarment and Suspension and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 417); governing restrictions on lobbying (2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, part 415, and part 418); and governing the drug-free workplace requirements (2 CFR part 182, Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace); FNS guidelines; and, instructions issued under the FNS Directives Management System. The State agency shall provide guidance to local agencies on all aspects of Program operations.
(c)
Agreement and State Plan.
(1) Each State agency desiring to administer the Program shall annually submit a State Plan and enter into a written
agreement with the Department for administration of the Program in the jurisdiction of the State agency in accordance with the provisions of this part.
(2) The written agreement shall include a certification regarding lobbying and, if applicable, a disclosure of lobbying activities, as required by 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, part 415, and part 418.
(3) The written agreement must include a statement that supports full use of Federal funds provided to State agencies for the administration of the WIC Program, and excludes such funds from State budget restrictions or limitations including hiring freezes, work furloughs, and travel restrictions.
(d)
State agency eligibility.
A State agency shall be ineligible to participate in the WIC Program if State or local sales tax is collected on WIC food purchases in the area in which it administers the program, except that, if sales tax is collected on WIC food purchases by sovereign Indian entities which are not State agencies, the State agency shall remain eligible if any vendors collecting such tax are disqualified.
(e)
State staffing standards.
Each State agency shall ensure that sufficient staff is available to administer an efficient and effective Program including, but not limited to, the functions of nutrition education, breastfeeding promotion and support, certification, food delivery, fiscal reporting, monitoring, and training. Based on the June participation of the previous fiscal year, each State agency, as a minimum, shall employ the following staff:
(1) A full-time or equivalent administrator when the monthly participation level exceeds 1,500, or a half-time or equivalent administrator when the monthly participation exceeds 500.
(2) At least one full-time or equivalent Program specialist for each 10,000 participants above 1,500, but the State agency need not employ more than eight Program specialists unless the State agency considers it necessary. Program specialists should be utilized for providing fiscal management and technical assistance, monitoring vendors, reviewing local agencies, training, and nutritional services, or other Program duties as assigned by the State agency.
(3) For nutrition-related services, one full-time or equivalent nutritionist when the monthly participation is above 1,500, or a half-time or equivalent nutritionist when the monthly participation exceeds 500. The nutritionist shall be named State WIC Nutrition Coordinator and shall meet State personnel standards and qualifications in paragraphs (e)(3) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of this section and have the qualifications in paragraph (e)(3)(vi) of this section. Upon request, an exception to these qualifications may be granted by FNS. The State WIC Nutrition Coordinator shall—
(i) Hold a Master's degree with emphasis in food and nutrition, community nutrition, public health nutrition, nutrition education, human nutrition, nutrition science or equivalent and have at least two years responsible experience as a nutritionist in education, social service, maternal and child health, public health, nutrition, or dietetics; or
(ii) Be registered or eligible for registration with the American Dietetic Association and have at least two years experience; or
(iii) Have at least a Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts degree, from an accredited four-year institution, with emphasis in food and nutrition, community nutrition, public health nutrition, nutrition education, human nutrition, nutrition science or equivalent and have at least three years of responsible experience as a nutritionist in education, social service, maternal and child health, public health nutrition, or dietetics; or
(iv) Be qualified as a Senior Public Health Nutritionist under the Department of Health and Human Services guidelines; or
(v) Meet the IHS standards for a Public Health Nutritionist; and
(vi) Have at least one of the following: Program development skills, education background and experience in the development of educational and training resource materials, community action experience, counseling skills or experience in participant advocacy.
(4) A designated breastfeeding promotion coordinator, to coordinate breastfeeding promotion efforts identified in the State plan in accordance with the requirement of § 246.4(a)(9) of this part. The person to whom the State agency assigns this responsibility may perform other duties as well.
(5) A staff person designated for food delivery system management. The person to whom the State agency assigns this responsibility may perform other duties as well.
(6) The State agency shall enforce hiring practices which comply with the nondiscrimination criteria set forth in § 246.8. The hiring of minority staff is encouraged.
(f)
Delegation to local agency.
The local agency shall provide Program benefits to participants in the most effective and efficient manner, and shall comply with this part, the Department's regulations governing nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a, 15b), the regulations governing the administration of grants (2 CFR part 200, subpart A-F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415), Office of Management and Budget Circular A-130, and State agency and FNS guidelines and instructions.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985; 50 FR 8098, Feb. 28, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 21236, June 4, 1987; 59 FR 11499, Mar. 11, 1994; 65 FR 83277, Dec. 29, 2000; 71 FR 56728, Sept. 27, 2006; 76 FR 37983, June 29, 2011; 76 FR 59888, Sept. 28, 2011; 81 FR 10449, Mar. 1, 2016; 81 FR 66494, 66495, Sept. 28, 2016]

# Subpart B—State and Local Agency Eligibility
§ 246.4
State plan.
(a)
Requirements.
By August 15 of each year, each State agency shall submit to FNS for approval a State Plan for the following fiscal year as a prerequisite to receiving funds under this section. The State agency may submit the State Plan in the format provided by FNS guidance. Alternatively, the State agency may submit the Plan in combination with other federally required planning documents or develop its own format, provided that the information required below is included. FNS requests advance notification that a State agency intends to use an alternative format. The State Plan shall be signed by the State designated official responsible for ensuring that the Program is operated in accordance with the State Plan. FNS will provide written approval or denial of a completed State Plan or amendment within 30 days of receipt. Within 15 days after FNS receives an incomplete Plan, FNS will notify the State agency that additional information is needed to complete the Plan. Any disapproval will be accompanied by a statement of the reasons for the disapproval. After receiving approval of the State Plan, each State agency shall only submit to FNS for approval substantive changes in the State Plan. A complete and approved Plan shall include:
(1) An outline of the State agency's goals and objectives for improving Program operations, to include EBT and/or EBT implementation.
(2) A budget for nutrition services and administration funds, and an estimate of food expenditures.
(3) An estimate of Statewide participation for the coming fiscal year by category of women, infants and children.
(4) The State agency staffing pattern.
(5) An Affirmative Action Plan which includes—
(i) A list of all areas and special populations, in priority order based on relative need, within the jurisdiction of the State agency, the State agency's plans to initiate or expand operations under the Program in areas most in need of supplemental foods, including plans to inform nonparticipating local agencies of the availability and benefits of the Program and the availability of technical assistance in implementing the Program, and a description of how the State agency will take all reasonable actions to identify potential local agencies and encourage agencies to implement or expand operations under the Program within the following year in the neediest one-third of all areas unserved or partially served;
(ii) An estimate of the number of potentially eligible persons in each area and a list of the areas in the Affirmative Action Plan which are currently
operating the Program and their current participation, which participant priority levels as specified in § 246.7 are being reached in each of these areas, and which areas in the Affirmative Action Plan are currently operating CSFP and their current participation; and
(iii) A list of the names and addresses of all local agencies.
(6) Plans to provide program benefits to eligible migrant farmworkers and their families, to Indians, and to homeless individuals.
(7) The State agency's plans, to be conducted in cooperation with local agencies, for informing eligible persons of the availability of Program benefits, including the eligibility criteria for participation, the location of local agencies operating the Program, and the institutional conditions of § 246.7(n)(1)(i) of this part, with emphasis on reaching and enrolling eligible women in the early months of pregnancy and migrants. Such information shall be publicly announced by the State agency and by local agencies at least annually. Such information shall also be distributed to offices and organizations that deal with significant numbers of potentially eligible persons, including health and medical organizations, hospitals and clinics, welfare and unemployment offices, social service agencies, farmworker organizations, Indian tribal organizations, organizations and agencies serving homeless individuals, and religious and community organizations in low-income areas.
(8) A description of how the State agency plans to coordinate program operations with other services or programs that may benefit participants in, or applicants for, the program.
(9) The State agency's nutrition education goals and action plans to include:
(i) A description of the methods that will be used to provide drug and other harmful substance abuse information, to promote and support breastfeeding, and to meet the special nutrition education needs of migrant farmworkers and their families, Indians, and homeless persons.
(ii) State agencies have the option to provide nutrition education materials to institutions participating in the CACFP at no cost, as long as a written agreement for sharing such materials is in place between the relevant WIC and CACFP entities. State agencies may initiate a sharing agreement with their State-level CACFP counterparts that would apply statewide, or may authorize their local agencies or clinics to initiate a sharing agreement at the local level with their local level CACFP counterparts.
(10) For Indian State or local agencies that wish to apply for the alternate income determination procedure in accordance with § 246.7(d)(2)(vii), documentation that the majority of Indian household members have incomes below eligibility criteria.
(11) A copy of the procedure manual developed by the State agency for guidance to local agencies in operating the Program. The manual shall include—
(i) Certification procedures, including:
(A) A list of the specific nutritional risk criteria by priority level which explains how a person's nutritional risk is determined;
(B) Hematological data requirements including timeframes for the collection of such data;
(C) The procedures for requiring proof of pregnancy, consistent with § 246.7(c)(2)(ii), if the State agency chooses to require such proof;
(D) The State agency's income guidelines for Program eligibility;
(E) Adjustments to the participant priority system (see § 246.7(e)(4)) to accommodate high-risk postpartum women or the addition of Priority VII; and,
(F) Alternate language for the statement of rights and responsibilities which is provided to applicants, parents, or caretakers when applying for benefits as outlined in § 246.7(i)(10) and (j)(2)(i) through (j)(2)(iii). This alternate language must be approved by FNS before it can be used in the required statement.
(ii) Methods for providing nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, to participants. Nutrition education will include information on drug abuse and other harmful substances. Participants will include homeless individuals.
(iii) Instructions concerning all food delivery operations performed at the local level, including the list of acceptable foods and their maximum monthly quantities as required by § 246.10(b)(2)(i).
(iv) Instructions for providing all records and reports which the State agency requires local agencies to maintain and submit; and
(v) Instructions on coordinating operations under the program with drug and other harmful substance abuse counseling and treatment services.
(12) A description of the State agency's financial management system.
(13) A description of how the State agency will distribute nutrition services and administration funds, including start-up funds, to local agencies operating under the Program.
(14) A description of the food delivery system as it operates at the State agency level, including—
(i)
Type of system.
All food delivery systems in use within the State agency's jurisdiction;
(ii)
Vendor limiting and selection criteria.
Vendor limiting criteria, if used by the State agency, and the vendor selection criteria established by the State agency consistent with the requirements in § 246.12(g)(3) and (g)(4);
(iii)
A sample vendor, farmer and/or farmers' market, if applicable, agreement.
The sample vendor agreement must include the sanction schedule, the process for notification of violations in accordance with § 246.12(l)(3), and the State agency's policies and procedures on incentive items in accordance with § 246.12(g)(3)(iv), which may be incorporated as attachments or, if the sanction schedule, the process for notification of violations, or policies on incentive items are in the State agency's regulations, through citations to the regulations. State agencies that intend to delegate signing of vendor, farmer and/or farmers' market agreements to local agencies must describe the State agency supervision and instruction that will be provided to ensure the uniformity and quality of local agency activities;
(iv)
Vendor monitoring.
The system for monitoring vendors to ensure compliance and prevent fraud, waste, and program noncompliance, and the State agency's plans for improvement in the coming year in accordance with § 246.12(j). The State agency must also include the criteria it will use to determine which vendors will receive routine monitoring visits. State agencies that intend to delegate any aspect of vendor monitoring responsibilities to a local agency or contractor must describe the State agency supervision and instruction that will be provided to ensure the uniformity and quality of vendor monitoring;
(v)
Farmer monitoring.
The system for monitoring farmers and/or farmers' markets within its jurisdiction, if applicable, for compliance with program requirements;
(vi)
Options regarding trafficking convictions.
The option exercised by the State agency to sanction vendors pursuant to § 246.12(l)(1)(i).
(vii)
Food instruments and cash-value vouchers.
A facsimile of the food instrument and cash-value voucher, if used, and a description of the system the State agency will use to account for the disposition of food instruments and cash value vouchers in accordance with § 246.12(q);
(viii)
Names of contractors.
The names of companies, excluding authorized vendors, with whom the State agency has contracted to participate in the operation of the food delivery system;
(ix)
Nutrition services and administration funds conversion
For State agencies applying for authority to convert food funds to nutrition services and administration funds under § 246.16(g), a full description of their proposed cost-cutting system or system modification;
(x)
Homeless participants.
If the State agency plans to adapt its food delivery system to accommodate the needs of homeless individuals, a description of such adaptations;
(xi)
Infant formula cost containment.
A description of any infant formula cost containment system. A State agency must submit a State Plan or Plan amendment if it is attempting to structure and justify a system that is not a single-supplier competitive bidding system for infant formula in accordance with § 246.16a(d); is requesting a waiver for an infant formula cost containment system under § 246.16a(e); or,
is planning to change or modify its current system or implement a system for the first time. The amendment must be submitted at least 90 days before the proposed effective date of the system change. The plan amendment must include documentation for requests for waivers based on interference with efficient or effective program operations; a cost comparison analysis conducted under § 246.16a(d)(2); and a description of the proposed cost containment system. If FNS disputes supporting plan amendment documentation, it will deem the Plan amendment incomplete under this paragraph (a), and will provide the State agency with a statement outlining disputed issues within 15 days of receipt of the Plan amendment. The State agency may not enter into any infant formula cost containment contract until the disputed issues are resolved and FNS has given its consent. If necessary, FNS may grant a postponement of implementation of an infant formula cost containment system under § 246.16a(f). If at the end of the postponement period issues remain unresolved the State agency must proceed with a cost containment system judged by FNS to comply with the provisions of this part. If the State agency does not comply, it will be subject to the penalties set forth in § 246.16a(i);
(xii)
Vendor, farmer and/or farmers' market training.
The procedures the State agency will use to train vendors (in accordance with § 246.12(i)), farmers and/or farmers' markets (in accordance with § 246.12(v)). State agencies that intend to delegate any aspect of training to a local agency, contractor, vendor or farmer representative must describe the supervision and instructions that will be provided by the State agency to ensure the uniformity and quality of vendor, farmer and/or farmers' market training;
(xiii)
Food instrument and cash-value voucher security.
A description of the State agency's system for ensuring food instrument and cash-value voucher security in accordance with § 246.12(p);
(xiv)
Participant access determination criteria.
A description of the State agency's participant access determination criteria consistent with § 246.12(l); and
(xv)
Mobile stores.
The special needs necessitating the authorization of mobile stores, if the State agency chooses to authorize such stores.
(xvi)
Vendor cost containment.
A description of the State agency's vendor peer group system, competitive price criteria, and allowable reimbursement levels that demonstrates that the State agency is in compliance with the cost containment provisions in § 246.12(g)(4); information on non-profit above-50-percent vendors that the State agency has exempted from competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels in § 246.12(g)(4)(iv); a justification and documentation supporting the State agency's request for an exemption from the vendor peer group requirement in § 246.12(g)(4), if applicable; and, if the State agency authorizes any above-50-percent vendors, information required by FNS to determine whether the State agency's vendor cost containment system meets the requirements in § 246.12(g)(4)(i).
(xvii)
Other cost containment systems.
A description of any other food cost containment systems (such as juice and cereal rebates and food item restrictions).
(xviii)
List of infant formula wholesalers, distributors, and retailers.
The policies and procedures for compiling and distributing to authorized WIC retail vendors, on an annual or more frequent basis, as required by § 246.12(g)(11), a list of infant formula wholesalers, distributors, and retailers licensed in the State in accordance with State law (including regulations), and infant formula manufacturers registered with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that provide infant formula. The vendor may provide only the authorized infant formula which the vendor has obtained from a source included on the list described in § 246.12(g)(11) to participants in exchange for food instruments specifying infant formula.
(xix) A description of how the State agency will replace lost, stolen, or damaged EBT cards and transfer the associated benefits within seven business days.
(xx) A description of the procedures established by the State agency to provide customer service during non-business hours that enable participants or proxies to report a lost, stolen, or damaged card, report other card or benefit issues, receive information on the EBT food balance and receive the current benefit end date. The procedures shall address how the State agency will respond to reports of a lost, stolen, or damaged card within one business day of the date of report.
(15) The State agency's procedures for accepting and processing vendor applications outside of its established timeframes if the State agency determines there will otherwise be inadequate participant access to the WIC Program.
(16) The State agency's plans to prevent and identify dual participation in accordance with § 246.7(l)(1)(i) and (l)(1)(ii). In States where the Program and the CSFP operate in the same area, or where an Indian State agency operates a Program in the same area as a geographic State agency, a copy of the written agreement between the State agencies for the detection and prevention of dual participation shall be submitted.
(17) A description of the procedures the State will use to comply with the civil rights requirements described in § 246.8, including the processing of discrimination complaints.
(18) A copy of the State agency's fair hearing procedures for participants and the administrative appeal procedures for local agencies, food vendors, farmers and farmers' markets.
(19) The State agency's plan to ensure that participants receive required health and nutrition assessments when certified for a period of greater than six months.
(20) The State agency's plan to reach and enroll migrants, and eligible women in the early months of pregnancy.
(21) The State agency's plan to establish, to the extent practicable, that homeless facilities, and institutions if it chooses to make the Program available to them, meet the conditions established in § 246.7(n)(1)(i) of this part, if residents of such accommodations are to be eligible to receive WIC Program benefits.
(22) A plan to provide program benefits to unserved infants and children under the care of foster parents, protective services, or child welfare authorities, including infants exposed to drugs perinatally.
(23) A plan to improve access to the Program for participants and prospective applicants who are employed or who reside in rural areas, by addressing their special needs through the adoption or revision of procedures and practices to minimize the time participants and applicants must spend away from work and the distances participants and applicants must travel. The State agency shall also describe any plans for issuance of food instruments and cash-value vouchers to employed or rural participants, or to any other segment of the participant population, through means other than direct participant pick-up, pursuant to § 246.12(r)(4). Such description shall also include measures to ensure the integrity of Program services and fiscal accountability. The State agency will also describe its policy for approving transportation of participants to and from WIC clinics.
(24) Assurance that each local agency and any subgrantees of the State agency and/or local agencies are in compliance with the requirements of 2 CFR part 180, OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-wide Debarment and Suspension and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 417 regarding nonprocurement debarment/suspension.
(25) A description of the State agency's plans to provide and maintain a drug-free workplace in compliance with requirements in 2 CFR part 180, Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance) and USDA implementing regulation 2 CFR part 421.
(26) A list of all organizations with which the State agency or its local agencies has executed or intends to execute a written agreement pursuant to § 246.26(h) authorizing the use and disclosure of confidential applicant and participant information for non-WIC purposes.
(27) The State agency's policies and procedures for preventing conflicts of interest at the local agency or clinic
level in a reasonable manner. At a minimum, this plan must prohibit the following WIC certification practices by local agency or clinic employees, or provide effective alternative policies and procedures when such prohibition is not possible:
(i) Certifying oneself;
(ii) Certifying relatives or close friends; or,
(iii) One employee determining eligibility for all certification criteria and issuing food instruments, cash-value vouchers or supplemental food for the same participant.
(28) The State agency's plan for collecting and maintaining information on cases of participant and employee fraud and abuse. Such information should include the nature of the fraud detected and the associated dollar losses.
(29) The State agency's Universal Identifier number.
(30) Plans of alternate operating procedures, commonly referred to as disaster plans, to support the continuation of WIC services during an emergency period as defined at § 246.2, supply chain disruption as defined at § 246.2, and supplemental food recall. State agencies must consider the unique and sudden nature of an emergency period, supplemental food recall, and other supply chain disruptions when developing alternate operating procedures. Alternate procedures must describe the process by which the State agency will minimize the negative impact to WIC operations and services and ensure the availability of authorized supplemental foods, especially infant formula, to the extent feasible. At a minimum, alternate operating procedures must include-
(i) A plan to address operation of specific Program areas including-
(A) Access to Program records;
(B) Alternate certification and benefit issuance
(C) Verification of Certification (VOC) issuance
(D) Food package adjustments;
(E) Vendor requirements;
(F) Benefit redemption; and
(G) Food delivery systems.
(ii) A plan to ensure continuity of WIC services and address the needs of participants with documented qualifying conditions receiving Food Package III, rural areas, Indian tribal organizations, and other priority populations in the affected area as applicable;
(iii) A designated emergency contact within the State agency for emergency periods, supplemental food recalls, and other supply chain disruptions;
(iv) A designated emergency contact within the State agency to address the needs of participants with documented qualifying conditions receiving Food Package III;
(v) A plan to establish relationships with relief agencies responsible for disaster and public health emergency planning applicable to the State agency's jurisdiction and participants to support data-informed approaches when responding to emergency periods, supplemental food recalls, and other supply chain disruptions;
(vi) A plan to limit the disruption of infant formula benefits in the event of an emergency period, supplemental food recall, and other supply chain disruptions;
(vii) A communications plan to keep FNS, State and local agency staff, authorized WIC vendors, WIC participants, and the public informed during an emergency period supplemental food recall, and other supply chain disruptions;
(viii) A plan to report to FNS on alternate operating procedures implemented during an emergency period, supplemental food recall, and other supply chain disruptions which includes Program data and information on the impact of benefit use and delivery; and
(ix) A plan to adjust State agency specific minimum requirements for the variety and quantity of supplemental foods that a vendor applicant must stock to be authorized.
(b)
Public comment.
The State agency shall establish a procedure under which members of the general public are provided an opportunity to comment on the development of the State agency plan.
(c)
Amendments.
At any time after approval, the State agency may amend the State Plan to reflect changes. The
State agency shall submit the amendments to FNS for approval. The amendments shall be signed by the State designated official responsible for ensuring that the Program is operated in accordance with the State Plan.
(d)
Retention of copy.
A copy of the approved State Plan or the WIC portion of the State's composite plan of operations shall be kept on file at the State agency for public inspection.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985]

# Editorial Note
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 246.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 246.5
Selection of local agencies.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth the procedures the State agency shall perform in the selection of local agencies and the expansion, reduction, and disqualification of local agencies already in operation. In making decisions to intitiate, continue, and discontinue the participation of local agencies, the State agency shall give consideration to the need for Program benefits as delineated in the Affirmative Action Plan.
(b)
Application of local agencies.
The State agency shall require each agency, including subdivisions of the State agency, which desires approval as a local agency, to submit a written local agency application. After the receipt of an incomplete application, the State agency shall provide written notification to the applicant agency of the additional information needed. After the receipt of a complete application, the State agency shall notify the applicant agency in writing of the approval or disapproval of its application. When an application is disapproved, the State agency shall advise the applicant agency of the reasons for disapproval and of the right to appeal as set forth in § 246.18. When an agency submits an application and there are no funds to serve the area, the applicant agency shall be notified that there are currently no funds available for Program initiation or expansion. The applicant agency shall be notified by the State agency when funds become available.
(c)
Program initiation and expansion.
The State agency shall meet the following requirements concerning Program initiation and expansion:
(1) The State agency will consider the Affirmative Action Plan (see § 246.4(a)(5)) when funding local agencies and expanding existing operations, and may consider how much of the current need is being met at each priority level. The selection criteria cited in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be applied to each area or special population before eliminating that area from consideration and serving the next area of special population. The State agency shall consider the number of participants in each priority level being served by existing local agencies in determining when it is appropriate to move into additional areas in the Affirmative Action Plan or to expand existing operations in an area. Additionally, the State agency shall consider the total number of people potentially eligible in each area compared to the number being served.
(2) The State agency shall provide a written justification to FNS for not funding an agency to serve the highest priority area or special population. Such justification may include its inability to administer the Program, lack of interest expressed for operating the Program, or for those areas or special populations which are under consideration for expansion of an existing operation, a determination by the State agency that there is a greater need for funding an agency serving an area or special population not operating the Program. The State agency shall use the participant priority system in § 246.7 as a measurement of greater need in such determination.
(3) The State agency may fund more than one local agency to serve the same area or special population as long as more than one local agency is necessary to serve the full extent of need in that area or special population.
(d)
Local agency priority system.
The State agency shall establish standards for the selection of new local agencies. Such standards shall include the following considerations:
(1) The State agency shall consider the following priority system, which is based on the relative availability of health and administrative services, in the selection of local agencies:
(i) First consideration shall be given to a public or a private nonprofit health agency that will provide ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care and administrative services.
(ii) Second consideration shall be given to a public or a private nonprofit health or human service agency that will enter into a written agreement with another agency for either ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care or administrative services.
(iii) Third consideration shall be given to a public or private nonprofit health agency that will enter into a written agreement with private physicians, licensed by the State, in order to provide ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care to a specific category of participants (women, infants or children).
(iv) Fourth consideration shall be given to a public or private nonprofit human service agency that will enter into a written agreement with private physicians, licensed by the State, to provide ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care.
(v) Fifth consideration shall be given to a public or private nonprofit health or human service agency that will provide ongoing, routine pediatric and obstetric care through referral to a health provider.
(2) The State agency must, when seeking new local agencies, publish a notice in the local media (unless it has received an application from a local public or nonprofit private health agency that can provide adequate services). The notice will include a brief explanation of the Program, a description of the local agency priority system (outlined in this paragraph (d)), and a request that potential local agencies notify the State agency of their interest. In addition, the State agency will contact all potential local agencies to make sure they are aware of the opportunity to apply. If an application is not submitted within 30 days, the State agency may then select a local agency in another area. If sufficient funds are available, a State agency will give notice and consider applications outside the local area at the same time.
(e)
Disqualification of local agencies.
(1) The State agency may disqualify a local agency—
(i) When the State agency determines noncompliance with Program regulations;
(ii) When the State's Program funds are insufficient to support the continued operation of all its existing local agencies at their current participation level; or
(iii) When the State agency determines, following a review of local agency credentials in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that another local agency can operate the Program more effectively and efficiently.
(2) The State agency may establish its own criteria for disqualification of local agencies. The State agency shall notify the local agency of any State-established criteria. In addition to any State established criteria, the State agency shall consider, at a minimum—
(i) The availability of other community resources to participants and the cost efficiency and cost effectiveness of the local agency in terms of both food and nutrition services and administration costs;
(ii) The percentages of participants in each priority level being served by the local agency and the percentage of need being met in each participant category;
(iii) The relative position of the area or special population served by the local agency in the Affirmative Action Plan;
(iv) The local agency's place in the priority system in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and
(v) The capability of another local agency or agencies to accept the local agency's participants.
(3) When disqualifying a local agency under the Program, the State agency shall—
(i) Make every effort to transfer affected participants to another local agency without disruption of benefits;
(ii) Provide the affected local agency with written notice not less than 60 days in advance of the pending action which includes an explanation of the reasons for disqualification, the date of disqualification, and, except in cases of the expiration of a local agency's agreement, the local agency's right to appeal as set forth in § 246.18; and
(iii) Ensure that the action is not in conflict with any existing written
agreements between the State and the local agency.
(f)
Periodic review of local agency qualifications.
The State agency may conduct periodic reviews of the qualifications of authorized local agencies under its jurisdiction. Based upon the results of such reviews the State agency may make appropriate adjustments among the participating local agencies, including the disqualification of a local agency when the State agency determines that another local agency can operate the Program more effectively and efficiently. In conducting such reviews, the State agency shall consider the factors listed in paragraph (e)(2) of this section in addition to whatever criteria it may develop. The State agency shall implement the procedures established in paragraph (e)(3) of this section when disqualifying a local agency.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985; 50 FR 8098, Feb. 28, 1985; 65 FR 53527, Sept. 5, 2000; 71 FR 56728, Sept. 27, 2006]
§ 246.6
Agreements with local agencies.
(a)
Signed written agreements.
The State agency shall enter into a signed written agreement with each local agency, including subdivisions of the State agency, which sets forth the local agency's responsibilities for Program operations as prescribed in this part. Copies of the agreement shall be kept on file at both the State and local agencies for purposes of review and audit in accordance with §§ 246.19 and 246.20. Neither the State agency nor the local agency has an obligation to renew the agreement. The expiration of an agreement is not subject to appeal. The State agency shall provide local agencies with advance written notice of the expiration of an agreement as required under §§ 246.5(e)(3)(ii) and 246.18(b)(1).
(b)
Provisions of agreement.
The agreement between the State agency and each local agency shall ensure that the local agency—
(1) Complies with all the fiscal and operational requirements prescribed by the State agency pursuant to debarment and suspension requirements and if applicable, the lobbying restrictions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, part 415, and part 417, and FNS guidelines and instructions, and provides on a timely basis to the State agency all required information regarding fiscal and Program information;
(2) Has a competent professional authority on the staff of the local agency and the capabilities necessary to perform the certification procedures;
(3) Makes available appropriate health services to participants and informs applicants of the health services which are available;
(4) Prohibits smoking in the space used to carry out the WIC Program during the time any aspect of WIC services are performed;
(5) Has a plan for continued efforts to make health services available to participants at the clinic or through written agreements with health care providers when health services are provided through referral;
(6) Provides nutrition education services, including breastfeeding promotion and support, to participants, in compliance with § 246.11 and FNS guidelines and instructions;
(7) Implements a food delivery system prescribed by the State agency pursuant to § 246.12 and approved by FNS;
(8) Maintains complete, accurate, documented and current accounting of all Program funds received and expended;
(9) Maintains on file and has available for review, audit, and evaluation all criteria used for certification, including information on the area served, income standards used, and specific criteria used to determine nutritional risk; and
(10) Does not discriminate against persons on the grounds of race, color, national origin, age, sex or handicap; and compiles data, maintains records and submits reports as required to permit effective enforcement of the nondiscrimination laws.
(c)
Indian agencies.
Each Indian State agency shall ensure that all local agencies under its jurisdiction serve primarily Indian populations.
(d)
Health and human service agencies.
When a health agency and a human service agency comprise the local agency, both agencies shall together meet
all the requirements of this part and shall enter into a written agreement which outlines all Program responsibilities of each agency. The agreement shall be approved by the State agency during the application process and shall be on file at both the State and local agency. No Program funds shall be used to reimburse the health agency for the health services provided. However, costs of certification borne by the health agency may be reimbursed.
(e)
Health or human service agencies and private physicians.
When a health or human service agency and private physician(s) comprise the local agency, all parties shall together meet all of the requirements of this part and shall enter into a written agreement which outlines the inter-related Program responsibilities between the physician(s) and the local agency. The agreement shall be approved by the State agency during the application process and shall be on file at both agencies. The local agency shall advise the State agency on its application of the name(s) and address(es) of the private physician(s) participating and obtain State agency approval of the written agreement. A competent professional authority on the staff of the health or human service agency shall be responsible for the certification of participants. No Program funds shall be used to reimburse the private physician(s) for the health services provided. However, costs of certification data provided by the physician(s) may be reimbursed.
(f)
Outreach/Certification In Hospitals.
The State agency shall ensure that each local agency operating the program within a hospital and/or that has a cooperative arrangement with a hospital:
(1) Advises potentially eligible individuals that receive inpatient or outpatient prenatal, maternity, or postpartum services, or that accompany a child under the age of 5 who receives well-child services, of the availability of program services; and
(2) To the extent feasible, provides an opportunity for individuals who may be eligible to be certified within the hospital for participation in the WIC Program.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 11500, Mar. 11, 1994; 63 FR 63974, Nov. 18, 1998; 76 FR 59889, Sept. 28, 2011; 81 FR 66495, Sept. 28, 2016]

# Subpart C—Participant Eligibility
§ 246.7
Certification of participants.
(a)
Integration with health services.
To lend administrative efficiency and participant convenience to the certification process, whenever possible, Program intake procedures shall be combined with intake procedures for other health programs or services administered by the State and local agencies. Such merging may include verification procedures, certification interviews, and income computations. Local agencies shall maintain and make available for distribution to all pregnant, postpartum, and breastfeeding women and to parents or caretakers of infants and children applying for and participating in the Program a list of local resources for drug and other harmful substance abuse counseling and treatment.
(b)
Program referral and access.
State and local agencies shall provide WIC Program applicants and participants or their designated proxies with information on other health-related and public assistance programs, and when appropriate, shall refer applicants and participants to such programs.
(1) The State agency shall provide each local WIC agency with materials showing the maximum income limits, according to family size, applicable to pregnant women, infants, and children up to age 5 under the medical assistance program established under Title XIX of the Social Security Act (in this section, referred to as the “Medicaid Program”). The local agency shall, in turn, provide to adult individuals applying or reapplying for the WIC Program for themselves or on behalf of others, written information about the Medicaid Program. If such individuals are not currently participating in Medicaid but appear to have family income below the applicable maximum income limits for the program, the local agency shall also refer these individuals to Medicaid, including the referral of infants and children to the appropriate
entity in the area authorized to determine eligibility for early and periodic screening, diagnostic, and treatment (EPSDT) services, and, the referral of pregnant women to the appropriate entity in the area authorized to determine presumptive eligibility for the Medicaid Program, if such determinations are being offered by the State.
(2) State agencies shall provide WIC services at community and migrant health centers, Indian Health Services facilities, and other federally health care supported facilities established in medically underserved areas to the extent feasible.
(3) Local agencies may provide information about other potential sources of food assistance in the local area to adult individuals applying or reapplying in person for the WIC Program for themselves or on behalf of others, when such applicants cannot be served because the Program is operating at capacity in the local area.
(4) Each local agency that does not routinely schedule appointments shall schedule appointments for employed adult individuals seeking to apply or reapply for participation in the WIC Program for themselves or on behalf of others so as to minimize the time such individuals are absent from the workplace due to such application.
(5) Each local agency shall attempt to contact each pregnant woman who misses her first appointment to apply for participation in the Program in order to reschedule the appointment. At the time of initial contact, the local agency shall request an address and telephone number where the pregnant woman can be reached.
(c)
Eligibility criteria and basic certification procedures.
(1) To qualify for the Program, infants, children, and pregnant, postpartum, and breastfeeding women must:
(i) Reside within the jurisdiction of the State (except for Indian State agencies). Indian State agencies may establish a similar requirement. All State agencies may determine a service area for any local agency, and may require that an applicant reside within the service area. However, the State agency may not use length of residency as an eligibility requirement.
(ii) Meet the income criteria specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(iii) Meet the nutritional risk criteria specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)(i) At certification, the State or local agency must require each applicant to present proof of residency (i.e., location or address where the applicant routinely lives or spends the night) and proof of identity. The State or local agency must also check the identity of participants, or in the case of infants or children, the identity of the parent or guardian, or proxies when issuing food, cash-value vouchers or food instruments. The State agency may authorize the certification of applicants when no proof of residency or identity exists (such as when an applicant or an applicant's parent is a victim of theft, loss, or disaster; a homeless individual; or a migrant farmworker). In these cases, the State or local agency must require the applicant to confirm in writing his/her residency or identity. Further, an individual residing in a remote Indian or Native village or an individual served by an Indian tribal organization and residing on a reservation or pueblo may establish proof of residency by providing the State agency their mailing address and the name of the remote Indian or Native village.
(ii) For a State agency opting to require proof of pregnancy, the State agency may issue benefits to applicants who claim to be pregnant (assuming that all other eligibility criteria are met) but whose conditions (as pregnant) are not visibly noticeable and do not have documented proof of pregnancy at the time of the certification interview and determination. The State agency should then allow a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 60 days, for the applicant to provide the requested documentation. If such documentation is not provided as requested, the woman can no longer be considered categorically eligible, and the local agency would then be justified in terminating the woman's WIC participation in the middle of a certification period.
(3) A State, a State agency, and an Indian Tribal Organization (including,
an Indian tribe, band, or group recognized by the Department of the Interior; or an intertribal council or group which is an authorized representative of Indian tribes, bands or groups recognized by the Department of the Interior and which has an ongoing relationship with such tribes, bands or groups for other purposes and has contracted with them to administer the Program) serving as a State agency, may limit WIC participation to United States citizens, nationals, and qualified aliens as these terms are defined in the Immigration and Nationality Laws (8 U.S.C. 1101
et seq.
). State agencies that implement this option shall inform FNS of their intentions and provide copies of the procedures they will establish regarding the limitation of WIC services to United States citizens, nationals, and qualified aliens.
(4) The certification procedure shall be performed at no cost to the applicant.
(d)
Income criteria and income eligibility determinations.
The State agency shall establish, and provide local agencies with, income guidelines, definitions, and procedures to be used in determining an applicant's income eligibility for the Program.
(1)
Income eligibility guidelines.
The State agency may prescribe income guidelines either equaling the income guidelines established under section 9 of the National School Lunch Act for reduced-price school meals or identical to State or local guidelines for free or reduced-price health care. However, in conforming Program income guidelines to health care guidelines, the State agency shall not establish Program guidelines which exceed the guidelines for reduced-price school meals or are less than 100 percent of the revised poverty income guidelines issued annually by the Department of Health and Human Services. Program applicants who meet the requirements established by paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(A) of this section shall not be subject to the income limits established by State agencies under this paragraph.
(i)
Local agency income eligibility guidelines.
Different guidelines may be prescribed for different local agencies within the State provided that the guidelines are the ones used by the local agencies for determining eligibility for free or reduced-price health care.
(ii)
Annual adjustments in the income guidelines.
On or before June 1 each year, FNS will announce adjustments in the income guidelines for reduced-price meals under section 9 of the National School Lunch Act, based on annual adjustments in the revised poverty income guidelines issued by the Department of Health and Human Services.
(iii) Implementation of the income guidelines. On or before July 1 each year, each State agency shall announce and transmit to each local agency the State agency's family size income guidelines, unless changes in the poverty income guidelines issued by the Department of Health and Human Services do not necessitate changes in the State or local agency's income guidelines. The State agency may implement revised guidelines concurrently with the implementation of income guidelines under the Medicaid program established under Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 of
et seq.
). The State agency shall ensure that conforming adjustments are made, if necessary, in local agency income guidelines. The local agency shall implement (revised) guidelines not later than July 1 of each year for which such guidelines are issued by the State.
(2)
Income eligibility determinations.
The State agency shall ensure that local agencies determine income through the use of a clear and simple application form provided or approved by the State agency.
(i)
Timeframes for determining income.
In determining the income eligibility of an applicant, the State agency may instruct local agencies to consider the income of the family during the past 12 months and the family's current rate of income to determine which indicator more accurately reflects the family's status. However, persons from families with adult members who are unemployed shall be eligible based on income during the period of unemployment if the loss of income causes the current rate of income to be less than the State or local agency's income guidelines for Program eligibility.
(ii)
Definition of “Income”.
If the State agency uses the National School Lunch reduced-priced meal income guidelines, as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, it shall use the following definition of income: Income for the purposes of this part means gross cash income before deductions for income taxes, employees' social security taxes, insurance premiums, bonds, etc. Income includes the following—
(A) Monetary compensation for services, including wages, salary, commissions, or fees;
(B) Net income from farm and non-farm self-employment;
(C) Social Security benefits;
(D) Dividends or interest on savings or bonds, income from estates or trusts, or net rental income;
(E) Public assistance or welfare payments;
(F) Unemployment compensation;
(G) Government civilian employee or military retirement or pensions or veterans' payments;
(H) Private pensions or annuities;
(I) Alimony or child support payments;
(J) Regular contributions from persons not living in the household;
(K) Net royalties; and
(L) Other cash income. Other cash income includes, but is not limited to, cash amounts received or withdrawn from any source including savings, investments, trust accounts and other resources which are readily available to the family.
(iii)
Use of a State or local health care definition of “Income”.
If the State agency uses State or local free or reduced-price health care income guidelines, it will ensure that the definitions of income (see paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section), family (see § 246.2) and allowable exclusions from income (see paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section) are used uniformly to determine an applicant's income eligibility. This ensures that households with a gross income in excess of 185 percent of the Federal income guidelines (see paragraph (d)(1) of this section) are not eligible for Program benefits. The exception to this requirement is persons who are also income eligible under other programs (see paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section).
(iv)
Income exclusions.
(A) In determining income eligibility, the State agency may exclude from consideration as income any:
(
1
) Basic allowance for housing received by military services personnel residing off military installations or in privatized housing, whether on- or off-base; and
(
2
) Cost-of-living allowance provided under 37 U.S.C. 405, to a member of a uniformed service who is on duty outside the contiguous states of the United States.
(B) The value of inkind housing and other inkind benefits, shall be excluded from consideration as income in determining an applicant's eligibility for the program.
(C) Loans, not including amounts to which the applicant has constant or unlimited access.
(D) Payments or benefits provided under certain Federal programs or acts are excluded from consideration as income by legislative prohibition. The payments or benefits which must be excluded from consideration as income include, but are not limited to:
(
1
) Reimbursements from the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646, sec. 216, 42 U.S.C. 4636);
(
2
) Any payment to volunteers under Title I (VISTA and others) and Title II (RSVP, foster grandparents, and others) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-113, sec. 404(g), 42 U.S.C. 5044(g)) to the extent excluded by that Act;
(
3
) Payment to volunteers under section 8(b)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act (SCORE and ACE) (Pub. L. 95-510, sec. 101, 15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(D));
(
4
) Income derived from certain submarginal land of the United States which is held in trust for certain Indian tribes (Pub. L. 94-114, sec. 6, 25 U.S.C. 459e);
(
5
) Payments received under the Job Training Partnership Act (Pub. L. 97-300, sec. 142(b), 29 U.S.C. 1552(b));
(
6
) Income derived from the disposition of funds to the Grand River Band of Ottawa Indians (Pub. L. 94-540, sec. 6);
(
7
) Payments received under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act
(Pub. L. 100-241, sec. 15, 43 U.S.C. sec. 1626(c));
(
8
) The value of assistance to children or their families under the National School Lunch Act, as amended (Pub. L. 94-105, sec. 9(d), 42 U.S.C. sec. 1760(e)), the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (Pub. L. 89-642, sec. 11(b), 42 U.S.C. sec. 1780(b)), and the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 95-113, sec. 1301, 7 U.S.C. sec. 2017(b));
(
9
) Payments by the Indian Claims Commission to the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation or the Apache Tribe of the Mescalero Reservation (Pub. L. 95-433, sec. 2, 25 U.S.C. 609c-1);
(
10
) Payments to the Passamaquoddy Tribe and the Penobscot Nation or any of their members received pursuant to the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-420, sec. 6, 9(c), 25 U.S.C. 1725(i), 1728(c));
(
11
) Payments under the Low-income Home Energy Assistance Act, as amended (Pub. L. 99-125, sec. 504(c), 42 U.S.C. sec. 8624(f));
(
12
) Student financial assistance received from any program funded in whole or part under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, including the Pell Grant, Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant, State Student Incentive Grants, National Direct Student Loan, PLUS, College Work Study, and Byrd Honor Scholarship programs, which is used for costs described in section 472 (1) and (2) of that Act (Pub. L. 99-498, section 479B, 20 U.S.C. 1087uu). The specified costs set forth in section 472 (1) and (2) of the Higher Education Act are tuition and fees normally assessed a student carrying the same academic workload as determined by the institution, and including the costs for rental or purchase of any equipment, materials, or supplies required of all students in the same course of study; and an allowance for books, supplies, transportation, and miscellaneous personal expenses for a student attending the institution on at least a half-time basis, as determined by the institution. The specified costs set forth in section 472 (1) and (2) of the Act are those costs which are related to the costs of attendance at the educational institution and do not include room and board and dependent care expenses;
(
13
) Payments under the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, as amended by the Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Amendments of 1989 (Pub. L. 100-707, sec. 105(i), 42 U.S.C. sec. 5155(d));
(
14
) Effective July 1, 1991, payments received under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act, as amended by the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-392, sec. 501, 20 U.S.C. sec. 2466d);
(
15
) Payments pursuant to the Agent Orange Compensation Exclusion Act (Pub. L. 101-201, sec. 1);
(
16
) Payments received for Wartime Relocation of Civilians under the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-383, sec. 105(f)(2), 50 App. U.S.C. sec. 1989b-4(f)(2));
(
17
) Value of any child care payments made under section 402(g)(1)(E) of the Social Security Act, as amended by the Family Support Act (Pub. L. 100-485, sec. 301, 42 U.S.C. sec. 602 (g)(1)(E));
(
18
) Value of any “at-risk” block grant child care payments made under section 5081 of Pub. L. 101-508, which amended section 402(i) of the Social Security Act;
(
19
) Value of any child care provided or paid for under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act, as amended (Pub. L. 102-586, Sec. 8(b)), 42 U.S.C. 9858q);
(
20
) Mandatory salary reduction amount for military service personnel which is used to fund the Veteran's Educational Assistance Act of 1984 (GI Bill), as amended (Pub. L. 99-576, sec. 303(a)(1), 38 U.S.C. sec. 1411 (b));
(
21
) Payments received under the Old Age Assistance Claims Settlement Act, except for per capita shares in excess of $2,000 (Pub. L. 98-500, sec. 8, 25 U.S.C. sec. 2307);
(
22
) Payments received under the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act, unless the income of the family equals or exceeds 80 percent of the median income of the area (Pub. L. 101-625, sec. 522(i)(4), 42 U.S.C. sec. 1437f nt);
(
23
) Payments received under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, unless the income of the family increases at any time to not
less than 50 percent of the median income of the area (Pub. L. 100-242, sec. 126(c)(5)(A), 25 U.S.C. sec. 2307);
(
24
) Payments received under the Sac and Fox Indian claims agreement (Pub. L. 94-189, sec. 6);
(
25
) Payments received under the Judgment Award Authorization Act, as amended (Pub. L. 97-458, sec. 4, 25 U.S.C. sec. 1407 and Pub. L. 98-64, sec. 2(b), 25 U.S.C. sec. 117b(b));
(
26
) Payments for the relocation assistance of members of Navajo and Hopi Tribes (Pub. L. 93-531, sec. 22, 22 U.S.C. sec. 640d-21);
(
27
) Payments to the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewas, Arizona (Pub. L. 97-403, sec. 9);
(
28
) Payments to the Blackfeet, Grosventre, and Assiniboine tribes (Montana) and the Papago (Arizona) (Pub. L. 97-408, sec. 8(d));
(
29
) Payments to the Assiniboine Tribe of the Fort Belknap Indian community and the Assiniboine Tribe of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation (Montana) (Pub. L. 98-124, sec. 5);
(
30
) Payments to the Red Lake Band of Chippewas (Pub. L. 98-123, sec. 3);
(
31
) Payments received under the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan Distribution of Judgment Funds Act (Pub. L. 99-346, sec. 6(b)(2));
(
32
) Payments to the Chippewas of Mississippi (Pub. L. 99-377, sec. 4(b));
(
33
) Payments received by members of the Armed Forces and their families under the Family Supplemental Subsistence Allowance from the Department of Defense (Pub. L. 109-163, sec. 608); and
(
34
) Payments received by property owners under the National Flood Insurance Program (Pub. L. 109-64).
(
35
) Combat pay received by the household member under Chapter 5 of Title 37 or as otherwise designated by the Secretary.
(v)
Are applicants required to document income eligibility?
(A)
Adjuctively/automatically income eligible applicants.
The State or local agency must require applicants determined to be adjunctively or automatically income eligible to document their eligibility for the program that makes them income eligible as set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section.
(B)
Other applicants.
The State or local agency must require all other applicants to provide documentation of family income at certification.
(C)
Exceptions.
The income documentation requirement does not apply to an individual for whom the necessary documentation is not available or an individual such as a homeless woman or child for whom the agency determines the income documentation requirement would present an unreasonable barrier to participation. Examples of individuals for whom the necessary documentation is not available include those with no income or no proof of income (such as an applicant or applicant's parent who is a migrant farmworker or other individual who works for cash). These are the only exceptions that may be used. When using these exceptions, the State or local agency must require the applicant to sign a statement specifying why he/she cannot provide documentation of income. Such a statement is not required when there is no income.
(D)
Verification.
The State or local agency may require verification of information it determines necessary to confirm income eligibility for Program benefits.
(vi)
Adjunct or automatic income eligibility.
(A) The State agency shall accept as income-eligible for the Program any applicant who documents that he/she is:
(
1
) Certified as fully eligible to receive SNAP benefits under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, or certified as fully eligible, or presumptively eligible pending completion of the eligibility determination process, to receive Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) under Part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act or Medical Assistance (i.e., Medicaid) under Title XIX of the Social Security Act; or
(
2
) A member of a family that is certified eligible to receive assistance under TANF, or a member of a family in which a pregnant woman or an infant is certified eligible to receive assistance under Medicaid.
(B) The State agency may accept, as evidence of income within Program guidelines, documentation of the applicant's participation in State-administered programs not specified in this
paragraph that routinely require documentation of income, provided that those programs have income eligibility guidelines at or below the State agency's Program income guidelines.
(C) Persons who are adjunctively income eligible, as set forth in paragraphs (d)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, shall not be subject to the income limits established under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(vii)
Income eligibility of pregnant women.
A pregnant woman who is ineligible for participation in the program because she does not meet income guidelines shall be considered to have satisfied the income guidelines if the guidelines would be met by increasing the number of individuals in her family by the number of embryos or fetuses in utero. The same increased family size may also be used for any of the pregnant woman's categorically eligible family members. The State agency shall allow applicants to waive this increase in family size.
(viii)
Income eligibility of Indian applicants.
If an Indian State agency (or a non-Indian State agency which acts on behalf of a local agency operated by an Indian organization or the Indian Health Service) submits census data or other reliable documentation demonstrating to FNS that the majority of the Indian households in a local agency's service area have incomes at or below the State agency's income eligibility guidelines, FNS may authorize the State agency to approve the use of an income certification system under which the local Indian agency shall inform each Indian applicant household of the maximum family income allowed for that applicant's family size. The local agency shall ensure that the applicant, or the applicant's parent or caretaker, signs a statement that the applicant's family income does not exceed the maximum. The local agency may verify the income eligibility of any Indian applicant.
(ix)
Are instream migrant farmworkers and their family members required to document income eligibility?
Certain instream migrant farmworkers and their family members with expired Verification of Certification cards shall be declared to satisfy the State agency's income standard and income documentation requirements. Such cases include when income of that instream migrant farmworker is determined at least once every 12 months. Such families shall satisfy the income criteria in any State for any subsequent certification while the migrant is instream during the 12-month period following the determination. The determination can occur either in the migrant's home base area before the migrant has entered the stream for a particular agricultural season, or in an instream area during the agricultural season.
(e)
Nutritional risk.
To be certified as eligible for the Program, applicants who meet the Program's eligibility standards specified in paragraph (c) of this section must be determined to be at nutritional risk. A competent professional authority on the staff of the local agency shall determine if a person is at nutritional risk through a medical and/or nutritional assessment. This determination may be based on referral data submitted by a competent professional authority not on the staff of the local agency. Nutritional risk data shall be documented in the participant's file and shall be used to assess an applicant's nutritional status and risk; tailor the food package to address nutritional needs; design appropriate nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support; and make referrals to health and social services for follow-up, as necessary and appropriate.
Except as stated in paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section, at least one determination of nutritional risk must be documented at the time of certification in order for an income eligible applicant to receive WIC benefits.
(1)
Determination of nutritional risk.
(i)
Required nutritional risk data.
(A) At a minimum, height or length and weight measurements shall be performed and/or documented in the applicant's file at the time of certification. In addition, a hematological test for anemia such as a hemoglobin, hematocrit, or free erythrocyte protoporphyrin test shall be performed and/or documented at certification for applicants with no other nutritional risk factor present. For applicants with a qualifying nutritional risk factor present at certification, such test shall be performed
and/or documented within 90 days of the date of certification. However, for breastfeeding women 6-12 months postpartum, such hematological tests are not required if a test was performed after the termination of their pregnancy. In addition, such hematological tests are not required, but are permitted, for infants under nine months of age. All infants nine months of age and older (who have not already had a hematological test performed or obtained, between the ages of six and nine months), shall have a hematological test performed between nine and twelve months of age or obtained from referral sources. This hematological test does not have to occur within 90 days of the date of certification. Only one test is required for children between 12 and 24 months of age, and this test should be done 6 months after the infant test, if possible. At the State or local agency's discretion, the hematological test is not required for children ages two and older who were determined to be within the normal range at their last certification. However, the hematological test shall be performed on such children at least once every 12 months. Hematological test data submitted by a competent professional authority not on the staff of the local agency may be used to establish nutritional risk. However, such referral hematological data must:
(
1
) Be reflective of a woman applicant's category, meaning the test must have been taken for pregnant women during pregnancy and for postpartum or breastfeeding women following termination of pregnancy;
(
2
) Conform to the anemia screening schedule for infants and children as outlined in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(
3
) Conform to recordkeeping requirements as outlined in paragraph (i)(4) of this section.
(B) Height or length and weight measurements and, with the exceptions specified in paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section, hematological tests, shall be obtained for all participants, including those who are determined at nutritional risk based solely on the established nutritional risk status of another person, as provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(iv) and (e)(1)(v) of this section.
(ii)
Timing of nutritional risk data.
(A)
Weight and height or length.
Weight and height or length shall be measured not more than 60 days prior to certification for program participation.
(B)
Hematological test for anemia.
(
1
) For pregnant, breastfeeding, and postpartum women, and child applicants, the hematological test for anemia shall be performed or obtained from referral sources at the time of certification or within 90 days of the date of certification. The hematological test for anemia may be deferred for up to 90 days from the time of certification for applicants who have at least one qualifying nutritional risk factor present at the time of certification. If no qualifying risk factor is identified, a hematological test for anemia must be performed or obtained from referral sources (with the exception of presumptively eligible pregnant women).
(
2
) Infants nine months of age and older (who have not already had a hematological test performed, between six and nine months of age, by a competent professional authority or obtained from referral sources), shall between nine and twelve months of age have a hematological test performed or obtained from referral sources. Such a test may be performed more than 90 days after the date of certification.
(
3
) For pregnant women, the hematological test for anemia shall be performed during their pregnancy. For persons certified as postpartum or breastfeeding women, the hematological test for anemia shall be performed after the termination of their pregnancy. For breastfeeding women who are 6-12 months postpartum, no additional blood test is necessary if a test was performed after the termination of their pregnancy. The participant or parent/guardian shall be informed of the test results when there is a finding of anemia, and notations reflecting the outcome of the tests shall be made in the participant's file. Nutrition education, food package tailoring, and referral services shall be provided to the participant or parent/guardian, as necessary and appropriate.
(iii)
Breastfeeding dyads.
A breastfeeding woman may be determined to be a nutritional risk if her breastfed infant has been determined to be a nutritional risk. A breastfed infant can be certified based on the mother's medical and/or nutritional assessment. A breastfeeding mother and her infant shall be placed in the highest priority level for which either is qualified.
(iv)
Infants born to WIC mothers or women who were eligible to participate in WIC.
An infant under six months of age may be determined to be at nutritional risk if the infant's mother was a Program participant during pregnancy or of medical records document that the woman was at nutritional risk during pregnancy because of detrimental or abnormal nutritional conditions detectable by biochemical or anthropometric measurements or other documented nutritionally related medical conditions.
(v)
Presumptive eligibility for pregnant women.
A pregnant woman who meets the income eligibility standards may be considered presumptively eligible to participate in the program, and may be certified immediately without an evaluation of nutritional risk for a period up to 60 days. A nutritional risk evaluation of such woman shall be completed not later than 60 days after the woman is certified for participation. A hematological test for anemia is not required to be performed within the 60-day period, but rather within 90 days, unless the nutritional risk evaluation performed does not identify a qualifying risk factor. If no qualifying risk factor is identified, a hematological test for anemia must be performed or obtained from referral sources before the 60-day period elapses. Under the subsequent determination process, if the woman does not meet any qualifying nutritional risk criteria, including anemia criteria, the woman shall be determined ineligible and may not participate in the program for the reference pregnancy after the date of the determination. Said applicant may subsequently reapply for program benefits and if found to be both income eligible and at qualifying nutritional risk may participate in the program. Persons found ineligible to participate in the program under this paragraph shall be advised in writing of the ineligibility, of the reasons for the ineligibility, and of the right to a fair hearing. The reasons for the ineligibility shall be properly documented and shall be retained on file at the local agency. In addition, if the nutritional risk evaluation is not completed within the 60-day timeframe, the woman shall be determined ineligible.
(vi)
Regression.
A WIC participant who is reapplying for WIC benefits may be considered to be at nutritional risk in the next certification period if the competent professional authority determines that the applicant's nutritional status may regress to the nutritional risk condition(s) certified for in the previous certification period without supplemental foods and/or WIC nutrition services, and if the nutritional risk condition(s) certified for in the previous certification period is/are appropriate to the category of the participant in the subsequent certification based on regression. However, such applicants shall not be considered at nutritional risk based on the possibility of regression for consecutive certification periods. Applicants who are certified based on the possibility of regression should be placed either in the same priority for which they were certified in the previous certification period; a priority level lower than the priority level assigned in the previous certification period, consistent with § 246.7(e)(4); or in Priority VII, if the State agency is using that priority level.
(2)
Nutritional risk criteria.
The following are examples of nutritional risk conditions which may be used as a basis for certification. These examples include—
(i) Detrimental or abnormal nutritional conditions detectable by biochemical or anthropometric measurements, such as anemia, underweight, overweight, abnormal patterns of weight gain in a pregnant woman, low birth weight in an infant, or stunting in an infant or child;
(ii) Other documented nutritionally related medical conditions, such as clinical signs of nutritional deficiencies, metabolic disorders, pre-eclampsia in pregnant women, failure to
thrive in an infant, chronic infections in any person, alcohol or drug abuse or mental retardation in women, lead poisoning, history of high risk pregnancies or factors associated with high risk pregnancies (such as smoking; conception before 16 months postpartum; history of low birth weight, premature births, or neonatal loss; adolescent pregnancy; or current multiple pregnancy) in pregnant women, or congenital malformations in infants or children, or infants born of women with alcohol or drug abuse histories or mental retardation.
(iii) Dietary deficiencies that impair or endanger health, such as inadequate dietary patterns assessed by a 24-hour dietary recall, dietary history, or food frequency checklist; and
(iv) Conditions that predispose persons to inadequate nutritional patterns or nutritionally related medical conditions, such as homelessness or migrancy.
(3)
Nutritional risk priorities.
In determining nutritional risk, the State agency shall develop and include in its State Plan, specific risk conditions by priority level with indices for identifying these conditions. The criteria shall be used statewide and in accordance with the priority system as set forth in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(4)
Nutritional risk priority system.
The competent professional authority shall fill vacancies which occur after a local agency has reached its maximum participation level by applying the following participant priority system to persons on the local agency's waiting list. Priorities I through VI shall be utilized in all States. The State agency may, at its discretion, expand the priority system to include Priority VII. The State agency may set income or other sub-priority levels within any of these seven priority levels. The State agency may expand Priority III, IV, or V to include high-risk postpartum women. The State agency may place pregnant or breastfeeding women and infants who are at nutritional risk solely because of homelessness or migrancy in Priority IV; children who are at nutritional risk solely because of homelessness or migrancy in Priority V; and postpartum women who are at nutritional risk solely because of homelessness or migrancy in Priority VI,
OR,
the State agency may place pregnant, breastfeeding or postpartum women, infants, and children who are at nutritional risk solely because of homelessness or migrancy in Priority VII.
(i)
Priority I.
Pregnant women, breastfeeding women and infants at nutritional risk as demonstrated by hematological or anthropometric measurements, or other documented nutritionally related medical conditions which demonstrate the need for supplemental foods.
(ii)
Priority II.
Except those infants who qualify for Priority I, infant up to six months of age of Program participants who participated during pregnancy, and infants up to six months of age born of women who were not Program participants during pregnancy but whose medical records document that they were at nutritional risk during pregnancy due to nutritional conditions detectable by biochemical or anthropometric measurements or other documented nutritionally related medical conditions which demonstrated the person's need for supplemental foods.
(iii)
Priority III.
Children at nutritional risk as demonstrated by hematological or anthropometric measurements or other documented medical conditions which demonstrate the child's need for supplemental foods.
(iv)
Priority IV.
Pregnant women, breastfeeding women, and infants at nutritional risk because of an inadequate dietary pattern.
(v)
Priority V.
Children at nutritional risk because of an inadequate dietary pattern.
(vi)
Priority VI.
Postpartum women at nutritional risk.
(vii)
Priority VII.
Individuals certified for WIC solely due to homelessness or migrancy and, at State agency option, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e)(1)(vi) of this section, previously certified participants who might regress in nutritional status without continued provision of supplemental foods.
(f)
Processing standards.
The local agencies shall process applicants within the following timeframes:
(1)
Waiting lists.
When the local agency is serving its maximum caseload,
the local agency shall maintain a waiting list of individuals who visit the local agency to express interest in receiving Program benefits and who are likely to be served. However, in no case shall an applicant who requests placement on the waiting list be denied inclusion. State agencies may establish a policy which permits or requires local agencies to accept telephone requests for placement on the waiting list. The waiting list shall include the person's name, address or phone number, status (e.g., pregnant, breastfeeding, age of applicant), and the date he or she was placed on the waiting list. Individuals shall be notified of their placement on a waiting list within 20 days after they visit the local agency during clinic office hours to request Program benefits. For those State agencies establishing procedures to accept telephone requests for placement on a waiting list, individuals shall be notified of their placement on a waiting list within 20 days after contacting the local agency by phone. The competent professional authority shall apply the participant priority system as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section to the waiting list to ensure that the highest priority persons become Program participants first when caseload slots become available.
(2)
Timeframes for processing applicants.
(i) When the local agency is not serving its maximum caseload, the local agency shall accept applications, make eligibility determinations, notify the applicants of the decisions made and, if the applicants are to be enrolled, issue food, cash-value vouchers or food instruments. All of these actions shall be accomplished within the timeframes set forth below.
(ii) The processing timeframes shall begin when the individual visits the local agency during clinic office hours to make an oral or written request for Program benefits. To ensure that accurate records are kept of the date of such requests, the local agency shall, at the time of each request, record the applicant's name, address and the date. The remainder of the information necessary to determine eligibility shall be obtained by the time of certification. Medical data taken prior to certification may be used as provided in paragraph (g)(4) of this section.
(iii) The local agency shall act on applications within the following timeframes:
(A) Special nutritional risk applicants shall be notified of their eligibility or ineligibility within 10 days of the date of the first request for Program benefits; except that State agencies may provide an extension of the notification period to a maximum of 15 days for those local agencies which make written request, including a justification of the need for an extension. The State agency shall establish criteria for identifying categories of persons at special nutritional risk who require expedited services. At a minimum, however, these categories shall include pregnant women eligible as Priority I participants, and migrant farmworkers and their family members who soon plan to leave the jurisdiction of the local agency.
(B) All other applicants shall be notified of their eligibility or ineligibility within 20 days of the date of the first request for Program benefits.
(iv) Each local agency using a retail purchase system shall issue a food instrument(s) and if applicable cash-value voucher(s) to the participant at the same time as notification of certification. Such food instrument(s) and cash-value vouchers shall provide benefits for the current month or the remaining portion thereof and shall be redeemable immediately upon receipt by the participant. Local agencies may mail the initial food instrument(s) and if applicable cash-value vouchers with the notification of certification to those participants who meet the criteria for the receipt of food instruments through the mail, as provided in § 246.12(r)(4).
(v) Each local agency with a direct distribution or home delivery system shall issue the supplemental foods to the participant within 10 days of issuing the notification of certification.
(g)
Certification periods.
(1) Program benefits will be based upon certifications established in accordance with the following timeframes:
A/an:
Will be certified:
(i) Pregnant woman
For the duration of her pregnancy, and up to the last day of the month in which the infant becomes six weeks old or the pregnancy ends (for example, if the infant is born June 4, six weeks after birth would be July 16, and certification would end July 31).
(ii) Postpartum woman
Up to the last day of the sixth month after the baby is born or the pregnancy ends (postpartum).
(iii) Breastfeeding woman
Approximately every six months. The State agency may permit its local agencies to certify a breastfeeding woman up to the last day of the month in which her infant turns 1 year old, or until the woman ceases breastfeeding, whichever occurs first.
(iv) Infant
Approximately every six months. The State agency may permit its local agencies to certify an infant under six months of age up to the last day of the month in which the infant turns 1 year old, provided the quality and accessibility of health care services are not diminished.
(v) Child
Approximately every six months ending with the last day of the month in which a child reaches his/her fifth birthday. The State agency may permit its local agencies to certify a child for a period of up to one year, provided the local agency ensures that the child receives the required health and nutrition assessments, as set forth in § 246.11(e)(3).
(2) The State agency may authorize local agencies under its jurisdiction to establish shorter certification periods than outlined in paragraph (g)(1) of this section on a case-by-case basis. If the State agency exercises this option, it shall issue guidance for use by local agencies in establishing the shorter periods.
(3) In cases where there is difficulty in appointment scheduling for persons referenced in paragraphs (g)(1) (iii), (iv) and (v) of this section, the certification period may be shortened or extended by a period not to exceed 30 days.
(h)
Mandatory and optional mid-certification actions.
Mid-certification actions are either mandatory or optional as follows:
(1)
Mandatory reassessment of income eligibility mid-certification.
(i) The local agency must reassess a participant's income eligibility during the current certification period if the local agency receives information indicating that the participant's household income has changed. However, such assessments are not required in cases where sufficient time does not exist to effect the change. Sufficient time means 90 days or less before the expiration of the certification period.
(ii)
Mandatory disqualification mid-certification for income ineligibility.
The local agency must disqualify a participant and any other household members currently receiving WIC benefits who are determined ineligible based on the mid-certification income reassessment. However, adjunctively-eligible WIC participants (as defined in paragraphs (d)(2)(vi)(A) or (d)(2)(vi)(B) of this section) may not be disqualified from the WIC Program solely because they, or certain family members, no longer participate in one of the other specified programs. The State agency will ensure that such participants and other household members currently receiving WIC benefits are disqualified during a certification period only after their income eligibility has been reassessed based on the income screening procedures used for applicants who are not adjunctively eligible.
(2)
Mandatory sanctions or other actions for participant violations.
The local agency must impose disqualifications, or take other actions in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 246.12(u), in response to participant violations including, but not limited to, the violations listed in the definition of
Participant violation
in § 246.2.
(3)
Optional mid-certification actions.
A participant may be disqualified during a certification period for the following reasons:
(i) A State agency may allow local agencies to disqualify a participant for failure to obtain food instruments, cash-value vouchers or supplemental foods for several consecutive months. As specified by the State agency, proof of such failure includes failure to pick up supplemental foods, cash-value vouchers or food instruments, nonreceipt of food instruments or cash-value vouchers (when mailed instruments or vouchers are returned), or failure to have an electronic benefit
transfer card revalidated for purchase of supplemental foods; or
(ii) If a State agency experiences funding shortages, it may be necessary to discontinue Program benefits to some certified participants. The State agency must explore alternatives (such as elimination of new certifications) before taking such action. In discontinuing benefits, the State agency will affect the least possible number of participants and those whose nutritional and health status would be least impaired by the action. When a State agency elects to discontinue benefits due to insufficient funds, it will not enroll new participants during that period. The State may discontinue benefits by:
(A) Disqualifying a group of participants; and/or,
(B) Withholding benefits from a group with the expectation of providing benefits again when funds are available.
(i)
Certification forms.
All certification data for each person certified shall be recorded on a form (or forms) which are provided by the State agency. The information on the forms shall include—
(1) Name and address;
(2) Date of initial visit to apply for participation;
(3) An indication of whether the applicant was physically present at certification and, if not, the reason why an exception was granted or a copy of the document(s) in the file which explains the reason for the exception;
(4) A description of the document(s) used to determine residency and identity or a copy of the document(s) used or the applicant's written statement when no documentation exists;
(5) Information regarding income eligibility for the Program as specified in paragraph (d) of this section as follows:
(i) A description of the document(s) used to determine income eligibility or a copy of the document(s) in the file;
(ii) An indication that no documentation is available and the reason(s) why or a copy of the applicant's written statement explaining such circumstances; or
(iii) An indication that the applicant has no income.
(6) The date of certification and the date nutritional risk data were taken if different from the date of certification;
(7) Height or length, weight, and hematological test results;
(8) The specific nutritional risk conditions which established eligibility for the supplemental foods. Documentation should include health history when appropriate to the nutritional risk condition, with the applicant's or applicant's parent's or caretaker's consent;
(9) The signature and title of the competent professional authority making the nutritional risk determination, and, if different, the signature and title of the administrative person responsible for determining income eligibility under the Program; and
(10) A statement of the rights and obligations under the Program. The statement must contain a signature space, and must be read by or to the applicant, parent, or caretaker. It must contain the following language or alternate language as approved by FNS (see § 246.4(a)(11)(i)), and be signed by the applicant, parent, or caretaker after the statement is read:
I have been advised of my rights and obligations under the Program. I certify that the information I have provided for my eligibility determination is correct, to the best of my knowledge. This certification form is being submitted in connection with the receipt of Federal assistance. Program officials may verify information on this form. I understand that intentionally making a false or misleading statement or intentionally misrepresenting, concealing, or withholding facts may result in paying the State agency, in cash, the value of the food benefits improperly issued to me and may subject me to civil or criminal prosecution under State and Federal law.
(11) If the State agency exercises the authority to use and disclose confidential applicant and participant information for non-WIC purposes pursuant to § 246.26(d)(2), a statement that:
(i) Notifies applicants that the chief State health officer (or the governing authority, in the case of an Indian State agency) may authorize the use and disclosure of information about their participation in the WIC Program for non-WIC purposes;
(ii) Must indicate that such information will be used by State and local
WIC agencies and public organizations only in the administration of their programs that serve persons eligible for the WIC Program; and,
(iii) Will be added to the statement required under paragraph (i)(10) of this section. This statement must also indicate that such information can be used by the recipient organizations only for the following:
(A) To determine the eligibility of WIC applicants and participants for programs administered by such organizations;
(B) To conduct outreach for such programs;
(C) To enhance the health, education, or well-being of WIC applicants and participants currently enrolled in those programs;
(D) To streamline administrative procedures in order to minimize burdens on participants and staff; and,
(E) To assess and evaluate a State's health system in terms of responsiveness to participants' health care needs and health care outcomes.
(j)
Notification of participant rights and responsibilities.
In order to inform applicants and participants or their parents or caretakers of Program rights and responsibilities, the following information shall be provided. Where a significant number or proportion of the population eligible to be served needs the information in a language other than English, reasonable steps shall be taken to provide the information in appropriate languages to such persons, considering the scope of the Program and the size and concentration of such population.
(1) During the certification procedure, every Program applicant, parent or caretaker shall be informed of the illegality of dual participation.
(2) At the time of certification, each Program participant, parent or caretaker must read, or have read to him or her, the statement provided in paragraph (i)(10) of this section (or an alternate statement as approved by FNS). In addition, the following sentences (or alternate sentences as approved by FNS) must be read:
(i) “Standards for eligibility and participation in the WIC Program are the same for everyone, regardless of race, color, national origin, age, handicap, or sex.”
(ii) “You may appeal any decision made by the local agency regarding your eligibility for the Program.”
(iii) “The local agency will make health services, nutrition education and breastfeeding support available to you, and you are encouraged to participate in these services.”
(3) If the State agency implements the policy of disqualifying a participant for not picking up supplemental foods, cash-value vouchers or food instruments in accordance with paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section, it shall provide notice of this policy and of the importance of regularly picking up cash-value vouchers, food instruments or supplemental foods to each participant, parent or caretaker at the time of each certification.
(4) At least during the initial certification visit, each participant, parent or caretaker shall receive an explanation of how the local food delivery system operates and shall be advised of the types of health services available, where they are located, how they may be obtained and why they may be useful.
(5) Persons found ineligible for the Program during a certification visit shall be advised in writing of the ineligibility, of the reasons for the ineligibility, and of the right to a fair hearing. The reasons for ineligibility shall be properly documented and shall be retained on file at the local agency.
(6) A person who is about to be suspended or disqualified from program participation at any time during the certification period shall be advised in writing not less than 15 days before the suspension or disqualification. Such notification shall include the reasons for this action, and the participant's right to a fair hearing. Further, such notification need not be provided to persons who will be disqualified for not picking up cash-value vouchers, supplemental foods or food instruments in accordance with paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section.
(7) When a State or local agency pursues collection of a claim pursuant to § 246.23(c) against an individual who has been improperly issued benefits, the person shall be advised in writing of
the reason(s) for the claim, the value of the improperly issued benefits which must be repaid, and of the right to a fair hearing.
(8) Each participant, parent or caretaker shall be notified not less than 15 days before the expiration of each certification period that certification for the Program is about to expire.
(9) If a State agency must suspend or terminate benefits to any participant during the participant's certification period due to a shortage of funds for the Program, it shall issue a notice to such participant in advance, as stipulated in paragraph (j)(6) of this section.
(10) During WIC certification, every Program applicant, parent, or caretaker shall be informed that selling or offering to sell WIC benefits, cash-value vouchers, paper food instruments, EBT cards, supplemental foods, or breast pumps in person, in print, or on-line is a participant violation.
(k)
Transfer of certification.
(1) Each State agency shall ensure issuance of a Verification of Certification card to every participant who is a member of a family in which there is a migrant farmworker or any other participant who is likely to be relocating during the certification period. Certifying local agencies shall ensure that Verification of Certification cards are fully completed.
(2) The State agency shall require the receiving local agency to accept Verification of Certification cards from participants, including participants who are migrant farmworkers or members of their families, who have been participating in the Program in another local agency within or outside of the jurisdiction of the State agency. A person with a valid Verification of Certification card shall not be denied participation in the receiving State because the person does not meet that State's particular eligibility criteria.
(3) The Verification of Certification card is valid until the certification period expires, and shall be accepted as proof of eligibility for Program benefits. If the receiving local agency has waiting lists for participation, the transferring participant shall be placed on the list ahead of all waiting applicants.
(4) The Verification of Certification card shall include the name of the participant, the date the certification was performed, the date income eligibility was last determined, the nutritional risk condition of the participant, the date the certification period expires, the signature and printed or typed name of the certifying local agency official, the name and address of the certifying local agency and an identification number or some other means of accountability. The Verification of Certification card shall be uniform throughout the jurisdiction of the State agency.
(l)
Dual participation.
The State agency is responsible for the following:
(1) In conjunction with WIC local agencies, the prevention and identification of dual participation within each local agency and between local agencies under the State agency's jurisdiction, including actions to identify suspected instances of dual participation at least semiannually. The State or local agency must take follow-up action within 120 days of detecting instances of suspected dual participation;
(2) In areas where a local agency serves the same population as an Indian State agency or a CSFP agency, and in areas where geographical or other factors make it likely that participants travel regularly between contiguous local service areas located across State agency borders, entering into an agreement with the other agency for the detection and prevention of dual participation. The agreement must be made in writing and included in the State Plan;
(3) Immediate termination from participation in one of the programs or clinics for participants found in violation due to dual participation; and
(4) In cases of dual participation resulting from intentional misrepresentation, the collection of improperly issued benefits in accordance with § 246.23(c)(1) and disqualification from both programs in accordance with § 246.12(u)(2).
(m)
Certification of persons in homeless facilities and institutions.
(1) Pregnant, breastfeeding, and postpartum women,
infants or children who meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, and who reside in a homeless facility, shall be considered eligible for the Program and shall be treated equally with all other eligible applicants at the local agency where they apply for WIC benefits, Provided that: the State or local agency has taken reasonable steps to:
(i) Establish, to the extent practicable, that the homeless facility meets the following conditions with respect to resident WIC participants:
(A) The homeless facility does not accrue financial or in-kind benefit from a person's participation in the Program, e.g., by reducing its expenditures for food service because its residents are receiving WIC foods;
(B) Foods provided by the WIC Program are not subsumed into a communal food service, but are available exclusively to the WIC participant for whom they were issued;
(C) The homeless facility places no constraints on the ability of the participant to partake of the supplemental foods, nutrition education and breastfeeding support available under the Program;
(ii) Contact the homeless facility periodically to ensure continued compliance with these conditions; and
(iii) Request the homeless facility to notify the State or local agency if it ceases to meet any of these conditions.
(2) The State agency may authorize or require local agencies to make the Program available to applicants who meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, but who reside in institutions which meet the conditions of paragraphs (n)(1)(i)(A)-(C) of this section with respect to resident WIC participants.
(3) The State or local agency shall attempt to establish to the best of its ability,whether a homeless facility or institution complies with the conditions of paragraphs (n)(1)(i) (A)-(C) of this section with respect to WIC participants. If caseload slots are available, full certification periods shall be provided to the following:
(i) Participants who are residents of a homeless facility or institution which has been found to be in compliance with the conditions of paragraph (n)(1)(i)(A)-(C) of this section;
(ii) Participants who are residents of a homeless facility or institution whose compliance with the conditions of paragraphs (n)(1)(i)(A)-(C) of this section has not yet been established; and
(iii) Participants for whom no other shelter alternative is available in the local agency's service delivery area.
(4) If a homeless facility or institution has been determined to be noncompliant during the course of a participant's initial certification period, participants applying for continued benefits may be certified again, but the State agency shall discontinue issuance of WIC foods, except infant formula, to the participant in such accommodation until the accommodation's compliance is achieved or alternative shelter arrangements are made. If certified, such participants shall continue to be eligible to receive all other WIC benefits, such as nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, and health care referral services.
(5) The State agency shall continue to the end of their certification periods the participation of residents of a homeless facility or institution which ceases to comply with the conditions of paragraphs (n)(1)(i)(A)-(C) of this section.
(6) As soon as the State or local agency determines that a homeless facility/institution does not meet the conditions of paragraphs (n)(1)(i) (A)-(C) of this section, it shall refer all participants using such accommodation to any other accommodations in the area which meet these conditions.
(n)
Drug and other harmful substance abuse screening.
When a State agency determines that screening is necessary to fulfill the referral requirements in this part, the State agency must require screening for the use of drugs and other harmful substances. When such screening is required, it shall:
(1) Be limited to the extent the State agency deems necessary to fulfill the referral requirement of § 246.4(a)(8) of this part and the drug and other harmful substance abuse information requirement of § 246.11(a)(3) of this part; and
(2) Be integrated into certification process as part of the medical or nutritional assessment.
(o)
Are applicants required to be physically present at certification?
—(1)
In general.
The State or local agency must require all applicants to be physically present at each WIC certification.
(2)
Exceptions
—(i)
Disabilities.
The State or local agency must grant an exception to applicants who are qualified individuals with disabilities and are unable to be physically present at the WIC clinic because of their disabilities or applicants whose parents or caretakers are individuals with disabilities that meet this standard. Examples of such situations include:
(A) A medical condition that necessitates the use of medical equipment that is not easily transportable;
(B) A medical condition that requires confinement to bed rest; and
(C) A serious illness that may be exacerbated by coming in to the WIC clinic.
(ii)
Receiving ongoing health care.
The State agency may exempt from the physical presence requirement, if being physically present would pose an unreasonable barrier, an infant or child who was present at his/her initial WIC certification and is receiving ongoing health care.
(iii)
Working parents or caretakers.
The State agency may exempt from the physical presence requirement an infant or child who was present at his/her initial WIC certification
and
was present at a WIC certification or recertification determination within the 1-year period ending on the date of the most recent certification or recertification determination
and
is under the care of one or more working parents or one or more primary working caretakers whose working status presents a barrier to bringing the infant or child in to the WIC clinic.
(iv)
Infants under 8 weeks of age.
The State agency may exempt from the physical presence requirement an infant under eight (8) weeks of age who cannot be present at certification for a reason determined appropriate by the local agency, and for whom all necessary certification information is provided.
(p)
Certification of qualified aliens.
In those cases where a person sponsors a qualified alien, (as the term is defined in the Immigration and Nationality Laws (8 U.S.C.1101
et seq.
)), i.e., signs an affidavit of support, the sponsor's income, including the income of the sponsor's spouse, shall not be counted in determining the income eligibility of the qualified alien except when the alien is a member of the sponsor's family or economic unit. Sponsors of qualified aliens are not required to reimburse the State or local agency or the Federal government for WIC Program benefits provided to sponsored aliens. Further, qualified aliens are eligible for the WIC Program without regard to the length of time in the qualifying status.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 246.7, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 246.8
Nondiscrimination.
(a)
Civil rights requirements.
The State agency shall comply with the requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Department of Agriculture regulations on nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a and 15b), and FNS instructions to ensure that no person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, age, sex or handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under the Program. Compliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and regulations and instructions issued thereunder shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Notification to the public of the nondiscrimination policy and complaint rights of participants and potentially eligible persons;
(2) Review and monitoring activity to ensure Program compliance with the nondiscrimination laws and regulations;
(3) Collection and reporting of racial and ethnic participation data as required by title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination in federally assisted programs on the basis of race, color, or national origin; and
(4) Establishment of grievance procedures for handling complaints based on sex and handicap.
(b)
Complaints.
Persons seeking to file discrimination complaints should write to USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication and Compliance, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-9410, or call (800) 795-3272 (voice) or (202) 720-6382 (TTY). All complaints received by State or local agencies which allege discrimination based on race, color, national origin, or age shall be referred to the Secretary of Agriculture or Director, Office of Equal Opportunity. A State or local agency may process complaints which allege discrimination based on sex or handicap if grievance procedures are in place.
(c)
Non-English materials.
Where a significant number or proportion of the population eligible to be served needs service or information in a language other than English in order effectively to be informed of or to participate in the Program, the State agency shall take reasonable steps considering the size and concentration of such population, to provide information in appropriate languages to such persons. This requirement applies with regard to required Program information except certification forms which are used only by local agency staff. The State agency shall also ensure that all rights and responsibilities listed on the certification form are read to these applicants in the appropriate language.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 73 FR 11312, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 246.9
Fair hearing procedures for participants.
(a)
Availability of hearings.
The State agency shall provide a hearing procedure through which any individual may appeal a State or local agency action which results in a claim against the individual for repayment of the cash value of improperly issued benefits or results in the individual's denial of participation or disqualification from the Program.
(b)
Hearing system.
The State agency shall provide for either a hearing at the State level or a hearing at the local level which permits the individual to appeal a local agency decision to the State agency. The State agency may adopt local level hearings in some areas, such as those with large caseloads, and maintain only State level hearings in other areas.
(c)
Notification of appeal rights.
At the time of a claim against an individual for improperly issued benefits or at the time of participation denial or of disqualification from the Program, the State or local agency shall inform each individual in writing of the right to a fair hearing, of the method by which a hearing may be requested, and that any positions or arguments on behalf of the individual may be presented personally or by a representative such as a relative, friend, legal counsel or other spokesperson. Such notification is not required at the expiration of a certification period.
(d)
Request for hearing.
A request for a hearing is defined as any clear expression by the individual, the individual's parent, caretaker, or other representative, that he or she desires an opportunity to present his or her case to a higher authority. The State or local agency shall not limit or interfere with the individual's freedom to request a hearing.
(e)
Time limit for request.
The State or local agency shall provide individuals a reasonable period of time to request fair hearings; provided that, such time limit is not less than 60 days from the date the agency mails or gives the applicant or participant the notice of adverse action.
(f)
Denial or dismissal of request.
The State and local agencies shall not deny or dismiss a request for a hearing unless—
(1) The request is not received within the time limit set by the State agency in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;
(2) The request is withdrawn in writing by the appellant or a representative of the appellant;
(3) The appellant or representative fails, without good cause, to appear at the scheduled hearing; or
(4) The appellant has been denied participation by a previous hearing and cannot provide evidence that circumstances relevant to Program eligibility have changed in such a way as to justify a hearing.
(g)
Continuation of benefits.
Participants who appeal the termination of benefits within the 15 days advance adverse action notice period provided by § 246.7(j)(6) must continue to receive Program benefits until the hearing official reaches a decision or the certification period expires, whichever occurs first. This does not apply to applicants denied benefits at initial certification, participants whose certification periods have expired, or participants who become categorically ineligible for benefits. Applicants who are denied benefits at initial certification, participants whose certification periods have expired, or participants who become categorically ineligible during a certification period may appeal the denial or termination within the timeframes set by the State agency in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, but must not receive benefits while awaiting the hearing or its results.
(h)
Rules of procedure.
State and local agencies shall process each request for a hearing under uniform rules of procedure and shall makes these rules of procedure available for public inspection and copying. At a minimum, such rules shall include: The time limits for requesting and conducting a hearing; all advance notice requirements; the rules of conduct at the hearing; and the rights and responsibilities of the appellant. The procedures shall not be unduly complex or legalistic.
(i)
Hearing official.
Hearings shall be conducted by an impartial official who does not have any personal stake or involvement in the decision and who was not directly involved in the initial determination of the action being contested. The hearing official shall—
(1) Administer oaths or affirmations if required by the State;
(2) Ensure that all relevant issues are considered;
(3) Request, receive and make part of the hearing record all evidence determined necessary to decide the issues being raised;
(4) Regulate the conduct and course of the hearing consistent with due process to ensure an orderly hearing;
(5) Order, where relevant and necessary, an independent medical assessment or professional evaluation from a source mutually satisfactory to the appellant and the State agency; and
(6) Render a hearing decision which will resolve the dispute.
(j)
Conduct of the hearing.
The State or lcoal agency shall ensure that the hearing is accessible to the appellant and is held within three weeks from the date the State or local agency received the request for a hearing. The State or local agency shall provide the appellant with a minimum of 10 days advance written notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall enclose an explanation of the hearing procedure with the notice. The State or local agency shall also provide the appellant or representative an opportunity to—
(1) Examine, prior to and during the hearing, the documents and records presented to support the decision under appeal;
(2) Be assisted or represented by an attorney or other persons;
(3) Bring witnesses;
(4) Advance arguments without undue interference;
(5) Question or refute any testimony or evidence, including an opportunity to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses; and
(6) Submit evidence to establish all pertinent facts and circumstances in the case.
(k)
Fair hearing decisions.
(1) Decisions of the hearing official shall be based upon the application of appropriate Federal law, regulations and policy as related to the facts of the case as established in the hearing record. The verbatim transcript or recording of testimony and exhibits, or an official report containing the substance of what transpired at the hearing, together with all papers and requests filed in the proceeding, constitute the exclusive record for a final decision by hearing official. The State or local agency shall retain the hearing record in accordance with § 246.25 and make these records
available, for copying and inspection, to the appellant or representative at any reasonable time.
(2) The decision by the hearing official shall summarize the facts of the case, specify the reasons for the decision, and identify the supporting evidence and the pertinent regulations or policy. The decision shall become a part of the record.
(3) Within 45 days of the receipt of the request for the hearing, the State or local agency shall notify the appellant or representative in writing of the decision and the reasons for the decision in accordance with paragraph (k)(2) of this section. If the decision is in favor of the appellant and benefits were denied or discontinued, benefits shall begin immediately. If the decision concerns disqualification and is in favor of the agency, as soon as administratively feasible, the local agency shall terminate any continued benefits, as decided by the hearing official. If the decision regarding repayment of benefits by the appellant is in favor of the agency, the State or local agency shall resume its efforts to collect the claim, even during pendency of an appeal of a local-level fair hearing decision to the State agency. The appellant may appeal a local hearing decision to the State agency, provided that the request for appeal is made within 15 days of the mailing date of the hearing decision notice. If the decision being appealed concerns disqualification from the Program, the appellant shall not continue to receive benefits while an appeal to the State agency of a decision rendered on appeal at the local level is pending. The decision of a hearing official at the local level is binding on the local agency and the State agency unless it is appealed to the State level and overturned by the State hearing official.
(4) The State and local agency shall make all hearing records and decisions available for public inspection and copying; however, the names and addresses of participants and other members of the public shall be kept confidential.
(l)
Judicial review.
If a State level decision upholds the agency action and the appellant expresses an interest in pursuing a higher review of the decision, the State agency shall explain any further State level review of the decision and any State level rehearing process. If these are either unavailable or have been exhausted, the State agency shall explain the right to pursue judicial review of the decision.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 21236, June 4, 1987; 59 FR 11503, Mar. 11, 1994; 71 FR 56730, Sept. 27, 2006; 73 FR 11312, Mar. 3, 2008]

# Subpart D—Participant Benefits
§ 246.10
Supplemental foods.
(a)
General.
This section prescribes the requirements for providing supplemental foods to participants. The State agency must ensure that local agencies comply with this section.
(b)
State agency responsibilities.
(1) State agencies may:
(i) Establish criteria in addition to the minimum Federal requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section for the supplemental foods in their States, except that the State agency may not selectively choose which eligible fruits and vegetables are available to participants. These State agency criteria could address, but not be limited to, other nutritional standards, competitive cost, State-wide availability, and participant appeal. For eligible fruits and vegetables, State agencies may restrict packaging,
e.g.,
plastic containers, and package sizes such as single serving of processed fruits and vegetables available for purchase with the cash-value voucher. In addition, State agencies may identify certain processed WIC-eligible fruits and vegetables on food lists where the potential exists for vendor or participant confusion in determining authorized WIC-eligible items.
(ii) Make food package adjustments to better accommodate participants who are homeless. At the State agency's option, these adjustments would include, but not be limited to, issuing authorized supplemental foods in individual serving-size containers to accommodate lack of food storage or preparation facilities.
(iii) Authorize package sizes, in addition to those authorized to fulfill paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, that increase participant variety and choice,
except WIC formula, which must be authorized in sizes that correspond with the maximum monthly allowances per paragraphs (e)(9) and (11) of this section.
(2) State agencies must:
(i) Identify the brands of foods and package sizes that are acceptable for use in the Program in their States in accordance with the requirements of this section; all State agencies must authorize at least one package size (or combination of package sizes) that equal or add up to the maximum monthly allowances of all authorized supplemental foods in each of the food packages. State agencies must also provide to local agencies, and include in the State Plan, a list of acceptable foods and their maximum monthly allowances as specified in tables 1 through 4 to paragraphs (e)(9) through (12) of this section; and
(ii) Ensure that local agencies:
(A) Make available to participants the maximum monthly allowances of authorized supplemental foods, except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section, inform participants about the maximum monthly allowances of authorized supplemental foods to which they are entitled as a Program participant and any food substitution options as specified in tables 1 through 3 to paragraphs (e)(9) through (11) of this section that the State agency authorizes, and abide by the authorized substitution rates for WIC food substitutions as specified in tables 1 through 3 to paragraphs (e)(9) through (11);
(B) Make available to participants more than one food from each WIC food category except for the categories of peanut butter and eggs, and any of the WIC-eligible fruits and vegetables (fresh or processed) in each authorized food package as listed in paragraph (e) of this section;
(C) Authorize only a competent professional authority to prescribe the categories of authorized supplemental foods in quantities that do not exceed the regulatory maximum and are appropriate for the participant, taking into consideration the participant's nutritional and breastfeeding needs; and
(D) Advise participants or their caretaker, when appropriate, that the supplemental foods issued are only for their personal use. However, the supplemental foods are not authorized for participant use while hospitalized on an in-patient basis. In addition, consistent with § 246.7(m)(1)(i)(B), supplemental foods are not authorized for use in the preparation of meals served in a communal food service. This restriction does not preclude the provision or use of supplemental foods for individual participants in a nonresidential setting (
e.g.,
child care facility, family day care home, school, or other educational program); a homeless facility that meets the requirements of § 246.7(m)(1); or, at the State agency's discretion, a residential institution (
e.g.,
home for pregnant teens, prison, or residential drug treatment center) that meets the requirements currently set forth in § 246.7(m)(1) and (2).
(c)
Nutrition tailoring.
Nutrition tailoring is the process of modifying an individual food package to better meet the supplemental nutritional needs of each participant. It entails making substitutions, reductions, and/or eliminations to food types and physical food forms in accordance with paragraphs (e)(9) through (11) of this section to accommodate special dietary needs, cultural practices, and/or personal preference. The full maximum monthly allowances of all supplemental foods in all food packages must be made available to participants unless medically or nutritionally warranted. Reductions in these amounts cannot be made for cost-savings, administrative convenience, caseload management, or to control vendor abuse. Reductions in these amounts or eliminations of foods cannot be made for categories, groups, or subgroups of WIC participants and may be done only after a nutrition assessment and offering substitution options available in the State in accordance with paragraphs (e)(9) through (11) and State agency policy. The provision of less than the maximum monthly allowances of supplemental foods to an individual WIC participant in all food packages is appropriate only when:
(1) Medically or nutritionally warranted (
e.g.,
to eliminate a food due to a food allergy);
(2) A participant refuses or cannot use the maximum monthly allowances,
or chooses to take less than the maximum monthly allowance; or
(3) The quantities necessary to supplement another program's contribution to fill a medical prescription would be less than the maximum monthly allowances.
(d)
Medical documentation
—(1)
Supplemental foods requiring medical documentation.
Medical documentation is required for the issuance of the following supplemental foods:
(i) Any non-contract brand infant formula;
(ii) Any infant formula prescribed to an infant, child, or adult who receives Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section);
(iii) Any exempt infant formula;
(iv) Any WIC-eligible nutritional;
(v) Any authorized supplemental food issued to participants who receive Food Package III; and
(vi) Any contract brand infant formula that does not meet the requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section.
(2)
Medical documentation for other supplemental foods.
(i) State agencies may authorize local agencies to issue a non-contract brand infant formula that meets the requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section without medical documentation in order to meet religious eating patterns; and
(ii) The State agency has the discretion to require medical documentation for any contract brand infant formula other than the primary contract infant formula and may decide that some contract brand infant formula may not be issued under any circumstances.
(3)
Medical determination.
For purposes of this paragraph (d), medical documentation means that a health care professional licensed to write medical prescriptions under State law has:
(i) Made a medical determination that the participant has a qualifying condition as described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section that dictates the use of the supplemental foods, as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and
(ii) Provided the written documentation that meets the technical requirements described in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(4)
Technical requirements
—(i)
Location.
All medical documentation must be kept on file (electronic or hard copy) at the local clinic. The medical documentation kept on file must include the initial telephone documentation, when received as described in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(B) of this section.
(ii)
Content.
All medical documentation must include the following:
(A) The name of the authorized WIC formula (infant formula, exempt infant formula, WIC-eligible nutritional) prescribed, including amount needed per day;
(B) The authorized supplemental food(s) appropriate for the qualifying condition(s) and their prescribed amounts;
(C) Length of time the prescribed WIC formula and/or supplemental food is required by the participant;
(D) The qualifying condition(s) for issuance of the authorized supplemental food(s) requiring medical documentation, as described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section; and
(E) Signature, date, and contact information (or name, date, and contact information), if the initial medical documentation was received by telephone and the signed document is forthcoming, of the health care professional licensed by the State to write prescriptions in accordance with State laws.
(iii)
Written confirmation
—(A)
General.
Medical documentation must be written and may be provided as an original written document, an electronic document, or by facsimile or telephone to a competent professional authority until written confirmation is received.
(B)
Medical documentation provided by telephone.
Medical documentation may be provided by telephone to a competent professional authority who must promptly document the information. The collection of the required information by telephone for medical documentation purposes may only be used until written confirmation is received from a health care professional licensed to write medical prescriptions and used only when absolutely necessary on an individual participant basis. The local clinic must obtain written confirmation of the medical documentation within a reasonable amount of time (
i.e.,
one- or two-weeks'
time) after accepting the initial medical documentation by telephone.
(5)
Medical supervision requirements.
Due to the nature of the health conditions of participants who are issued supplemental foods that require medical documentation, close medical supervision is essential for each participant's dietary management. The responsibility remains with the participant's health care provider for this medical oversight and instruction. This responsibility cannot be assumed by personnel at the WIC State or local agency. However, it would be the responsibility of the WIC competent professional authority to ensure that only the amounts of supplemental foods prescribed by the participant's health care provider are issued in the participant's food package.
(e)
Food packages.
There are seven food packages available under the Program that may be provided to participants. The authorized supplemental foods must be prescribed from food packages according to the category and nutritional needs of the participants. Breastfeeding assessment and the mother's plans for breastfeeding serve as the basis for determining food package issuance for all breastfeeding women. The intent of the WIC Program is that all breastfeeding women be supported to exclusively breastfeed their infants and to choose the fully breastfeeding food package without infant formula. Breastfeeding mothers whose infants receive formula from WIC are to be supported to breastfeed to the maximum extent possible with minimal supplementation with infant formula. Formula amounts issued to a breastfed infant are to be tailored to meet but not exceed the infant's nutritional needs. The seven food packages are as follows:
(1)
Food Package I—Infants birth through 5 months
—(i)
Participant category served.
This food package is designed for issuance to infants from birth through age 5 months who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section). The following infant feeding variations are defined for the purposes of assigning food quantities and types in Food Packages I: Fully breastfeeding (the infant doesn't receive formula from the WIC Program); partially (mostly) breastfeeding (the infant is breastfed but also receives infant formula from WIC up to the maximum allowance described for partially (mostly) breastfed infants in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section; and fully formula fed (the infant is not breastfed or is breastfed minimally (the infant receives infant formula from WIC in quantities that exceed those allowed for partially (mostly) breastfed infants).
(ii)
Infant feeding age categories
—
Birth through 5 months.
Three infant food packages are available from birth through 5 months—fully breastfeeding, partially (mostly) breastfeeding, or fully formula-fed.
(iii)
Infant formula requirements.
This food package provides iron-fortified infant formula that is not an exempt infant formula and that meets the requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section. The issuance of any contract brand or noncontract brand infant formula that contains less than 10 milligrams of iron per liter (at least 1.5 milligrams iron per 100 kilocalories) at standard dilution is prohibited. Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, local agencies must issue as the first choice of issuance the primary contract infant formula, as defined in § 246.2, with all other infant formulas issued as an alternative to the primary contract infant formula. Noncontract brand infant formula and any contract brand infant formula that does not meet the requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section may be issued in this food package only with medical documentation of the qualifying condition. A health care professional licensed by the State to write prescriptions must make a medical determination and provide medical documentation that indicates the need for the infant formula. For situations that do not require the use of an exempt infant formula, such determinations include, but are not limited to, documented formula intolerance, food allergy or inappropriate growth pattern. Medical documentation must meet the requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(iv)
Physical forms.
Local agencies must issue all WIC formulas (infant formula, exempt infant formula and WIC-eligible nutritionals) in concentrated liquid or powder physical forms. Ready-to-feed WIC formulas may be authorized when the competent professional authority determines and documents that:
(A) The participant's household has an unsanitary or restricted water supply or poor refrigeration;
(B) The person caring for the participant may have difficulty in correctly diluting concentrated or powder forms; or
(C) The WIC infant formula is only available in ready-to-feed.
(v)
Authorized category of supplemental foods.
Infant formula is the only category of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. Exempt infant formulas and WIC-eligible nutritionals are authorized only in Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section). The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for infants in Food Packages I are stated in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
(2)
Food Package II—Infants 6 through 11 months
—(i)
Participant category served.
This food package is designed for issuance to infants from 6 through 11 months of age who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section).
(ii)
Infant food packages.
Three food packages for infants 6 through 11 months are available—fully breastfeeding, partially (mostly) breastfeeding, or fully formula fed.
(iii)
Infant formula requirements.
The requirements for issuance of infant formula in Food Package I, specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, also apply to the issuance of infant formula in Food Package II.
(iv)
Authorized categories of supplemental foods.
Infant formula, infant cereal, and infant foods are the categories of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for infants in Food Packages II are stated in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
(3)
Food Package III—Participants with qualifying conditions
—(i)
Participant category served and qualifying conditions.
This food package is reserved for issuance to women, infants, and children who have a documented qualifying condition that requires the use of a WIC formula (infant formula, exempt infant formula, or WIC-eligible nutritional) because the use of conventional foods is precluded, restricted, or inadequate to address their special nutritional needs. Medical documentation must meet the requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section. Participants who are eligible to receive this food package must have one or more qualifying conditions, as determined by a health care professional licensed to write medical prescriptions under State law. The qualifying conditions include but are not limited to premature birth, low birth weight, failure to thrive, inborn errors of metabolism and metabolic disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, malabsorption syndromes, immune system disorders, severe food allergies that require an elemental formula, and life threatening disorders, diseases and medical conditions that impair ingestion, digestion, absorption, or the utilization of nutrients that could adversely affect the participant's nutrition status. This food package may not be issued solely for the purpose of enhancing nutrient intake or managing body weight.
(ii)
Non-authorized issuance of Food Package III.
This food package is not authorized for:
(A) Infants whose only condition is:
(
1
) A diagnosed formula intolerance or food allergy to lactose, sucrose, milk protein, or soy protein that does not require the use of an exempt infant formula; or
(
2
) A non-specific formula or food intolerance;
(B) Women and children who have a food intolerance to lactose or milk protein that can be successfully managed with the use of one of the other WIC food packages (
i.e.,
Food Packages IV through VII (see paragraph (e)(4) through (7) of this section); or
(C) Any participant solely for the purpose of enhancing nutrient intake or managing body weight without an underlying qualifying condition.
(iii)
Restrictions on the issuance of WIC formulas in ready-to-feed (RTF) forms.
WIC State agencies must issue WIC formulas (infant formula, exempt infant formula, and WIC-eligible nutritionals) in concentrated liquid or powder physical forms unless the requirements for issuing RTF are met as described in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section. In addition to those requirements, there are two additional conditions which may be used to issue RTF in Food Package III:
(A) If a ready-to-feed form better accommodates the participant's condition; or
(B) If it improves the participant's compliance in consuming the prescribed WIC formula.
(iv)
Unauthorized WIC costs.
All apparatuses or devices (
e.g.,
enteral feeding tubes, bags, and pumps) designed to administer WIC formulas are not allowable WIC costs.
(v)
Authorized categories of supplemental foods.
The supplemental foods authorized in this food package require medical documentation for issuance and include WIC formula (infant formula, exempt infant formula, and WIC-eligible nutritionals), infant cereal, infant foods, milk, eggs, canned fish, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, breakfast cereal, whole wheat/whole grain bread, juice, and legumes and/or peanut butter. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for infants in Food Package III are stated in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for children and women in Food Package III are stated in table 3 to paragraph (e)(11) of this section.
(vi)
Coordination with medical payors and other programs that provide or reimburse for formulas.
WIC State agencies must coordinate with other Federal, State, or local government agencies or with private agencies that operate programs that also provide or could reimburse for exempt infant formulas and WIC-eligible nutritionals benefits to mutual participants. At a minimum, a WIC State agency must coordinate with the State Medicaid Program for the provision of exempt infant formulas and WIC-eligible nutritionals that are authorized or could be authorized under the State Medicaid Program for reimbursement and that are prescribed for WIC participants who are also Medicaid recipients. The WIC State agency is responsible for providing up to the maximum amount of exempt infant formulas and WIC-eligible nutritionals under Food Package III in situations where reimbursement is not provided by another entity.
(4)
Food Package IV-A and B—Children 1 through 4 years
—(i)
Participant category served.
This food package is designed for issuance to children 1 through 4 years of age who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section) and is divided into: Food Package IV-A for children 1 to less than 2 years of age (
i.e.,
12 through 23 months) and Food Package IV-B for children 2 years through 4 years of age.
(ii)
Authorized categories of supplemental foods.
Milk, breakfast cereal, juice, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, whole wheat/whole grain bread, eggs, legumes or peanut butter, and canned fish are the categories of supplemental foods authorized for both Food Package IV-A and IV-B. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for children in Food Packages IV-A and IV-B are stated in table 2 to paragraph (e)(10) of this section.
(5)
Food Package V-A and B—Pregnant and partially (mostly) breastfeeding women
—(i)
Participant categories served.
This food package is designed for issuance to three categories of women who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section) and is divided into: Food Package V-A for issuance to women with singleton pregnancies and Food Package V-B for issuance to women pregnant with two or more fetuses and, for up to 1 year postpartum, partially (mostly) breastfeeding women whose partially (mostly) breastfed infants receive formula from the WIC Program in amounts that do not exceed the maximum allowances described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
Women partially (mostly) breastfeeding more than one infant from the same pregnancy and pregnant women fully or partially breastfeeding singleton infants are eligible to receive Food Package VII as described in paragraph (e)(7) of this section.
(ii)
Authorized categories of supplemental foods.
Milk, breakfast cereal, juice, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, whole wheat/whole grain bread, eggs, legumes and peanut butter, and canned fish are the categories of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for women in Food Packages V-A and V-B are stated in table 2 to paragraph (e)(10) of this section.
(6)
Food Package VI—Postpartum women
—(i)
Participant categories served.
This food package is designed for issuance to women up to 6 months postpartum who are not breastfeeding their infants, and to breastfeeding women up to 6 months postpartum whose participating infant receives more than the maximum amount of formula allowed for partially (mostly) breastfed infants as described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section and who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section).
(ii)
Authorized categories of supplemental foods.
Milk, breakfast cereal, juice, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, whole wheat/whole grain bread, eggs, legumes or peanut butter, and canned fish are the categories of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for women in Food Package VI are stated in table 2 to paragraph (e)(10) of this section.
(7)
Food Package VII—Fully breastfeeding
—(i)
Participant categories served.
This food package is designed for issuance to breastfeeding women up to 1 year postpartum whose infants do not receive infant formula from WIC (these breastfeeding women are assumed to be exclusively breastfeeding their infants) and who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section). This food package is also designed for issuance to women partially (mostly) breastfeeding multiple infants from the same pregnancy, and pregnant women who are also partially (mostly) breastfeeding singleton infants and who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III. Women fully breastfeeding multiple infants from the same pregnancy receive 1.5 times the supplemental foods provided in Food Package VII.
(ii)
Authorized categories of supplemental foods.
Milk, breakfast cereal, juice, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, whole wheat/whole grain bread, eggs, legumes and peanut butter, and canned fish are the categories of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for women in Food Package VII are stated in table 2 to paragraph (e)(10) of this section.
(8)
Supplemental foods—Maximum monthly allowances, options and substitution rates, and minimum requirements.
Tables 1 through 3 to paragraphs (e)(9) through (11) of this section specify the maximum monthly allowances of foods in WIC food packages and identify WIC food options and substitution rates. Table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section describes the minimum requirements and specifications of supplemental foods in the WIC food packages.
(9)
Full nutrition benefit and maximum monthly allowances supplemental foods for infants in Food Packages I, II, and III.
Full nutrition benefit and maximum monthly allowances, options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for infants in Food Packages I, II, and III (see paragraph (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section) are stated in table 1 to this paragraph (e)(9) as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(e)(9)
—Food Packages I, II, and III: Full Nutrition Benefit (FNB) and Maximum Monthly Allowances (MMA) of Supplemental Foods for Infants by Feeding Option and Food Package Timeframe
Foods
1
Fully Formula Fed (FF)
Food Packages I-FF
III-FF
A: 0 through 3 months
B: 4 through 5 months
Food Packages II-FF
III-FF
6 through 11 months
Partially (mostly) Breastfed (BF/FF)
Food Packages IBF/FF
III BF/FF
A: 0 through 3 months
B: 4 through 5 months
Food Packages II BF/FF
III BF/FF
6 through 11 months
Fully Breastfed (BF)
Food
Package
I-BF
0 through 5 months
Food
Package
II-BF
6 through 11 months
WIC
Formula
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
A: FNB = Up to 806 fl oz. MMA= 823 fl reconstituted liquid concentrate or 832 fl oz RTF or 870 fl oz reconstituted powder
FNB = Up to 624 fl oz. MMA = 630 fl oz reconstituted liquid concentrate or 643 fl oz RTF or 696 fl oz reconstituted powder
A: FNB = Up to 364 fl oz. MMA = 388 fl oz reconstituted liquid concentrate or 384 fl oz RTF or 435 fl oz reconstituted powder
FNB = Up to 312 fl oz. MMA = 315 fl oz reconstituted liquid concentrate or 338 fl oz RTF or 384 fl oz reconstituted powder
N/A
N/A.
B: FNB = Up to 884 fl oz. MMA = 896 fl oz reconstituted liquid concentrate or 913 fl oz RTF or 960 fl oz reconstituted powder
B: FNB = Up to 442 fl oz. MMA = 460 fl oz reconstituted liquid concentrate or 474 fl oz RTF or 522 fl oz reconstituted powder
Infant Cereal
9 10 11
N/A
8 oz
N/A
8 oz
N/A
16 oz.
Infant food fruits and vegetables
9 10 11 12 13
N/A
128 oz
N/A
128 oz
N/A
128 oz.
Infant food meat
9 10
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
40 oz.
Notes:
Abbreviations in order of appearance in table: FF = fully formula fed; BF/FF = partially (mostly) breastfed; BF = fully breastfed; RTF = ready-to-feed; N/A = Not applicable (the supplemental food is not authorized in the corresponding food package.
1
Table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section describes the minimum requirements and specifications for supplemental foods. The competent professional authority (CPA) is authorized to determine nutritional risk and prescribe supplemental foods in Food Packages I, II, and III (see paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section) (per medical documentation), as established by State agency policy. Food Package III is issued to participants with qualifying medical conditions. A WIC formula is issued to participants receiving Food Package III under the direction of a health care provider.
2
Amounts represent the FNB defined as the minimum amount of reconstituted fluid ounces of liquid concentrate infant formula as specified for each infant food package category and feeding variation. The FNB is based on a 13-ounce can that formed the basis of substitution rates for other physical forms of infant formula (
i.e.,
powder and RTF infant formula).
3
Following a WIC nutrition and breastfeeding assessment of the needs of the dyad, breastfed infants, even those in the fully formula fed category, should be issued the quantity of formula needed to support any level of breastfeeding up to the FNB. This amount may be less than the FNB.
4
WIC formula means infant formula, exempt infant formula, or WIC-eligible nutritionals. Infant formula may be issued for infants in Food Packages I, II and III. Medical documentation is required for issuance of WIC formula and other supplemental foods in Food Package III. Only infant formula may be issued for infants in Food Packages I and II.
5
State agencies must issue whole containers that are all the same size of the same physical form.
6
The MMA is specified in reconstituted fluid ounces for liquid concentrate, RTF liquid, and powder forms of infant formula and exempt infant formula. Reconstituted fluid ounce is the form prepared for consumption as directed on the container. Formula provided to infants in any form may not exceed the MMA.
7
The FNB is intended to provide close to 100 percent of the nutritional needs of a non-breastfed infant from birth to 6 months. State agencies must provide at least the FNB authorized to non-breastfed infants up to the MMA for the physical form of the product specified for each food package category unless the food package is tailored to allow “up to” amounts to support breastfeeding.
8
State agencies may round up to issue whole containers of infant formula over the food package timeframe. State agencies must use the methodology described in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section.
9
Per paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, State agencies must make the full MMA of all foods available to participants by providing at least one package size (or combination of sizes) that add up to the full MMA. However, per paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, State agencies may authorize other package sizes (excluding WIC formula) to increase participant variety and choice.
10
State agencies may round up to issue whole containers of infant foods (infant cereal, fruits and vegetables, and meat) over the food package timeframe. State agencies must use the methodology described in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
11
In lieu of infant foods (cereal, fruit, and vegetables), infants older than 6 months of age in Food Package III may receive WIC formula (infant formula, exempt infant formula, or WIC-eligible nutritionals) at the same MMA as infants ages 4 through 5 months of age of the same feeding option.
12
At State agency option, infants 6 through 11 months in Food Packages II and III may receive a cash-value voucher (CVV) to purchase fruits and vegetables in lieu of the infant food fruits and vegetables. Fully breastfed infants, partially (mostly) breastfed infants, and fully formula fed infants may substitute half (64 oz.) or all (128 oz.) of jarred infant fruits and vegetables with a $10 or $20 CVV, respectively. The monthly value of the CVV substitution amounts for infant fruits and vegetables will be adjusted annually for inflation consistent with the annual inflation adjustments made to CVV values for women and children. State agencies must authorize fresh and one other form (frozen or canned). Dried fruits and vegetables are not authorized for infants. The CVV may be redeemed for any eligible fruit and vegetable (refer to table 4 of paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes).
13
State agencies may not categorically issue a CVV for infants 6 through 11 months. The CVV is to be provided to the participant only after an individual nutrition assessment, as established by State agency policy. State agencies must ensure that appropriate nutrition education is provided to the caregiver addressing developmental readiness, safe food preparation, storage techniques, and feeding practices to make certain participants are meeting their nutritional needs in a safe and effective manner.
(10)
Maximum monthly allowances of supplemental foods in Food Packages IV through VII.
The maximum monthly allowances, options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for children and women in Food Packages IV through VII (see paragraphs (e)(4) through (7) of this section) are stated in table 2 to this paragraph (e)(10) as follows:
Table 2 to Paragraph
(e)(10)
—Food Packages IV, V, VI, and VII: Maximum Monthly Allowances (MMA) of Supplemental Foods for Children and Women
Foods
1
Children
Food Package IV
A: 12 through 23 months
B: 2 through 4 years
Women
Food Package V
A: Pregnant
B: Partially (Mostly) Breastfeeding
(up to 1 year postpartum)
2
Food Package VI
Postpartum
(up to 6 months postpartum)
3
Food Package VII
Fully Breastfeeding
(up to 1 year post-partum)
4 5
Juice, single strength
6 7
64 fl oz
64 fl oz
64 fl oz
64 fl oz.
Milk, fluid
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
A: 12 qt.
8 9 11 12 14
B: 14 qt.
8 10 11 12 13 14
16 qt.
8 10 11 12 13 15
16 qt.
8 10 11 12 13 15
16 qt.
8 10 11 12 13 15
Breakfast cereal
16
36 oz
36 oz
36 oz
36 oz.
Eggs
17
1 dozen
1 dozen
1 dozen
2 dozen.
Fruits and vegetables
18 19
$24.00 CVV
A: $43.00 CVV.
B: $47.00 CVV
$43.00 CVV
$47.00 CVV.
Whole wheat or whole grain bread
20
24 oz
48 oz
48 oz
48 oz.
Fish (canned)
21 22
6 oz
A: 10 oz.
B: 15 oz
10 oz
20 oz.
Mature Legumes
and/or
Peanut butter
23
1 lb dry or 64 oz canned Or 18 oz
1 lb dry or 64 oz canned And 18 oz
1 lb dry or 64 oz canned Or 18 oz
1 lb dry or 64 oz canned And 18 oz.
Note:
Abbreviations in order of appearance in table: N/A = Not applicable (the supplemental food is not authorized in the corresponding food package); CVV = cash-value voucher.
1
Table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section describes the minimum requirements and specifications for supplemental foods. Per paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, State agencies must make the full MMA of all foods available to participants by providing at least one package size (or combination of sizes) that add up to the full MMA. However, per paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, State agencies may authorize other package sizes to increase participant variety and choice. The competent professional authority (CPA) is authorized to determine nutritional risk and prescribe supplemental foods as established by State agency policy.
2
Food Package V-A (see paragraph (e)(5) of this section) is issued to women participants with singleton pregnancies. Food Package V-B (see paragraph (e)(5)) is issued to two categories of WIC participants: breastfeeding women whose partially (mostly) breastfed infants receive formula from WIC in amounts that do not exceed the maximum formula allowances, as appropriate for the age of the infant as described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section, and women pregnant with two or more fetuses.
3
Food Package VI is issued to two categories of WIC participants: non-breastfeeding postpartum women and breastfeeding postpartum women whose infants receive more than the maximum infant formula allowances from WIC for partially (mostly) breastfed infants, as appropriate for the age of the infant as described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
4
Food Package VII is issued to three categories of WIC participants: fully breastfeeding women whose infants do not receive formula from WIC; women partially (mostly) breastfeeding multiple infants from the same pregnancy; and pregnant women who are also fully or partially (mostly) breastfeeding singleton infants.
5
Women fully breastfeeding multiple infants from the same pregnancy are prescribed 1.5 times the MMA.
6
Combinations of single-strength and concentrated juices may be issued provided that the total volume does not exceed the MMA for single-strength juice.
7
Children and women may choose to substitute a $3 CVV for the full juice amount (64 fluid ounces). The monthly value of the CVV substitution amount for juice will be adjusted annually for inflation consistent with the annual inflation adjustments made to CVV values for women and children. A partial CVV substitution for juice is not authorized. The CVV may be redeemed for any eligible fruit and vegetable (refer to table 4 of paragraph (e)(12) to this section and its footnotes).
8
Regular and lactose-free milk must be authorized. “Regular milk” refers to milk that conforms to FDA standard of identity 21 CFR 131.110 and contains lactose exclusive of fat content (
e.g.,
low-fat milk). State agencies have the option to authorize plant-based milk alternatives, yogurts, and cheeses, described in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes, as milk substitution options when individually tailoring food packages.
9
Whole milk is the standard milk for issuance to 1-year-old children (12 through 23 months). Whole fat or low-fat yogurts may be substituted for fluid milk for 1-year-old children, and both are standard issuance when substituting yogurt. Fat-reduced milks or nonfat yogurt may be issued to 1-year-old children for whom overweight or obesity is a concern. The need for fat-reduced milks or nonfat yogurt for 1-year-old children must be based on an individual nutritional assessment.
10
Low-fat (1%) or nonfat milks are the standard milk for issuance to children ≥24 months of age and women. Reduced-fat (2%) milk is authorized only for participants with certain conditions, including but not limited to, underweight and maternal weight loss during pregnancy. The need for reduced-fat (2%) milk for children receiving Food Package IV-B and women must be based on an individual nutritional assessment.
11
Evaporated milk may be substituted at the rate of 16 fluid ounces of evaporated milk per 32 fluid ounces of fluid milk (
i.e.,
1:2 fluid ounce substitution ratio). Dry milk may be substituted at an equal reconstituted rate to fluid milk.
12
For children and women, 1 pound of cheese (dairy and/or plant-based) may be substituted for 3 quarts of milk; 1 quart of yogurt (dairy and/or plant-based) may be substituted for 1 quart of milk with a maximum of 2 quarts of yogurt that may be substituted for 2 quarts of milk. Women receiving Food Package VII may substitute up to of 2 pounds of cheese for 6 quarts of milk. For children and women in Food Packages IV through VI, no more than 1 pound of cheese may be substituted. State agencies do not have the option to issue additional amounts of cheese or yogurt beyond these maximums even with medical documentation.
13
For children ≥24 months of age (Food Package IV-B) and women, low-fat or nonfat yogurts are the only types of yogurts authorized.
14
When individually tailoring food packages for children, plant-based milk alternatives may be substituted for milk on a quart for quart basis up to the total MMA of milk; tofu may be substituted for milk for children at the rate of 1 pound of tofu per 1 quart of milk up to the MMA for milk.
15
When individually tailoring food packages for women, plant-based milk alternatives may be substituted for milk on a quart for quart basis up to the total MMA of milk; tofu may be substituted for milk at the rate of 1 pound of tofu per 1 quart of milk up to the total MMA of milk.
16
At least 75 percent of cereal on a State agency's authorized food list must meet whole grain criteria for breakfast cereal (refer to table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes).
17
State agencies must authorize substitution of dry legumes (1 pound), canned legumes (64 ounces), and peanut butter (18 ounces) for each 1 dozen eggs when individually tailoring food packages. At State agency option, State agencies may authorize tofu (1 pound) or nut and seed butters (18 ounces) to substitute for each 1 dozen eggs when individually tailoring food packages.
18
State agencies must authorize fresh and one other form of processed (
i.e.,
canned (shelf-stable), frozen, and/or dried) fruits and vegetables. State agencies may choose to authorize additional or all processed forms of fruits and vegetables. The CVV may be redeemed for any eligible fruit and vegetable (refer to table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes). Except as authorized in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, State agencies may not selectively choose which fruits and vegetables are available to participants. For example, if a State agency chooses to offer dried fruits, it must authorize all WIC-eligible dried fruits.
19
The monthly value of the fruit/vegetable CVV will be adjusted annually for inflation using fiscal year 2022 as the base year as described in § 246.16(j).
20
Whole wheat or whole grain bread must be authorized. State agencies have the option to also authorize other whole grain options as described in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes.
21
Issuance of smaller container sizes is encouraged to reduce the likelihood of exceeding a safe weekly consumption level of methylmercury. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) provide joint advice regarding fish consumption to limit methylmercury exposure for children. As noted in their 2021 joint advice, depending on body weight, some women and some children should choose fish lowest in methylmercury or eat less fish than the amounts in the 2020-2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans (DGA) Healthy US-Style Dietary Pattern. More information is available on the FDA and EPA websites at
FDA.gov/fishadviceandEPA.gov/fishadvice.
22
As noted in the 2021 FDA-EPA joint advice about eating fish, for some children, depending on age and caloric needs, the amounts of fish in the 2020-2025 DGA are higher than in the FDA-EPA advice. The DGA states that to consume these higher amounts, these children should consume only fish from the “Best Choices” list that are even lower in mercury—among the WIC-eligible varieties, this includes Atlantic mackerel, salmon, and sardines.
23
State agencies are required to offer both mature dry (1 pound) and canned (64 ounces) legumes. Food Packages V and VII must provide both legumes and peanut butter. However, when individually tailoring these food packages, State agencies may issue the following combinations: 1 pound dry and 64 oz. canned legumes (and no peanut butter); 2 pounds dry or 128 oz. canned legumes (and no peanut butter); or 36 oz. peanut butter (and no legumes). State agencies also have the option to authorize other nut and seed butters as a substitute for peanut butter (on a 1:1 ounce substitution ratio), as described in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes, when individually tailoring food packages.
(11)
Maximum monthly allowances of supplemental foods for children and women with qualifying conditions in Food Package III.
The maximum monthly allowances, options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for participants with qualifying conditions in Food Package III are stated in table 3 to this paragraph (e)(11) as follows:
Table 3 to Paragraph (
e
)(11)—Food Package III: Maximum Monthly Allowances (MMA) of Supplemental Foods for Children and Women With Qualifying Conditions
Foods
1
Children
A: 12 through 23 months
B: 2 through 4 years
Women
A: Pregnant
B: Partially (Mostly) Breastfeeding (up to 1 year postpartum)
2
Postpartum
(up to 6 months postpartum)
3
Fully Breastfeeding
(up to 1 year postpartum)
4 5
Juice, single strength
6 7
64 fl oz
64 fl oz
64 fl oz
64 fl oz.
WIC formula
8 9
Up to 455 fl oz liquid concentrate
Up to 455 fl oz liquid concentrate
Up to 455 fl oz liquid concentrate
Up to 455 fl oz liquid concentrate.
Milk, fluid
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
A: 12 qt.
10 11 13 14 16
.
B: 14 qt.
10 12 13 14 15 16
16 qt.
10 12 13 14 15 17
16 qt.
10 12 13 14 15 17
16 qt.
10 12 13 14 15 17
Breakfast cereal
18 19
36 oz
36 oz
36 oz
36 oz.
Eggs
20
1 dozen
1 dozen
1 dozen
2 dozen.
Fruits and vegetables
21 22 23
$24.00 CVV
A: $43.00 CVV.
B: $47.00 CVV
$43.00 CVV
47.00 CVV.
Whole wheat or whole grain bread
24
24 oz
48 oz
48 oz
48 oz.
Fish (canned)
25 26
6 oz
A: 10 oz.
B: 15 oz
10 oz
20 oz.
Mature Legumes
and/or
Peanut butter
27
1 lb dry or 64 oz canned
Or
18 oz
1 lb dry or 64 oz canned
And
18 oz
1 lb dry or 64 oz canned
Or
18 oz
1 lb dry or 64 oz canned
And
18 oz.
Note:
Abbreviations in order of appearance in table: N/A = Not applicable (the supplemental food is not authorized in the corresponding food package); CVV = cash-value voucher.
1
Table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section describes the minimum requirements and specifications for supplemental foods. Food Package III is issued to participants with qualifying medical conditions that require use of a WIC formula and supplementary foods under the direction of a health care provider. Per paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, State agencies must make the full MMA of all foods available to participants by providing at least one package size (or combination of sizes) that add up to the full MMA. However, per paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, State agencies may authorize other package sizes (excluding WIC formula) to increase participant variety and choice. The competent professional authority (CPA) is authorized to determine nutritional risk and prescribe supplemental foods per medical documentation, as established by State agency policy.
2
Food Package III-A for women is issued to participants with singleton pregnancies. Food Package III-B for women is issued to two categories of participants: women pregnant with two or more fetuses and breastfeeding women whose partially (mostly) breastfed infants receive formula from WIC in amounts that do not exceed the maximum formula allowances, as appropriate for the age of the infant as described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
3
This food package is issued to two categories of WIC participants: non-breastfeeding postpartum women and breastfeeding postpartum women whose infants receive more than the maximum infant formula allowances from WIC for partially (mostly) breastfed infants, as appropriate for the age of the infant as described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
4
This food package is issued to three categories of WIC participants: fully breastfeeding women whose infants do not receive formula from WIC; women partially (mostly) breastfeeding multiple infants from the same pregnancy; and pregnant women who are also fully or partially (mostly) breastfeeding singleton infants.
5
Women fully breastfeeding multiple infants from the same pregnancy are prescribed 1.5 times the MMA.
6
Combinations of single-strength and concentrated juices may be issued provided that the total volume does not exceed the MMA for single-strength juice.
7
As determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation, children and women may choose to substitute a $3 CVV for the full juice amount (64 fluid ounces)—a partial CVV substitution for juice is not authorized—or use their $3 CVV for jarred infant food fruits and vegetables. State agencies must use the conversion of $1 CVV = 6.25 ounces of jarred infant food fruits and vegetables. The monthly value of the CVV substitution amount for juice will be adjusted annually for inflation consistent with the inflation adjustments made to women and children's CVV values.
8
WIC formula means infant formula, exempt infant formula, or WIC-eligible nutritionals. Participants may receive up to 455 fluid ounces of a WIC formula (liquid concentrate) as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation. The number of fluid ounces refers to the amount as prepared according to directions on the container.
9
Powder and ready-to-feed may be substituted at rates that provide comparable nutritive value.
10
Regular and lactose-free milk must be authorized. “Regular milk” refers to milk that conforms to FDA standard of identity 21 CFR 131.110 and contains lactose exclusive of fat content (
e.g.,
low-fat milk). State agencies have the option to authorize plant-based milk alternatives, yogurts, and cheeses, described in table 4 of paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes, as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
11
Whole milk is the standard milk for issuance to 1-year-old children (12 through 23 months). Whole fat or low-fat yogurts may be substituted for fluid milk for 1-year-old children, and both are standard issuance when substituting yogurt. Fat-reduced milks or nonfat yogurt may be issued to 1-year-old children as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
12
Low-fat (1%) or nonfat milks are the standard milk for issuance to children ≥24 months of age and women. Whole milk or reduced-fat (2%) milk may be substituted for low-fat (1%) or nonfat milk for children ≥24 months of age and women as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
13
Evaporated milk may be substituted at the rate of 16 fluid ounces of evaporated milk per 32 fluid ounces of fluid milk (a 1:2 fluid ounce substitution ratio). Dry milk may be substituted at an equal reconstituted rate to fluid milk.
14
For children and women, 1 pound of cheese (dairy- and/or plant-based) may be substituted for 3 quarts of milk and 1 quart of yogurt (dairy- and/or plant-based) may be substituted for 1 quart of milk as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation. A maximum of 2 quarts of yogurt that may be substituted for 2 quarts of milk for both children and women. Fully breastfeeding women may substitute up to 2 pounds of cheese for 6 quarts of milk. Children and pregnant, partially breastfeeding, and postpartum women may substitute no more than 1 pound of cheese. State agencies do not have the option to issue additional amounts of cheese or yogurt beyond these maximums even with medical documentation.
15
For children ≥24 months of age and women, low-fat or nonfat yogurts are the only types of yogurts authorized. Whole or reduced-fat yogurt may be substituted for low-fat or nonfat yogurt for children ≥24 months of age and women as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
16
For children, issuance of tofu and plant-based milk alternatives may be substituted for milk as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation. Plant-based milk alternatives may be substituted for milk for children on a quart for quart basis up to the total MMA of milk. Tofu may be substituted for milk for children at the rate of 1 pound of tofu per 1 quart of milk up to the MMA of milk, as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
17
For women, plant-based milk alternatives may be substituted for milk on a quart for quart basis up to the total MMA of milk. Tofu may be substituted for milk at the rate of 1 pound of tofu per 1 quart of milk up to the MMA of milk, as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
18
32 dry ounces of infant cereal may be substituted for 36 ounces of breakfast cereal as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
19
At least 75 percent of cereals authorized on a State agency's authorized food list must meet whole grain criteria for breakfast cereal (refer to table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes).
20
State agencies must authorize substitution of dry legume (1 pound), canned legumes (64 ounces), and peanut butter (18 ounces) for each 1 dozen eggs and, at State agency option, State agencies may authorize tofu (1 pound) or nut and seed butters (18 ounces) to substitute for each 1 dozen eggs as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
21
State agencies must authorize fresh and one other form (
i.e.,
canned (shelf-stable), frozen, and/or dried) of fruits and vegetables. State agencies may choose to authorize additional or all processed forms of fruits and vegetables. The CVV may be redeemed for any eligible fruit and vegetable (refer to table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes). Except as authorized in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, State agencies may not selectively choose which fruits and vegetables are available to participants. For example, if a State agency chooses to offer dried fruits, it must authorize all WIC-eligible dried fruits.
22
Children and women whose special dietary needs require the use of pureed foods may receive commercial jarred infant food fruits and vegetables in lieu of the CVV. For children and women who require jarred infant food fruits and vegetables in place of the CVV, State agencies must use the conversion of $1 CVV = 6.25 ounces of jarred infant food fruits and vegetables. Infant food fruits and vegetables may be substituted for the CVV as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
23
The monthly value of the fruit/vegetable CVV will be adjusted annually for inflation as described in § 246.16(j).
24
Whole wheat or whole grain bread
must
be authorized. State agencies have the option to also authorize other whole grain options as described in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes.
25
Issuance of smaller container sizes is encouraged to reduce the likelihood of exceeding a safe weekly consumption level of methylmercury. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) provide joint advice regarding fish consumption to limit methylmercury exposure for children. As noted in their 2021 joint advice, depending on body weight, some women and some children should choose fish lowest in methylmercury or eat less fish than the amounts in the 2020-2025 DGA Healthy US-Style Dietary Pattern. More information is available on the FDA and EPA websites at
FDA.gov/fishadviceandEPA.gov/fishadvice.
26
As noted in the 2021 FDA-EPA joint advice about eating fish, for some children, depending on age and caloric needs, the amounts of fish in the 2020-2025 DGA are higher than in the FDA-EPA advice. The DGA states that to consume these higher amounts, these children should consume only fish from the “Best Choices” list that are even lower in mercury—among the WIC-eligible varieties, these include Atlantic mackerel, salmon, and sardines.
27
State agencies are required to offer both mature dry (1 pound) and canned (64 ounces) legumes. For food packages that provide both legumes and peanut butter, State agencies may issue the following combinations: 1 pound dry and 64 oz. canned legumes (and no peanut butter); 2 pounds dry or 128 oz. canned legumes (and no peanut butter); or 36 oz. peanut butter (and no legumes). State agencies have the option to authorize other nut and seed butters as a substitute for peanut butter (on a 1:1 ounce substitution ratio), as described in table 4 of paragraph (e)(12) of this section and its footnotes, as determined appropriate by the health care provider per medical documentation.
(12)
Minimum requirements and specifications for supplemental foods.
Table 4 to this paragraph (e)(12) describes the minimum requirements and specifications for supplemental foods in all food packages:
Table 4 to Paragraph
(e)(12)
—Minimum Requirements and Specifications for Supplemental Foods
Categories/foods
Minimum requirements and specifications
WIC Formula:
Infant Formula
All authorized infant formulas must:
(1) Meet the definition for an infant formula in section 201(z) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(z)) and meet the requirements for an infant formula under section 412 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 350a), and the regulations at 21 CFR parts 106 and 107;
(2) Be designed for enteral digestion via an oral or tube feeding;
(3) Provide at least 10 mg iron per liter (at least 1.5 mg iron/100 kilocalories) at standard dilution;
(4) Provide at least 67 kilocalories per 100 milliliters (approximately 20 kilocalories per fluid ounce) at standard dilution; and
(5) Not require the addition of any ingredients other than water prior to being served in a liquid state.
Exempt Infant Formula
All authorized exempt infant formula must:
(1) Meet the definition and requirements for an exempt infant formula under section 412(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (21 U.S.C. 350a(h)), and the regulations at 21 CFR parts 106 and 107; and
(2) Be designed for enteral digestion via an oral or tube feeding.
WIC-eligible Nutritionals
1
Certain enteral products that are specifically formulated and commercially manufactured (as opposed to a naturally occurring foodstuff used in its natural state) to provide nutritional support for individuals with a qualifying condition, when the use of conventional foods is precluded, restricted, or inadequate. Such WIC-eligible nutritionals must serve the purpose of a food, meal, or diet (may be nutritionally complete or incomplete) and provide a source of calories and one or more nutrients; be designed for enteral digestion via an oral or tube feeding; and may not be a conventional food, drug, flavoring, or enzyme.
Milk, Milk Alternatives, and Milk Substitutions:
Cow's Milk
2
Must conform to FDA Standard of Identity for whole, reduced-fat, low-fat, or nonfat milks (21 CFR 131.110). Must be pasteurized. Only unflavored milk is permitted. May be fluid, shelf-stable, evaporated (21 CFR 131.130), or dry.
Dry whole milk must conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR 131.147). Nonfat dry milk must conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR 131.127).
Cultured milks must conform to FDA Standard of Identity for cultured milk,
e.g.,
cultured buttermilk, kefir cultured milk, acidophilus cultured milk (21 CFR 131.112).
Acidified milk must conform to FDA Standard of Identity for acidified milk,
e.g.,
acidified kefir milk, acidified acidophilus milk or acidified buttermilk (21 CFR 131.111).
Whole, reduced-fat, low-fat, and nonfat cow's milk types and varieties must contain at least 400 IU of vitamin D per quart (100 IU per cup) and 2,000 IU of vitamin A per quart (500 IU per cup).
Goat's Milk
Must be pasteurized. Only unflavored milk is permitted. May be fluid, shelf-stable, evaporated, or dry (
i.e.,
powdered).
Whole, reduced-fat, low-fat, and nonfat goat's milk must contain at least 400 IU of vitamin D per quart (100 IU per cup) and 2,000 IU of vitamin A per quart (500 IU per cup).
Plant-based Milk Alternatives
Must contain ≤10 g of added sugars per cup and be fortified to meet the following nutrient levels (amounts are provided per cup): 276 mg calcium, 8 g protein, 500 international units vitamin A, 100 IU (2.5 micrograms) vitamin D, 24 mg magnesium, 222 mg phosphorus, 349 mg potassium, 0.44 mg riboflavin, and 1.1 mcg vitamin B12, in accordance with FDA-issued fortification guidelines. May be flavored or unflavored.
Cheese
Domestic cheese made from 100 percent pasteurized milk. Must conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR part 133); Monterey Jack, Colby, natural Cheddar, Swiss, Brick, Muenster, Provolone, part-skim or whole Mozzarella, pasteurized process American, or blends of any of these cheeses are authorized.
Cheeses that are labeled low, free, reduced, less or light in sodium, fat or cholesterol are WIC-eligible.
Plant-based Cheese Alternatives
Must contain a minimum of 250 mg of calcium and 6.5 g of protein per 1.5 ounces. Plant-based curd cheeses are not authorized.
Yogurt (cow's milk)
Must be pasteurized, conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR 131.200) and contain ≤16 grams of added sugar and a minimum of 106 IU (2.67 micrograms) of vitamin D per 8 ounces.May be plain or flavored. Yogurts that are fortified with vitamin A and other nutrients may be allowed at the State agency's option. Yogurts sold with accompanying mix-in ingredients such as granola, candy pieces, honey, nuts, and similar ingredients are not authorized. Drinkable yogurts are not authorized.
Plant-based Yogurt Alternatives
Must contain ≤16 g of added sugars and a minimum of 250 mg of calcium, 6.5 g of protein, and 106 IU (2.67 micrograms) of vitamin D per 8 ounces. May be plain or flavored.
Plant-based yogurts sold with accompanying mix-in ingredients such as granola, candy pieces, honey, nuts, and similar ingredients are not authorized. Drinkable yogurts are not authorized.
Tofu
Must contain a minimum of 100 mg of calcium per 100 g of tofu. May not contain added fats, sugars, oils, or sodium.
Juice
Must be pasteurized 100 percent unsweetened fruit juice. Must contain at least 30 mg of vitamin C per 100 mL of juice. Must conform to FDA Standard of Identity as appropriate (21 CFR part 146) or vegetable juice must conform to FDA Standard of Identity as appropriate (21 CFR part 156). Except for 100 percent citrus juices, State agencies must verify the vitamin C content of all State-approved juices. Juices that are fortified with other nutrients may be allowed at the State agency's option. Juice may be fresh, from concentrate, frozen, canned, or shelf stable. Blends of authorized juices are allowed.
Vegetable juice may be regular or lower in sodium.
Eggs
Fresh shell domestic hens' eggs or dried eggs mix (must conform to FDA Standard of Identity in 21 CFR 160.105) or pasteurized liquid whole eggs (must conform to FDA Standard of Identity in 21 CFR 160.115).
Hard boiled eggs, where readily available for purchase in small quantities, may be provided for homeless participants.
Breakfast Cereal (Ready-to-eat and instant and regular hot cereals)
Must contain a minimum of 28 mg iron per 100 g dry cereal.
Must contain ≤21.2 g of added sugar per 100 g dry cereal (≤6 g per dry oz.)
Seventy five percent of cereals on the State agency authorized food list must contain whole grain as the first ingredient.
Fruits and vegetables (fresh and processed)
3 4 5 6 7
Any variety of fresh (as defined by 21 CFR 101.95) whole or cut fruit without added sugars.
Any variety of fresh (as defined by 21 CFR 101.95) whole or cut vegetable without added sugars, fats, or oils.
Any variety of canned fruits (must conform to FDA standard of identity as appropriate (21 CFR part 145)); including applesauce, juice pack or water pack without added sugars, fats, oils, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium). The fruit must be listed as the first ingredient.
Any variety of frozen fruits without added sugars, fats, oils, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium).
Any variety of canned or frozen vegetables without added sugars, fats, or oils. Vegetable must be listed as the first ingredient. May be regular or lower in sodium. Must conform to FDA standard of identity as appropriate (21 CFR part 155).
Any type of dried fruits or dried vegetables without added sugars, fats, oils, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium).
Any type of immature beans, peas, or lentils, fresh or in canned
4
forms.
Any type of frozen beans (immature or mature). Beans purchased with the CVV may contain added vegetables and fruits, but may not contain added sugars, fats, oils, or meat as purchased. Canned beans, peas, or lentils may be regular or lower in sodium content.
State agencies must allow organic forms of WIC-eligible fruits and vegetables.
Whole Wheat Bread, Whole Grain Bread, and Whole Grain Options:
Bread
Whole wheat bread
must conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR 136.180). (Includes whole wheat buns and rolls.) “Whole wheat flour” and/or “bromated whole wheat flour” must be the only flours listed in the ingredient list.
OR
Whole grain bread
must conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR 136.110) (includes whole grain buns and rolls)
AND
Must contain at least 50 percent whole grains with the remaining grains being either enriched or whole grains.
8
Whole Grain Options
Brown rice, wild rice, quinoa, bulgur (cracked wheat), oats, whole-grain barley, millet, triticale, amaranth, cornmeal (including blue), corn masa flour, whole wheat macaroni (pasta) products, whole wheat bread products (
i.e.,
pita, English muffin, bagels, naan), soft corn or whole wheat tortillas, buckwheat, teff, kamut, sorghum, wheat berries without added sugars, fats, oils, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium). May be instant-, quick-, or regular-cooking.
State agencies have the option to authorize other intact whole grain options without added sugars, fats, oils, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium).
Corn meal (including blue) must conform to FDA Standard of Identity 21 CFR 137.260
aligning with USDA School Meal Guidance.
Soft corn or whole wheat tortillas. Soft corn tortillas made from ground masa flour (corn flour) using traditional processing methods are WIC-eligible,
e.g.,
whole corn, corn (masa), whole ground corn, corn masa flour, masa harina, and white corn flour. For whole wheat tortillas, “whole wheat flour” must be the only flour listed in the ingredient list. States may offer tortillas made with folic acid-fortified corn masa flour.
Whole wheat macaroni (pasta) products. Must conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR 139.138) and have no added sugars, fats, oils, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium). “Whole wheat flour” and/or “whole durum wheat flour” must be the only flours listed in the ingredient list. Other shapes and sizes that otherwise meet the FDA Standard of Identity for whole wheat macaroni (pasta) products (21 CFR 139.138), and have no added sugars, fats, oils, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium), are also allowed (
e.g.,
whole wheat rotini, and whole wheat penne).
Fish (canned)
4
Light tuna (must conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR 161.190));
Salmon (Pacific salmon must conform to FDA standard of identity (21 CFR 161.170));
Sardines; and
Mackerel (N. Atlantic
Scomber scombrus,
Chub Pacific
Scomber japonicas
)
9
May be packed in water or oil. Pack may include bones or skin. Only boneless varieties of fish may be provided to children at State agency option. Added sauces and flavorings,
e.g.,
tomato sauce, mustard, lemon, are authorized at the State agency's option. May be regular or lower in sodium content.
Mature Legumes, Peanut Butter, and Peanut Butter Substitutions:
Mature Legumes (dry beans and peas)
10
Any type of mature dry beans, peas, or lentils in dry-packaged and canned
4
forms. Examples include but are not limited to black beans, black-eyed peas, garbanzo beans (chickpeas), great northern beans, white beans (navy and pea beans), kidney beans, mature lima (“butter beans”), fava beans, mung beans, pinto beans, soybeans/edamame, split peas, lentils, and refried beans. Does not include green beans or green peas. All categories exclude soups. May not contain added sugars, fats, oils, vegetables, fruits, or meat as purchased. Canned legumes may be regular or lower in sodium content.
11
Baked beans may only be provided for participants with limited cooking facilities.
11
Peanut Butter
Peanut butter and reduced-fat peanut butter must conform to FDA Standard of Identity (21 CFR 164.150); creamy or chunky, regular, or reduced-fat, salted or unsalted forms are allowed. Peanut butters with added marshmallows, honey, jelly, chocolate, or similar ingredients are not authorized.
Nut and Seed Butters
Must provide comparable nutritive value to peanut butter (
i.e.,
protein and iron).
May be creamy or chunky, regular, or reduced-fat, salted or unsalted forms are allowed. Nut and seed butter with added marshmallows, honey, jelly, chocolate, or similar ingredients are not authorized.
Infant Foods:
Infant Cereal
Infant cereal must contain a minimum of 45 mg of iron per 100 g of dry cereal.
12
Infant Fruits
Any variety of single ingredient commercial infant food fruit without added sugars, starches, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium). Texture may range from strained through diced. The fruit must be listed as the first ingredient.
13
Infant Vegetables
Any variety of single ingredient commercial infant food vegetables without added sugars, starches, or salt (
i.e.,
sodium). Texture may range from strained through diced. The vegetable must be listed as the first ingredient.
14
Infant Meat
Any variety of commercial infant food meat or poultry as a single major ingredient, with added broth or gravy. Added sugars or salt (
i.e.,
sodium) are not allowed. Texture may range from pureed through diced.
15
Note:
FDA = Food and Drug Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Foods must comply with labeling requirements consistent with 21 CFR parts 130 and 101.
1
The following are not considered a WIC-eligible nutritional: Formulas used solely for the purpose of enhancing nutrient intake, managing body weight, or addressing picky eaters or used for a condition other than a qualifying condition (
e.g.,
vitamin pills, weight control products, etc.); medicines or drugs as defined by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act as amended; enzymes, herbs, or botanicals; oral rehydration fluids or electrolyte solutions; flavoring or thickening agents; and feeding utensils or devices (
e.g.,
feeding tubes, bags, pumps) designed to administer a WIC-eligible formula.
2
All authorized milks must conform to FDA Standards of Identity for milks as defined by 21 CFR part 131 and meet WIC's requirements for vitamin fortification as specified in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section. Additional authorized milks include, but are not limited to calcium-fortified, lactose-reduced, organic, and UHT pasteurized milks. Other milks are permitted at the State agency's discretion provided that the State agency determines that the milk meets the minimum requirements for authorized milk.
3
Processed refers to frozen, canned (see footnote 4 to this table 4), or dried.
4
Canned refers to processed food items in cans or other shelf-stable containers,
e.g.,
jars, pouches.
5
Fresh herbs, cut at the root or with the root intact, are authorized. The following are not authorized: spices and dried herbs; seeds; potted plants with vegetables, fruits or herbs; creamed vegetables or vegetables with added sauces; fresh fruits and/or vegetables packaged with dips, sauces, or glazes; mixed vegetables containing noodles, nuts, or sauce packets; vegetable-grain (
e.g.,
pasta, rice) mixtures; fruit-nut mixtures; breaded vegetables; fruits and vegetables for purchase on salad bars; peanuts or other nuts; ornamental and decorative fruits and vegetables such as chili peppers or garlic on a string, gourds, painted pumpkins, fruit baskets, and decorative blossoms and flowers; and foods containing fruits such as blueberry muffins and other baked goods. Home-canned and home-preserved fruits and vegetables are not authorized.
6
Excludes catsup or other condiments; pickled vegetables; olives; soups; juices; and fruit leathers and fruit roll-ups. Canned tomato sauce, tomato paste, salsa, and spaghetti sauce without added sugar, fats, or oils are authorized.
7
State agencies have the option to allow only lower sodium canned vegetables for purchase with the cash-value voucher.
8
One of the following criteria must be met to confirm the product provides 50% or more whole grains: (1) product labeling contains the FDA health claim “Diet rich in whole grain foods and other plant foods and low in total fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol may reduce the risk of heart disease and some cancers” OR “Diets rich in whole grain foods and other plant foods, and low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may help reduce the risk of heart disease”; (2) meets the “rule of three” criteria (
i.e.,
the first ingredient (or second after water) must be whole grain, and the next two grain ingredients (if any) must be whole grains, enriched grains, bran or germ; (3) the manufacturer provides written documentation that the product contains 50% or more whole grains by weight.
9
King mackerel is not authorized.
10
Mature dry beans, peas, or lentils in dry-packaged and canned forms are authorized under the mature legume category. Immature varieties of fresh or canned beans and frozen beans of any type (immature or mature) are authorized for purchase with the cash-value voucher only. Juices are provided as a separate WIC food category and are not authorized under the fruit and vegetable category.
11
The following are not authorized in the mature legume category: soups; immature varieties of legumes, such as those used in canned green peas, green beans, snap beans, yellow beans, and wax beans; baked beans with meat, e.g., beans and franks; beans containing added sugars (except for baked beans), fats, oils, meats, fruits, or vegetables.
12
Infant cereals containing infant formula, milk, fruit, or other non-cereal ingredients are not allowed.
13
Mixtures with cereal or infant food desserts (
e.g.,
peach cobbler) are not authorized; however, combinations of single ingredients (
e.g.,
apple-banana) and combinations of single ingredients of fruits and/or vegetables (
e.g.,
apples and squash) are allowed.
14
Combinations of single ingredients (
e.g.,
peas and carrots) and combinations of single ingredients of fruits and/or vegetables (
e.g.,
apples and squash) are allowed. Mixed vegetables with white potato as an ingredient (
e.g.,
mixed vegetables) are authorized.
15
Infant food combinations (
e.g.,
meat and vegetables) and dinners (
e.g.,
spaghetti and meatballs) are not allowed.
(f)
USDA purchase of commodity foods.
(1) At the request of a State agency, FNS may purchase commodity foods for the State agency using funds allocated to the State agency. The commodity foods purchased and made available to the State agency must be equivalent to the foods specified in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section.
(2) The State agency must:
(i) Distribute the commodity foods to its local agencies or participants; and
(ii) Ensure satisfactory storage facilities and conditions for the commodity foods, including documentation of proper insurance.
(g)
Infant formula manufacturer registration.
Infant formula manufacturers supplying formula to the WIC Program must be registered with the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
). Such manufacturers wishing to bid for a State contract to supply infant formula to the Program must certify with the State health department that their formulas comply with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and regulations in this chapter issued pursuant to the Act.
(h)
Rounding up.
State agencies may round up to the next whole container for either infant formula or infant foods (infant cereal, fruits, vegetables, and meat). State agencies that use the rounding up option must calculate the amount of infant formula or infant foods provided according to the requirements and methodology as described in this section.
(1)
Infant formula.
State agencies must use the maximum monthly allowance of reconstituted fluid ounces of liquid concentrate infant formula as specified in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section as the full nutritional benefit (FNB) provided by infant formula for each food package category and infant feeding option (
e.g.,
Food Package IA fully formula fed, IA-FF (see paragraph (e)(1) of this section)).
(i) For State agencies that use rounding up of infant formula, the FNB is determined over the timeframe (the number of months) that the participant receives the food package. In any given month of the timeframe, the monthly issuance of reconstituted fluid ounces of infant formula may exceed the maximum monthly allowance or fall below the FNB; however, the cumulative average over the timeframe may not fall below the FNB without individual tailoring to allow “up to” amounts to support breastfeeding. In addition, the State agency must:
(A) Use the methodology described in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section for calculating and dispersing the rounding up option;
(B) Issue infant formula in whole containers that are all the same size; and
(C) Disperse the number of whole containers as evenly as possible over the timeframe with the largest monthly issuances given in the beginning of the timeframe.
(ii) The methodology to calculate rounding up and dispersing infant formula to the next whole container over the food package timeframe is as follows:
(A) Multiply the FNB amount for the appropriate food package and feeding option (e.g., Food Package IA fully formula fed, IA-FF (see paragraph (e)(1) of this section)) by the timeframe the participant will receive the food package to determine the total amount of infant formula to be provided.
(B) Divide the total amount of infant formula to be provided by the yield of the container (in reconstituted fluid ounces) issued by the State agency to determine the total number of containers to be issued during the timeframe that the food package is prescribed.
(C) If the number of containers to be issued does not result in a whole number of containers, the State agency must round up to the next whole container in order to issue whole containers.
(2)
Infant foods.
(i) State agencies may use the rounding up option to the next whole container of infant food (infant cereal, fruits, vegetables, and meat) when the maximum monthly allowance cannot be issued due to varying container sizes of authorized infant foods.
(ii) State agencies that use the rounding up option for infant foods must:
(A) Use the methodology described in paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section for calculating and dispersing the rounding up option;
(B) Issue infant foods in whole containers; and
(C) Disperse the number of whole containers as evenly as possible over the timeframe (the number of months the participant will receive the food package).
(iii) The methodology to round up and disperse infant food is as follows:
(A) Multiply the maximum monthly allowance for the infant food by the timeframe the participant will receive the food package to determine the total amount of food to be provided.
(B) Divide the total amount of food provided by the container size issued by the State agency (
e.g.,
ounces) to determine the total number of food containers to be issued during the timeframe that the food package is prescribed.
(C) If the number of containers to be issued does not result in a whole number of containers, the State agency must round up to the next whole container in order to issue whole containers.
(i)
Plans for cultural substitutions.
(1) The State agency may submit to FNS a plan for substitution of food(s) acceptable for use in the Program in addition to the supplemental foods outlined in (see paragraph (e)(12) of this section) to allow for different cultural eating patterns. The plan shall provide the State agency's justification, including a specific explanation of the cultural eating pattern and other information necessary for FNS to evaluate the plan as specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.
(2) FNS will evaluate a State agency's plan for substitution of foods for different cultural eating patterns based on the following criteria:
(i) Any proposed substitute food must be nutritionally equivalent or superior to the food it is intended to replace.
(ii) The proposed substitute food must be widely available to participants in the areas where the substitute is intended to be used.
(iii) The cost of the substitute food must be assessed and comparable to the cost of the food it is intended to replace.
(3) FNS will make a determination on the proposed plan based on the evaluation criteria specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, as appropriate. The State agency shall substitute foods only after receiving the written approval of FNS.
[89 FR 28518, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 246.11
Nutrition education.
(a)
General.
(1) Nutrition education including breastfeeding promotion and support shall be considered a benefit of the Program and shall be made available at no cost to the participant. Nutrition education including breastfeeding promotion and support, shall be designed to be easily understood by participants, and it shall bear a practical relationship to participant nutritional needs, household situations, and cultural preferences including information on how to select food for themselves and their families as well as the maximum monthly allowances of authorized supplemental foods to which they are entitled as a Program participant.
(2) The State agency shall ensure that nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, as appropriate, is made available to all participants. Nutrition education may be provided through the local agencies directly, or through arrangements made with other agencies. At the time of certification, the local agency shall stress the positive, long-term benefits of nutrition education and encourage the participant to attend and participate in nutrition education activities.
However, individual participants shall not be denied supplemental foods for failure to attend or participate in nutrition education activities.
(3) As an integral part of nutrition education, the State agency shall ensure that local agencies provide drug and other harmful substance abuse information to all pregnant, postpartum, and breastfeeding women and to parents or caretakers of infants and children participating in the program. Drug and other harmful substance abuse information may also be provided to pregnant, postpartum, and breastfeeding women and to parents or caretakers of infants and children participating in local agency services other than the Program.
(b)
Goals.
Nutrition education including breastfeeding promotion and support, shall be designed to achieve the following two broad goals:
(1) Emphasize the relationship between nutrition, physical activity and health with special emphasis on the nutritional needs of pregnant, postpartum, and breastfeeding women, infants and children under five years of age, and raise awareness about the dangers of using drugs and other harmful substances during pregnancy and while breastfeeding.
(2) Assist the individual who is at nutritional risk in improving health status and achieving a positive change in dietary and physical activity habits, and in the prevention of nutrition-related problems through optimal use of the supplemental foods and other nutritious foods. This is to be taught in the context of the ethnic, cultural and geographic preferences of the participants and with consideration for educational and environmental limitations experienced by the participants.
(c)
State agency responsibilities.
The State agency shall perform the following activities in carrying out nutrition education responsibilities, including breastfeeding promotion and support,:
(1) Develop and coordinate the nutrition education component of Program operations with consideration of local agency plans, needs and available nutrition education resources.
(2) Provide in-service training and technical assistance for professional and para-professional personnel involved in providing nutrition education to participants at local agencies. The State agency shall also provide training on the promotion and management of breastfeeding to staff at local agencies who will provide information and assistance on this subject to participants.
(3) Identify or develop resources and educational materials for use in local agencies, including breastfeeding promotion and instruction materials, taking reasonable steps to include materials in languages other than English in areas where a significant number or proportion of the population needs the information in a language other than English, considering the size and concentration of such population and, where possible, the reading level of participants.
(4) Develop and implement procedures to ensure that nutrition education is offered to all adult participants and to parents and guardians of infant or child participants, as well as child participants, whenever possible.
(5) Monitor local agency activities to ensure compliance with provisions set forth in paragraphs (c)(7), (d), and (e) of this section.
(6) Establish standards for participant contacts that ensure adequate nutrition education in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(7) Establish standards for breastfeeding promotion and support which include, at a minimum, the following:
(i) A policy that creates a positive clinic environment which endorses breastfeeding as the preferred method of infant feeding;
(ii) A requirement that each local agency designate a staff person to coordinate breastfeeding promotion and support activities;
(iii) A requirement that each local agency incorporate task-appropriate breastfeeding promotion and support training into orientation programs for new staff involved in direct contact with WIC clients; and
(iv) A plan to ensure that women have access to breastfeeding promotion and support activities during the prenatal and postpartum periods.
(8) Determine if local agencies or clinics can share nutrition educational materials with institutions participating in the Child and Adult Care Food Program established under section 17 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1766) at no cost to that program, if a written materials sharing agreement exists between the relevant agencies.
(d)
Local agency responsibilities.
Local agencies shall perform the following activities in carrying out their nutrition education responsibilities, including breastfeeding promotion and support,:
(1) Make nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, available or enter into an agreement with another agency to make nutrition education available to all adult participants, and to parents or caretakers of infant and child participants, and whenever possible and appropriate, to child participants. Nutrition education may be provided through the use of individual or group sessions. Educational materials designed for Program participants may be utilized to provide education to pregnant, postpartum, and breastfeeding women and to parents or caretakers of infants and children participating in local agency services other than the program.
(2) Develop an annual local agency nutrition education plan, including breastfeeding promotion and support, consistent with the State agency's nutrition education component of Program operations and in accordance with this part and FNS guidelines. The local agency shall submit its nutrition education plan to the State agency by a date specified by the State agency.
(e)
Participant contacts.
(1) The nutrition education including breastfeeding promotion and support, contacts shall be made available through individual or group sessions which are appropriate to the individual participant's nutritional needs. All pregnant participants shall be encouraged to breastfeed unless contraindicated for health reasons.
(2) During each six-month certification period, at least two nutrition contacts shall be made available to all adult participants and the parents or caretakers of infant and child participants, and wherever possible, the child participants themselves.
(3) Nutrition education contacts shall be made available at a quarterly rate to parents or caretakers of infant and child participants certified for a period in excess of six months. Nutrition education contacts shall be scheduled on a periodic basis by the local agency, but such contacts do not necessarily need to take place in each quarter of the certification period.
(4) The local agency shall document in each participant's certification file that nutrition education has been given to the participant in accordance with State agency standards, except that the second or any subsequent nutrition education contact during a certification period that is provided to a participant in a group setting may be documented in a masterfile. Should a participant miss a nutrition education appointment, the local agency shall, for purposes of monitoring and further education efforts, document this fact in the participant's file, or, at the local agency's discretion, in the case of a second or subsequent missed contact where the nutrition education was offered in a group setting, document this fact in a master file.
(5) An individual care plan shall be provided for a participant based on the need for such plan as determined by the competent professional authority, except that any participant, parent, or caretaker shall receive such plan upon request.
(6) Contacts shall be designed to meet different cultural and language needs of Program participants.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985; 50 FR 8098, Feb. 28, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 11507, Feb. 26, 1993; 59 FR 11503, Mar. 11, 1994; 65 FR 53528, Sept. 5, 2000; 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 73 FR 11312, Mar. 3, 2008; 76 FR 59889, Sept. 28, 2011; 89 FR 28528, Apr. 18, 2024]

# Subpart E—State Agency Provisions
§ 246.12
Food delivery methods.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth design and operational requirements for food delivery systems. In recognition of emergent electronic benefit transfer (EBT) technology, FNS may,
on a case-by-case basis, modify regulatory provisions to the extent FNS determines the particular EBT system provides adequate safeguards that serve the purpose of the provisions being modified. By October 1, 2020, each State agency shall implement EBT statewide, unless granted an exemption under paragraph (w)(2) of this section.
(1)
Management.
The State agency is responsible for the fiscal management of, and accountability for, food delivery systems under its jurisdiction. The State agency may permit only authorized vendors, farmers and farmers' markets, home food delivery contractors, and direct distribution sites to accept food instruments and cash-value vouchers.
(2)
Design.
The State agency must design all food delivery systems to be used by its local agencies.
(3)
FNS oversight.
FNS may, for a stated cause and by written notice, require revision of a proposed or operating food delivery system and will allow a reasonable time for the State agency to effect such a revision.
(4)
2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
All contracts or agreements entered into by the State or local agency for the management or operation of food delivery systems must conform to the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(b)
Uniform food delivery systems.
The State agency may operate up to four types of food delivery systems under its jurisdiction—retail, home delivery, direct distribution, or EBT. Each system must be procedurally uniform throughout the jurisdiction of the State agency and must ensure adequate participant access to supplemental foods. When used, food instruments must be uniform within each type of system.
(c)
No charge for authorized supplemental foods.
The State agency must ensure that participants receive their authorized supplemental foods free of charge.
(d)
Compatibility of food delivery system.
The State agency must ensure that the food delivery system(s) selected is compatible with the delivery of health and nutrition education, and breastfeeding counseling services to participants.
(e)
Retail food delivery systems: General.
Retail food delivery systems are systems in which participants, parents or caretakers of infant and child participants, and proxies obtain authorized supplemental foods by submitting a food instrument or cash-value voucher to an authorized vendor.
(f)
Retail food delivery systems: Food instrument and cash-value voucher requirements
—(1)
General.
State agencies using retail food delivery systems must use food instruments and cash-value vouchers that comply with the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(2)
Printed food instruments and cash-value vouchers.
Each printed food instrument and cash-value voucher must clearly bear on its face the following information:
(i)
Authorized supplemental foods.
The supplemental foods authorized to be obtained with the food instrument or cash-value voucher;
(ii)
First date of use.
The first date on which the food instrument or cash-value voucher may be used to obtain supplemental foods;
(iii)
Last date of use.
The last date on which the food instrument or cash-value vouchers may be used to obtain authorized supplemental foods. This date must be a minimum of 30 days from the first date on which it may be used or in the month of February, 28 or 29 days, except for the participant's first month of issuance, when it may be the end of the month or cycle for which the food instrument or cash-value voucher is valid. Rather than entering a specific last date of use on each instrument or cash-value voucher, all instruments or cash-value vouchers may be printed with a notice that the participant must transact them within a specified number of days after the first date on which the food instrument or cash-value voucher may be used;
(iv)
Redemption period.
The date by which the vendor must submit the food instrument or cash-value voucher for redemption. This date must be no more than 60 days from the first date on which the food instrument or cash-value voucher may be used. If the date
is fewer than 60 days, then the State agency must ensure that the allotted time provides the vendor sufficient time to submit the food instrument or cash-value voucher for redemption without undue burden;
(v)
Serial number.
A unique and sequential serial number;
(vi)
Purchase price.
A space for the purchase price to be entered. At the discretion of the State agency, a maximum price may be printed on the food instrument that is higher than the expected purchase price of the authorized supplemental foods for which it will be used, but that is low enough to protect against potential loss of funds. When a maximum price is printed on the food instrument, the space for the purchase price must be clearly distinguishable from the maximum price. For example, the words “purchase price” or “actual amount of sale” could be printed larger and in a different area of the food instrument than the maximum price; and
(vii)
Signature space.
A space where participants, parents or caretakers of infant or child participants, or proxies must sign.
(3)
Vendor identification.
The State agency must implement procedures to ensure each food instrument and cash-value voucher submitted for redemption can be identified by the vendor or farmer that submitted the food instrument or cash-value voucher. Each vendor operated by a single business entity must be identified separately. The State agency may identify vendors by requiring that all authorized vendors stamp their names and/or enter a vendor identification number on all food instruments or cash-value vouchers prior to submitting them for redemption.
(4)
Split tender transactions.
The State agency must implement procedures that allow the participant, authorized representative or proxy to pay the difference when a fruit and vegetable purchase exceeds the value of the cash-value vouchers.
(g)
Retail food delivery systems: Vendor authorization
—(1)
General.
The State agency must authorize an appropriate number and distribution of vendors in order to ensure the lowest practicable food prices consistent with adequate participant access to supplemental foods and to ensure effective State agency management, oversight, and review of its authorized vendors.
(2)
Vendor limiting criteria.
The State agency may establish criteria to limit the number of stores it authorizes. The State agency must apply its limiting criteria consistently throughout its jurisdiction. Any vendor limiting criteria used by the State agency must be included in the State Plan in accordance with § 246.4(a)(14)(ii).
(3)
Vendor selection criteria.
The State agency must develop and implement criteria to select stores for authorization. The State agency must apply its selection criteria consistently throughout its jurisdiction. The State agency may reassess any authorized vendor at any time during the vendor's agreement period using the vendor selection criteria in effect at the time of the reassessment and must terminate the agreements with those vendors that fail to meet them. The vendor selection criteria must include the following categories and requirements and must be included in the State Plan in accordance with § 246.4(a)(14)(ii).
(i)
Minimum variety and quantity of supplemental foods.
The State agency must establish minimum requirements for the variety and quantity of supplemental foods that a vendor applicant must stock to be authorized. These requirements include that the vendor stock at least two different fruits, three different vegetables, and at least one whole grain cereal authorized by the State agency. The State agency may not authorize a vendor applicant unless it determines that the vendor applicant meets these minimums. The State agency may establish different minimums for different vendor peer groups. The State agency may not authorize a vendor applicant unless it determines that the vendor applicant obtains infant formula only from sources included on the State agency's list described in paragraph (g)(11) of this section.
(ii)
Business integrity.
The State agency must consider the business integrity of a vendor applicant. In determining the business integrity of a vendor applicant, the State agency may rely solely on facts already known to it and
representations made by the vendor applicant on its vendor application. The State agency is not required to establish a formal system of background checks for vendor applicants. Unless denying authorization of a vendor applicant would result in inadequate participant access, the State agency may not authorize a vendor applicant if during the last six years the vendor applicant or any of the vendor applicant's current owners, officers, or managers have been convicted of or had a civil judgment entered against them for any activity indicating a lack of business integrity. Activities indicating a lack of business integrity include fraud, antitrust violations, embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, and obstruction of justice. The State agency may add other types of convictions or civil judgments to this list.
(iii)
Current SNAP disqualification or civil money penalty for hardship.
Unless denying authorization of a vendor applicant would result in inadequate participant access, the State agency may not authorize a vendor applicant that is currently disqualified from SNAP or that has been assessed a SNAP civil money penalty for hardship and the disqualification period that would otherwise have been imposed has not expired.
(iv)
Provision of incentive items.
The State agency may not authorize or continue the authorization of an above-50-percent vendor, or make payments to an above-50-percent vendor, which provides or indicates an intention to provide prohibited incentive items to customers. Evidence of such intent includes, but is not necessarily limited to, advertising the availability of prohibited incentive items.
(A) The State agency may approve any of the following incentive items to be provided by above-50-percent vendors to customers, at the discretion of the State agency:
(
1
) Food, merchandise, or services obtained at no cost to the vendor, subject to documentation;
(
2
) Food, merchandise, or services of nominal value, i.e., having a per item cost of less than $2, subject to documentation;
(
3
) Food sales and specials which involve no cost or less than $2 in cost to the vendor for the food items involved, subject to documentation, and do not result in a charge to a WIC food instrument for foods in excess of the foods listed on the food instrument;
(
4
) Minimal customary courtesies of the retail food trade, such as helping the customer to obtain an item from a shelf or from behind a counter, bagging food for the customer, and assisting the customer with loading the food into a vehicle.
(B) The following incentive items are prohibited for above-50-percent vendors to provide to customers:
(
1
) Services which result in a conflict of interest or the appearance of such conflict for the above-50-percent vendor, such as assistance with applying for WIC benefits;
(
2
) Lottery tickets provided to customers at no charge or below face value;
(
3
) Cash gifts in any amount for any reason;
(
4
) Anything made available in a public area as a complimentary gift which may be consumed or taken without charge;
(
5
) An allowable incentive item provided more than once per customer per shopping visit, regardless of the number of customers or food instruments involved, unless the incentive items had been obtained by the vendor at no cost or the total value of multiple incentive items provided during one shopping visit would not exceed the less-than-$2 nominal value limit;
(
6
) Food, merchandise or services of greater than nominal value provided to the customer;
(
7
) Food, merchandise sold to customers below cost, or services purchased by customers below fair market value;
(
8
) Any kind of incentive item which incurs a liability for the WIC Program;
(
9
) Any kind of incentive item which violates any Federal, State, or local law or regulations.
(C) For-profit goods or services offered by the above-50-percent vendor to WIC participants at a fair market value based on comparable for-profit
goods or services of other businesses are not incentive items subject to approval or prohibition, except that such goods or services must not constitute a conflict of interest or result in a liability for the WIC Program.
(4)
Vendor selection criteria: competitive price.
The State agency must establish a vendor peer group system and distinct competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels for each peer group. The State agency must use the competitive price criteria to evaluate the prices a vendor applicant charges for supplemental foods as compared to the prices charged by other vendor applicants and authorized vendors, and must authorize vendors selected from among those that offer the program the most competitive prices. The State agency must consider a vendor applicant's shelf prices or the prices it bids for supplemental foods, which may not exceed its shelf prices. In establishing competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels, the State agency must consider participant access by geographic area. The State agency must inform all vendors of the criteria for peer groups, and must inform each individual vendor of its peer group assignment.
(i)
Vendors that meet the above-50-percent criterion.
Vendors that derive more than 50 percent of their annual food sales revenue from WIC food instruments, and new vendor applicants expected to meet this criterion under guidelines approved by FNS, are defined as above-50-percent vendors. Each State agency annually must implement procedures approved by FNS to identify authorized vendors and vendor applicants as either above-50-percent vendors or regular vendors, in accordance with paragraphs (g)(4)(i)(E) and (g)(4)(i)(F) of this section. The State agency must receive FNS certification of its vendor cost containment system under section 246.12(g)(4)(vi) prior to authorizing any above-50-percent vendors. The State agency that chooses to authorize any above-50-percent vendors:
(A) Must distinguish these vendors from other authorized vendors in its peer group system or its alternative cost containment system approved by FNS by establishing separate peer groups for above-50-percent vendors or by placing above-50-percent vendors in peer groups with other vendors and establishing distinct competitive price selection criteria and allowable reimbursement levels for the above-50-percent vendors;
(B) Must reassess the status of new vendors within six months after authorization to determine whether or not the vendors are above-50-percent vendors, and must take necessary follow-up action, such as terminating vendor agreements or reassigning vendors to the appropriate peer group;
(C) Must compare above-50-percent vendors' prices against the prices of vendors that do not meet the above-50-percent criterion in determining whether the above-50-percent vendors have competitive prices and in establishing allowable reimbursement levels for such vendors; and
(D) Must ensure that the prices of above-50-percent vendors do not inflate the competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels for the peer groups or result in higher total food costs if program participants transact their food instruments at above-50-percent vendors rather than at other vendors that do not meet the above-50-percent criterion. To comply with this requirement, the State agency must compare the average cost of each type of food instrument redeemed by above-50-percent vendors against the average cost of the same type of food instrument redeemed by regular vendors. The average cost per food instrument may be weighted to reflect the relative proportion of food instruments redeemed by each category of vendors in the peer group system. The State agency must compute statewide average costs per food instrument at least quarterly to monitor compliance with this requirement. If average payments per food instrument for above-50-percent vendors exceed average payments per food instrument to regular vendors, then the State agency must take necessary action to ensure compliance, such as adjusting payment levels. Where EBT systems are in use, it may be more appropriate to compare prices of individual WIC food items to ensure that average payments to above-50-percent vendors do not exceed
average payments for the same food item to comparable vendors. If FNS determines that a State agency has failed to ensure that above-50-percent vendors do not result in higher costs to the program than if participants transact their food instruments at regular vendors, FNS will establish a claim against the State agency to recover excess food funds expended and will require remedial action. A State agency may exclude partially-redeemed food instruments from a quarterly cost neutrality assessment based on an empirical methodology approved by FNS. A State agency may not exclude food instruments from the quarterly cost neutrality assessment based on a rate of partially-redeemed food instruments.
(E) Must determine whether vendor applicants are expected to be above-50-percent vendors. The State agency must ask vendor applicants whether they expect to derive more than 50 percent of their annual revenue from the sale of food items from transactions involving WIC food instruments. This question applies whether or not the State agency chooses to authorize above-50-percent vendors. A vendor who answers in the affirmative must be treated as an above-50-percent vendor. The State agency must further assess a vendor who answers in the negative, by first calculating WIC redemptions as a percent of total food sales in existing WIC-authorized stores owned by the vendor applicant. Second, the State agency must calculate or request from the vendor applicant the percentage of anticipated food sales by type of payment,
i.e.
, cash, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, WIC, and credit/debit card. Third, the State agency must review either the inventory invoices for food items, or the actual food items present at the preauthorization visit required by paragraph (g)(5) of this section, or both. Fourth, the State agency must determine whether WIC authorization is required in order for the store to open for business. If the vendor would be expected to be an above-50-percent vendor under any of these criteria, then the vendor must be treated as an above-50-percent vendor. State agencies may use additional data sources and methodologies, if approved by FNS.
(F) Must determine whether a currently authorized vendor meets the above-50-percent criterion, based on the State agency's calculation of WIC redemptions as a percent of the vendor's total foods sales for the same period. If WIC redemptions are more than 50 percent of the total food sales, the vendor must be deemed to be an above-50-percent vendor. As an initial step in identifying above-50-percent vendors, the State agency may compare each vendor's WIC redemptions to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program redemptions for the same period. If more than one WIC State agency authorizes a particular vendor, then each State agency must obtain and add the WIC redemptions for each State agency that authorizes the vendor to derive the total WIC redemptions. If Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program redemptions exceed WIC redemptions, no further assessment is required since the vendor would not be an above-50-percent vendor. For vendors whose WIC redemptions exceed their Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program redemptions, or if this comparison of redemptions was not made, the State agency must obtain from these vendors a statement of the total amount of revenue derived from the sale of foods that could be purchased using Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits. The State agency must also obtain from these vendors documentation (such as tax documents or other verifiable documentation) to support the amount of food sales claimed by the vendor. After evaluating the documentation received from the vendor, the State agency must calculate WIC redemptions as a percent of total food sales and classify the vendor as meeting or not meeting the above-50- percent criterion. State agencies may use additional methods, if approved by FNS.
(ii)
Implementing effective peer groups.
The State agency's methodology for establishing a vendor peer group system must include the following:
(A) At least two criteria for establishing peer groups, one of which must be a measure of geography, such as metropolitan or other statistical areas
that form distinct labor and products markets, unless the State agency receives FNS approval to use a single criterion;
(B) Routine collection of vendor shelf prices at least every six months following authorization to monitor vendor compliance with paragraphs (g)(4)(i)(C), (g)(4)(ii)(C), and (g)(4)(iii) of this section and to ensure State agency policies and procedures dependent on shelf price data are efficient and effective. FNS may grant an exemption from this shelf price collection requirement if the State agency demonstrates to FNSs' satisfaction that an alternative methodology for monitoring vendor compliance with paragraphs (g)(4)(i)(C), (g)(4)(ii)(C), and (g)(4)(iii) of this section is efficient and effective and other State agency policies and procedures are not dependent on frequent collection of shelf price data. Such exemption would remain in effect until the State agency no longer meets the conditions on which the exemption was based, until FNS revokes the exemption, or for three years, whichever occurs first;
(C) Assessment of the effectiveness of the peer groupings and competitive price criteria at least every three years and modification, as necessary, to enhance system performance. The State agency may change a vendor's peer group whenever the State agency determines that placement in an alternate peer group is warranted.
(iii)
Subsequent price increases.
The State agency must establish procedures to ensure that a vendor selected for participation in the program does not, subsequent to selection, increase prices to levels that would make the vendor ineligible for authorization.
(iv)
Exceptions to competitive price criteria.
The State agency may except from the competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels pharmacy vendors that supply only exempt infant formula and/or WIC-eligible nutritionals, and non-profit vendors for which more than 50 percent of their annual revenue from food sales consists of revenue derived from WIC food instruments. A State agency that elects to exempt non-profit vendors from competitive price criteria and/or allowable reimbursements levels must notify FNS, in writing, at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the exemption. The State agency's notification must indicate the reason for the exemption, including whether the vendor is needed to ensure participant access, why other vendors that are subject to competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels cannot provide the required supplemental foods, the benefits to the program of exempting the non-profit vendor from the competitive price criteria and/or allowable reimbursement levels, the criteria the State agency used to assess the competitiveness of the non-profit vendor's prices, and how the State agency will determine the reimbursement level for the non-profit vendor. This notification requirement does not apply to State agency contracts and agreements with non-profit health and/or human service agencies or organizations.
(v)
Exemptions from the vendor peer group system requirement.
With prior written approval from FNS, a State agency may use a vendor cost containment approach other than a peer group system if it meets certain conditions. A State agency that obtains an exemption from the peer group requirement still must establish competitive pricing criteria for vendor selection and allowable reimbursement levels. An exemption from the peer group requirement would remain in effect until the State agency no longer meets the conditions on which the exemption was based, until FNS revokes the exemption, or for three years, whichever occurs first. During the period of the exemption, the State agency must provide annually to FNS documentation that it either authorizes no above-50-percent vendors, or that such vendors' redemptions continue to represent less than five percent of total WIC redemptions, depending on the terms of the exemption. The conditions for obtaining an exemption from the vendor peer group system are as follows:
(A) The State agency chooses not to authorize any vendors that derive more than 50 percent of their revenue from food sales from WIC food instruments, and the State agency demonstrates to FNS that establishing a vendor peer group system would be inconsistent
with efficient and effective operation of the program, or that its alternative cost containment system would be as effective as a peer group system; or
(B) The State agency determines that food instruments redeemed by vendors that meet the above-50-percent criterion comprise less than five percent of the total WIC redemptions in the State in the fiscal year prior to a fiscal year in which the exemption is effective; and the State agency demonstrates to FNS that its alternative vendor cost containment system would be as effective as a vendor peer group system and would not result in higher costs if program participants redeem food instruments at vendors that meet the above-50-percent criterion rather than at vendors that do not meet this criterion.
(vi)
Cost containment certification.
If a State agency elects to authorize any above-50-percent vendors, the State agency must submit information, in accordance with guidance provided by FNS, to demonstrate that its competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels do not result in average payments per food instrument to these vendors that are higher than average payments per food instrument to comparable vendors that are not above-50-percent vendors. To calculate average payments per food instrument, the State agency must include either all food instruments redeemed by all authorized vendors or a representative sample of the redeemed food instruments. The State agency must add the redemption amounts for all redeemed food instruments of the same type and divide the sum by the number of food instruments of that type. If the State agency does not designate food instruments by type, it must calculate the average payment for each distinct combination of foods prescribed on the food instrument. The State agency may calculate average payments per food instrument type for groups of vendors that meet the above-50-percent criterion and comparable vendors, or the State agency may calculate average payments for each food instrument type for each vendor. State agencies with EBT systems must compare the average cost of each WIC food purchased by participants at above-50-percent vendors with the average cost of each food purchased from comparable vendors. If FNS determines, based on its review of the information provided by the State agency and any other relevant data, that the requirements in this paragraph have been met, FNS will certify that the State agency's competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels established for above-50-percent vendors do not result in higher average payments per food instrument (or higher costs for each WIC food item in EBT systems). If the State agency's methodology for establishing competitive price criteria and allowable reimbursement levels fails to meet the requirement of this section regarding average food instrument payments to above-50-percent vendors, FNS will disapprove the State agency's request to authorize above-50-percent vendors. At least every three years following initial certification, the State agency must submit information which demonstrates that it continues to meet the requirements of this section relative to average payments to above-50-percent vendors. FNS may require annual updates of selected food instrument redemption data.
(vii)
Limitation on private rights of action.
The competitive pricing provisions of this paragraph do not create a private right of action.
(5)
On-site preauthorization visit.
The State agency must conduct an on-site visit prior to or at the time of a vendor's initial authorization.
(6)
Sale of store to circumvent WIC sanction.
The State agency may not authorize a vendor applicant if the State agency determines the store has been sold by its previous owner in an attempt to circumvent a WIC sanction. The State agency may consider such factors as whether the store was sold to a relative by blood or marriage of the previous owner(s) or sold to any individual or organization for less than its fair market value.
(7)
Impact on small businesses.
The State agency is encouraged to consider the impact of authorization decisions on small businesses.
(8)
Application periods.
The State agency may limit the periods during which applications for vendor authorization will be accepted and processed,
except that applications must be accepted and processed at least once every three years. The State agency must develop procedures for processing vendor applications outside of its timeframes when it determines there will be inadequate participant access unless additional vendors are authorized.
(9)
Data collection at authorization.
At the time of application, the State agency must collect the vendor applicant's SNAP authorization number if the vendor applicant is authorized in that program. In addition, the State agency must collect the vendor applicant's current shelf prices for supplemental foods.
(10)
List of infant formula wholesalers, distributors, and retailers licensed under State law or regulations, and infant formula manufacturers registered with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
The State agency must provide a list in writing or by other effective means to all authorized WIC retail vendors of the names and addresses of infant formula wholesalers, distributors, and retailers licensed in the State in accordance with State law (including regulations), and infant formula manufacturers registered with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that provide infant formula, on at least an annual basis.
(i)
Notification to vendors.
The State agency is required to notify vendors that they must purchase infant formula only from a source included on the State agency's list, or from a source on another State agency's list if the vendor's State agency permits this, and must only provide such infant formula to participants in exchange for food instruments specifying infant formula. For the purposes of paragraph (g)(11) of this section, “infant formula” means
Infant formula, Contract brand infant formula
and
Non-contract brand infant formula
as defined in § 246.2, and infant formula covered by a waiver granted under § 246.16a(e).
(ii)
Type of license.
If more than one type of license applies, the State agency may choose which one to use.
(iii)
Exclusions from list.
The State agency may not exclude a State-licensed entity from the list except when:
(A) Specifically required or authorized by State law or regulations; or
(B) The entity does not carry infant formula.
(h)
Retail food delivery systems: Vendor agreements
—(1)
General
—(i)
Entering into agreements.
The State agency must enter into written agreements with all authorized vendors. The agreements must be for a period not to exceed three years. The agreement must be signed by a representative who has legal authority to obligate the vendor and a representative of the State agency. When the vendor representative is obligating more than one vendor, the agreement must specify all vendors covered by the agreement. When more than one vendor is specified in the agreement, the State agency may add or delete an individual vendor without affecting the remaining vendors. The State agency must require vendors to reapply at the expiration of their agreements and must provide vendors with not less than 15 days advance written notice of the expiration of their agreements.
(ii)
Delegation to local agencies.
The State agency may delegate to its local agencies the authority to sign vendor agreements if the State agency indicates its intention to do so in its State Plan in accordance with § 246.4(a)(14)(iii). In such cases, the State agency must provide supervision and instruction to ensure the uniformity and quality of local agency activities.
(2)
Standard vendor agreement.
The State agency must use a standard vendor agreement throughout its jurisdiction, although the State agency may make exceptions to meet unique circumstances provided that it documents the reasons for such exceptions.
(3)
Vendor agreement provisions.
The vendor agreement must contain the following specifications, although the State agency may determine the exact wording to be used:
(i)
Acceptance of food instruments and cash value vouchers.
The vendor may accept food instruments and cash-value vouchers only from participants, parents or caretakers of infant and child participants, or proxies.
(ii)
No substitutions, cash, credit, refunds, or exchanges.
The vendor may
provide only the authorized supplemental foods listed on the food instrument and cash-value voucher.
(A) The vendor may not provide unauthorized food items, nonfood items, cash, or credit (including rain checks) in exchange for food instruments or cash-value vouchers. The vendor may not provide refunds or permit exchanges for authorized supplemental foods obtained with food instruments or cash-value vouchers, except for exchanges of an identical authorized supplemental food item when the original authorized supplemental food item is defective, spoiled, or has exceeded its “sell by,” “best if used by,” or other date limiting the sale or use of the food item. An identical authorized supplemental food item means the exact brand and size as the original authorized supplemental food item obtained and returned by the participant.
(B) The vendor may provide only the authorized infant formula which the vendor has obtained from sources included on the list described in paragraph (g)(11) of this section to participants in exchange for food instruments specifying infant formula.
(iii)
Treatment of participants, parents/caretakers, and proxies.
The vendor must offer program participants, parents or caretakers of infant of child participants, and proxies the same courtesies offered to other customers.
(iv)
Time periods for transacting food instruments and cash-value vouchers.
The vendor may accept a food instrument or cash-value voucher only within the specified time period.
(v)
Purchase price on food instruments and cash-value vouchers.
The vendor must ensure that the purchase price is entered on food instruments and cash-value vouchers in accordance with the procedures described in the vendor agreement. The State agency has the discretion to determine whether the vendor or the participant enters the purchase price. The purchase price must include only the authorized supplemental food items actually provided and must be entered on the food instrument or cash-value voucher before it is signed.
(vi)
Signature on food instruments and cash-value vouchers.
For printed food instruments and cash-value vouchers, the vendor must ensure the participant, parent or caretaker of an infant or child participant, or proxy signs the food instrument or cash-value voucher in the presence of the cashier. In EBT systems, a Personal Identification Number (PIN) may be used in lieu of a signature.
(vii)
Sales tax prohibition.
The vendor may not collect sales tax on authorized supplemental foods obtained with food instruments, or cash-value vouchers.
(viii)
Food instrument and cash-value voucher redemption.
The vendor must submit food instruments and cash-value vouchers for redemption in accordance with the redemption procedures described in the vendor agreement. The vendor may redeem a food instrument or cash-value voucher only within the specified time period. As part of the redemption procedures, the State agency may make price adjustments to the purchase price on food instruments submitted by the vendor for redemption to ensure compliance with the price limitations applicable to the vendor. As part of the redemption procedures, the State agency must establish and apply limits on the amount of reimbursement allowed for food instruments based on a vendor's peer group and competitive price criteria. In setting allowable reimbursement levels, the State agency must consider participant access in a geographic area and may include a factor to reflect fluctuations in wholesale prices. In establishing allowable reimbursement levels for above-50-percent vendors the State agency must ensure that reimbursements do not result in higher food costs than if participants transacted their food instruments at vendors that are not above-50-percent vendors, or in higher average payments per food instrument to above-50-percent vendors than average payments to comparable vendors. The State agency may make price adjustments to the purchase price on food instruments submitted by the vendor for redemption to ensure compliance with the allowable reimbursement level applicable to the vendor. A vendor's failure to remain price competitive is cause for termination of the vendor agreement, even if actual payments to the vendor are within the maximum reimbursement amount. The
State agency may exempt vendors that supply only exempt infant formula and/or WIC-eligible nutritionals and non-profit above-50-percent vendors from the allowable reimbursement limits.
(ix)
Vendor claims.
When the State agency determines the vendor has committed a vendor violation that affects the payment to the vendor, the State agency will delay payment or establish a claim. The State agency may delay payment or establish a claim in the amount of the full purchase price of each food instrument or cash-value voucher that contained the vendor overcharge or other error. The State agency will provide the vendor with an opportunity to justify or correct a vendor overcharge or other error. The vendor must pay any claim assessed by the State agency. In collecting a claim, the State agency may offset the claim against current and subsequent amounts to be paid to the vendor. In addition to denying payment or assessing a claim, the State agency may sanction the vendor for vendor overcharges or other errors in accordance with the State agency's sanction schedule.
(x)
No charge for authorized supplemental foods or restitution from participants.
The vendor may not charge participants, parents or caretakers of infant and child participants, or proxies for authorized supplemental foods obtained with food instruments or cash-value vouchers. In addition, the vendor may not seek restitution from these individuals for food instruments or cash-value vouchers not paid or partially paid by the State agency.
(xi)
Split tender for cash-value vouchers.
The vendor must allow the participant, authorized representative or proxy to pay the difference when a fruit and vegetable purchase exceeds the value of the cash-value vouchers (also known as a split tender transaction).
(xii)
Training.
At least one representative of the vendor must participate in training annually. Annual vendor training may be provided by the State agency in a variety of formats, including newsletters, videos, and interactive training. The State agency will have sole discretion to designate the date, time, and location of all interactive training, except that the State agency will provide the vendor with at least one alternative date on which to attend such training.
(xiii)
Vendor training of staff.
The vendor must inform and train cashiers and other staff on program requirements.
(xiv)
Accountability for owners, officers, managers, and employees.
The vendor is accountable for its owners, officers, managers, agents, and employees who commit vendor violations.
(xv)
Monitoring.
The vendor may be monitored for compliance with program requirements.
(xvi)
Recordkeeping.
The vendor must maintain inventory records used for Federal tax reporting purposes and other records the State agency may require for the period of time specified by the State agency in the vendor agreement. Upon request, the vendor must make available to representatives of the State agency, the Department, and the Comptroller General of the United States, at any reasonable time and place for inspection and audit, all food instruments and cash-value vouchers in the vendor's possession and all program-related records.
(xvii)
Termination.
The State agency will immediately terminate the agreement if it determines that the vendor has provided false information in connection with its application for authorization. Either the State agency or the vendor may terminate the agreement for cause after providing advance written notice of a period of not less than 15 days to be specified by the State agency.
(xviii)
Change in ownership or location or cessation of operations.
The vendor must provide the State agency advance written notification of any change in vendor ownership, store location, or cessation of operations. In such instances, the State agency will terminate the vendor agreement, except that the State agency may permit vendors to move short distances without terminating the agreement. The State agency has the discretion to determine the length of advance notice required for vendors reporting changes under this provision, whether a change in location qualifies as a short distance, and whether a change in business structure constitutes a change in ownership.
(xix)
Sanctions.
In addition to claims collection, the vendor may be sanctioned for vendor violations in accordance with the State agency's sanction schedule. Sanctions may include administrative fines, disqualification, and civil money penalties in lieu of disqualification. The State agency must notify a vendor in writing when an investigation reveals an initial incidence of a violation for which a pattern of incidences must be established in order to impose a sanction, before another such incidence is documented, unless the State agency determines, in its discretion, on a case-by-case basis, that notifying the vendor would compromise an investigation.
(xx)
Conflict of interest.
The State agency will terminate the agreement if the State agency identifies a conflict of interest, as defined by applicable State laws, regulations, and policies, between the vendor and the State agency or its local agencies.
(xxi)
Criminal penalties.
A vendor who commits fraud or abuse in the Program is liable to prosecution under applicable Federal, State or local laws. Those who have willfully misapplied, stolen or fraudulently obtained program funds will be subject to a fine of not more than $25,000 or imprisonment for not more than five years or both, if the value of the funds is $100 or more. If the value is less than $100, the penalties are a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
(xxii)
Not a license/property interest.
The vendor agreement does not constitute a license or a property interest. If the vendor wishes to continue to be authorized beyond the period of its current agreement, the vendor must reapply for authorization. If a vendor is disqualified, the State agency will terminate the vendor's agreement, and the vendor will have to reapply in order to be authorized after the disqualification period is over. In all cases, the vendor's new application will be subject to the State agency's vendor selection criteria and any vendor limiting criteria in effect at the time of the reapplication.
(xxiii)
Compliance with vendor agreement, statutes, regulations, policies, and procedures.
The vendor must comply with the vendor agreement and Federal and State statutes, regulations, policies, and procedures governing the Program, including any changes made during the agreement period.
(xxiv)
Nondiscrimination regulations.
The vendor must comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of Departmental regulations (parts 15, 15a and 15b of this title).
(xxv)
Compliance with vendor selection criteria.
The vendor must comply with the vendor selection criteria throughout the agreement period, including any changes to the criteria. Using the current vendor selection criteria, the State agency may reassess the vendor at any time during the agreement period. The State agency will terminate the vendor agreement if the vendor fails to meet the current vendor selection criteria.
(xxvi)
Reciprocal SNAP disqualification for WIC Program disqualifications.
Disqualification from the WIC Program may result in disqualification as a retailer in SNAP. Such disqualification may not be subject to administrative or judicial review under SNAP.
(xxvii)
EBT minimum lane coverage.
Point of Sale (POS) terminals used to support the WIC Program shall be deployed in accordance with the minimum lane coverage provisions of § 246.12(z)(2). The State agency may remove excess terminals if actual redemption activity warrants a reduction consistent with the redemption levels outlined in § 246.12(z)(2)(i) and (z)(2)(ii).
(xxviii)
EBT third-party processing costs and fees.
The vendor shall not charge to the State agency any third-party commercial processing costs and fees incurred by the vendor from EBT multi-function equipment. Commercial transaction processing costs and fees imposed by a third-party processor that the vendor elects to use to connect to the EBT system of the State shall be borne by the vendor.
(xxix)
EBT interchange fees.
The State agency shall not pay or reimburse the vendor for interchange fees related to WIC EBT transactions.
(xxx)
EBT ongoing maintenance and operational costs.
The State agency shall not pay for ongoing maintenance, processing fees or operational costs for vendor systems and equipment used to
support WIC EBT after the State agency has implemented WIC EBT statewide, unless the equipment is used solely for the WIC Program or the State agency determines the vendor using multi-function equipment is necessary for participant access. This provision also applies to authorized farmers and farmers' markets. Costs shared by a WIC State agency will be proportional to the usage for the WIC Program.
(xxxi)
Compliance with EBT operating rules, standards and technical requirements.
The vendor must comply with the Operating rules, standards and technical requirements established by the State agency.
(4)
Purchase price and redemption procedures.
The State agency must describe in the vendor agreement its purchase price and redemption procedures. The redemption procedures must ensure that the State agency does not pay a vendor more than the price limitations applicable to the vendor.
(5)
Sanction schedule.
The State agency must include its sanction schedule in the vendor agreement or as an attachment to it. The sanction schedule must include all mandatory and State agency vendor sanctions and must be consistent with paragraph (l) of this section. If the sanction schedule is in State law or regulations or in a document provided to the vendor at the time of authorization, the State agency instead may include an appropriate cross-reference in the vendor agreement.
(6)
Actions subject to administrative review and review procedures.
The State agency must include the adverse actions a vendor may appeal and those adverse actions that are not subject to administrative review. The State agency also must include a copy of the State agency's administrative review procedures in the vendor agreement or as an attachment to it or must include a statement that the review procedures are available upon request and the applicable review procedures will be provided along with an adverse action subject to administrative review. These items must be consistent with § 246.18. If these items are in State law or regulations or in a document provided to the vendor at the time of authorization, the State agency instead may include an appropriate cross-reference in the vendor agreement.
(7)
Notification of program changes.
The State agency must notify vendors of changes to Federal or State statutes, regulations, policies, or procedures governing the Program before the changes are implemented. The State agency should give as much advance notice as possible.
(8)
Allowable and prohibited incentive items for above-50-percent vendors.
The vendor agreement for an above-50-percent vendor, or another document provided to the vendor and cross-referenced in the agreement, must include the State agency's policies and procedures for allowing and prohibiting incentive items to be provided by an above-50-percent vendor to customers, consistent with paragraph (g)(3)(iv) of this section.
(i) The State agency must provide written approval or disapproval (including by electronic means such as electronic mail or facsimile) of requests from above-50-percent vendors for permission to provide allowable incentive items to customers;
(ii) The State agency must maintain documentation for the approval process, including invoices or similar documents showing that the cost of each item is either less than the $2 nominal value limit, or obtained at no cost, unless the State agency provides the vendor with a list of pre-approved incentive items at the time of authorization; and
(iii) The State agency must define prohibited incentive items.
(i)
Retail food delivery systems: Vendor training
—(1)
General requirements.
The State agency must provide training annually to at least one representative of each vendor. Prior to or at the time of a vendor's initial authorization, and at least once every three years thereafter, the training must be in an interactive format that includes a contemporaneous opportunity for questions and answers. The State agency must designate the date, time, and location of the interactive training and the audience (e.g., managers, cashiers, etc.) to which the training is directed. The State agency must provide vendors with at least one alternative date on
which to attend interactive training. Examples of acceptable vendor training include on-site cashier training, off-site classroom-style train-the-trainer or manager training, a training video, and a training newsletter. All vendor training must be designed to prevent program errors and noncompliance and improve program service.
(2)
Content.
The annual training must include instruction on the purpose of the Program, the supplemental foods authorized by the State agency, the minimum varieties and quantities of authorized supplemental foods that must be stocked by vendors, the requirement that vendors obtain infant formula only from sources included on a list provided by the State agency, the procedures for transacting and redeeming food instruments and cash-value vouchers, the vendor sanction system, the vendor complaint process, the claims procedures, the State agency's policies and procedures regarding the use of incentive items, and any changes to program requirements since the last training.
(3)
Delegation.
The State agency may delegate vendor training to a local agency, a contractor, or a vendor representative if the State agency indicates its intention to do so in its State Plan in accordance with § 246.4(a)(14)(xi). In such cases, the State agency must provide supervision and instruction to ensure the uniformity and quality of vendor training.
(4)
Documentation.
The State agency must document the content of and vendor participation in vendor training.
(j)
Retail food delivery systems: Monitoring vendors and identifying high-risk vendors
—(1)
General requirements.
The State agency must design and implement a system for monitoring its vendors for compliance with program requirements. The State agency may delegate vendor monitoring to a local agency or contractor if the State agency indicates its intention to do so in its State Plan in accordance with § 246.4(a)(14)(iv). In such cases, the State agency must provide supervision and instruction to ensure the uniformity and quality of vendor monitoring.
(2)
Routine monitoring.
The State agency must conduct routine monitoring visits on a minimum of five percent of the number of vendors authorized by the State agency as of October 1 of each fiscal year in order to survey the types and levels of abuse and errors among authorized vendors and to take corrective actions, as appropriate. The State agency must develop criteria to determine which vendors will receive routine monitoring visits and must include such criteria in its State Plan in accordance with § 246.4(a)(14)(iv).
(3)
Identifying high-risk vendors.
The State agency must identify high-risk vendors at least once a year using criteria developed by FNS and/or other statistically-based criteria developed by the State agency. FNS will not change its criteria more frequently than once every two years and will provide adequate advance notification of changes prior to implementation. The State agency may develop and implement additional criteria. All State agency-developed criteria must be approved by FNS.
(4)
Compliance investigations.
(i)
High-risk vendors.
The State agency must conduct compliance investigations of a minimum of five percent of the number of vendors authorized by the State agency as of October 1 of each fiscal year. The State agency must conduct compliance investigations on all high-risk vendors up to the five percent minimum. The State agency may count toward this requirement a compliance investigation of a high-risk vendor conducted by a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency. The State agency also may count toward this requirement a compliance investigation conducted by another WIC State agency provided that the State agency implements the option to establish State agency sanctions based on mandatory sanctions imposed by the other WIC State agency, as specified in paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section. A compliance investigation of a high-risk vendor may be considered complete when the State agency determines that a sufficient number of compliance buys have been conducted to provide evidence of program noncompliance, when two compliance buys have been conducted in which no program violations are found, or when an inventory audit has been completed.
(ii)
Randomly selected vendors.
If fewer than five percent of the State agency's authorized vendors are identified as high-risk, the State agency must randomly select additional vendors on which to conduct compliance investigations sufficient to meet the five-percent requirement. A compliance investigation of a randomly selected vendor may be considered complete when the State agency determines that a sufficient number of compliance buys have been conducted to provide evidence of program noncompliance, when two compliance buys are conducted in which no program violations are found, or when an inventory audit has been completed.
(iii)
Prioritization.
If more than five percent of the State agency's vendors are identified as high-risk, the State agency must prioritize such vendors so as to perform compliance investigations of those determined to have the greatest potential for program noncompliance and/or loss of funds.
(5)
Monitoring report.
For each fiscal year, the State agency must send FNS a summary of the results of its vendor monitoring containing information stipulated by FNS. The report must be sent by February 1 of the following fiscal year. Plans for improvement in the coming year must be included in the State Plan in accordance with § 246.4(a)(14)(iv).
(6)
Documentation
—(i)
Monitoring visits.
The State agency must document the following information for all monitoring visits, including routine monitoring visits, inventory audits, and compliance buys:
(A) the date of the monitoring visit, inventory audit, or compliance buy;
(B) the name(s) and signature(s) of the reviewer(s); and
(C) the nature of any problem(s) detected.
(ii)
Compliance buys.
For compliance buys, the State agency must also document:
(A) the date of the buy;
(B) a description of the cashier involved in each transaction;
(C) the types and quantities of items purchased, current shelf prices or prices charged other customers, and price charged for each item purchased, if available. Price information may be obtained prior to, during, or subsequent to the compliance buy; and
(D) the final disposition of all items as destroyed, donated, provided to other authorities, or kept as evidence.
(k)
Retail food delivery systems: Vendor claims
—(1)
System to review food instruments and cash-value vouchers for vendor claims.
The State agency must design and implement a system to review food instruments and cash-value vouchers submitted by vendors for redemption to ensure compliance with the applicable price limitations and to detect questionable food instruments or cash-value vouchers, suspected vendor overcharges, and other errors. This review must examine either all or a representative sample of the food instruments and cash-value vouchers and may be done either before or after the State agency makes payments on the food instruments or cash-value vouchers. The review of food instruments must include a price comparison or other edit designed to ensure compliance with the applicable price limitations and to assist in detecting vendor overcharges. For printed food instruments and cash-value vouchers the system also must detect the following errors—purchase price missing; participant, parent/caretaker, or proxy signature missing; vendor identification missing; food instruments or cash-value vouchers transacted or redeemed after the specified time periods; and, as appropriate, altered purchase price. The State agency must take follow-up action within 120 days of detecting any questionable food instruments or cash-value vouchers, suspected vendor overcharges, and other errors and must implement procedures to reduce the number of errors when possible.
(2)
Delaying payment and establishing a claim.
When the State agency determines the vendor has committed a vendor violation that affects the payment to the vendor, the State agency must delay payment or establish a claim. Such vendor violations may be detected through compliance investigations, food instrument or cash-value voucher reviews, or other reviews or investigations of a vendor's operations. The State agency may delay payment or establish a claim in the amount of
the full purchase price of each food instrument or cash-value voucher that contained the vendor overcharge or other error.
(3)
Opportunity to justify or correct.
When payment for a food instrument or cash-value voucher is delayed or a claim is established, the State agency must provide the vendor with an opportunity to justify or correct the vendor overcharge or other error. If satisfied with the justification or correction, the State agency must provide payment or adjust the proposed claim accordingly.
(4)
Timeframe and offset.
The State agency must deny payment or initiate claims collection action within 90 days of either the date of detection of the vendor violation or the completion of the review or investigation giving rise to the claim, whichever is later. Claims collection action may include offset against current and subsequent amounts owed to the vendor.
(5)
Food instruments and cash-value vouchers redeemed after the specified period.
With justification and documentation, the State agency may pay vendors for food instruments and cash-value vouchers submitted for redemption after the specified period for redemption. If the total value of such food instruments or cash-value vouchers submitted at one time exceeds $500.00, the State agency must obtain the approval of the FNS Regional Office before payment.
(l)
Retail food delivery systems: Vendor sanctions
—(1)
Mandatory vendor sanctions
—(i)
Permanent disqualification.
The State agency must permanently disqualify a vendor convicted of trafficking in food instruments or cash-value vouchers or selling firearms, ammunition, explosives, or controlled substances (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) in exchange for food instruments or cash-value vouchers. A vendor is not entitled to receive any compensation for revenues lost as a result of such violation. If reflected in its State Plan, the State agency may impose a civil money penalty in lieu of a disqualification for this violation when it determines, in its sole discretion, and documents that:
(A) Disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access; or
(B) The vendor had, at the time of the violation, an effective policy and program in effect to prevent trafficking; and the ownership of the vendor was not aware of, did not approve of, and was not involved in the conduct of the violation.
(ii)
Six-year disqualification.
The State agency must disqualify a vendor for six years for:
(A) One incidence of buying or selling food instruments, or cash-value vouchers, for cash (trafficking); or
(B) One incidence of selling firearms, ammunition, explosives, or controlled substances as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802, in exchange for food instruments or cash-value vouchers.
(iii)
Three-year disqualification.
The State agency must disqualify a vendor for three years for:
(A) One incidence of the sale of alcohol or alcoholic beverages or tobacco products in exchange for food instruments or cash-value vouchers;
(B) A pattern of claiming reimbursement for the sale of an amount of a specific supplemental food item which exceeds the store's documented inventory of that supplemental food item for a specific period of time;
(C) A pattern of vendor overcharges;
(D) A pattern of receiving, transacting and/or redeeming food instruments or cash-value vouchers outside of authorized channels, including the use of an unauthorized vendor and/or an unauthorized person;
(E) A pattern of charging for supplemental food not received by the participant; or
(F) A pattern of providing credit or non-food items, other than alcohol, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, cash, firearms, ammunition, explosives, or controlled substances as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802, in exchange for food instruments or cash-value vouchers.
(iv)
One-year disqualification.
The State agency must disqualify a vendor for one year for:
(A) A pattern of providing unauthorized food items in exchange for food instruments or cash-value vouchers, including charging for supplemental
foods provided in excess of those listed on the food instrument; or
(B) A pattern of an above-50-percent vendor providing prohibited incentive items to customers as set forth in paragraph (g)(3)(iv) of this section, in accordance with the State agency's policies and procedures required by paragraph (h)(8) of this section.
(v)
Second mandatory sanction.
When a vendor, who previously has been assessed a sanction for any of the violations in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii) through (l)(1)(iv) of this section, receives another sanction for any of these violations, the State agency must double the second sanction. Civil money penalties may only be doubled up to the limits allowed under paragraph (l)(1)(x)(C) of this section.
(vi)
Third or subsequent mandatory sanction.
When a vendor, who previously has been assessed two or more sanctions for any of the violations listed in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii) through (l)(1)(iv) of this section, receives another sanction for any of these violations, the State agency must double the third sanction and all subsequent sanctions. The State agency may not impose civil money penalties in lieu of disqualification for third or subsequent sanctions for violations listed in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii) through (l)(1)(iv) of this section.
(vii)
Disqualification based on a SNAP disqualification.
The State agency must disqualify a vendor who has been disqualified from SNAP. The disqualification must be for the same length of time as SNAP disqualification, may begin at a later date than SNAP disqualification, and is not subject to administrative or judicial review under the WIC Program.
(viii)
Voluntary withdrawal or nonrenewal of agreement.
The State agency may not accept voluntary withdrawal of the vendor from the Program as an alternative to disqualification for the violations listed in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) through (l)(1)(iv) of this section, but must enter the disqualification on the record. In addition, the State agency may not use nonrenewal of the vendor agreement as an alternative to disqualification.
(ix)
Participant access determinations.
Prior to disqualifying a vendor for a SNAP disqualification pursuant to paragraph (l)(1)(vii) of this section or for any of the violations listed in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii) through (l)(1)(iv) of this section, the State agency must determine if disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access. The State agency must make the participant access determination in accordance with paragraph (l)(8) of this section. If the State agency determines that disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access, the State agency must impose a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification. However, as provided in paragraph (l)(1)(vi) of this section, the State agency may not impose a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification for third or subsequent sanctions for violations in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii) through (l)(1)(iv) of this section. The State agency must include documentation of its participant access determination and any supporting documentation in the file of each vendor who is disqualified or receives a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification.
(x)
Civil money penalty formula.
For each violation subject to a mandatory sanction, the State agency must use the following formula to calculate a civil money penalty imposed in lieu of disqualification:
(A) Determine the vendor's average monthly redemptions for at least the 6-month period ending with the month immediately preceding the month during which the notice of adverse action is dated;
(B) Multiply the average monthly redemptions figure by 10 percent (.10);
(C) Multiply the product from paragraph (l)(1)(x)(B) of this section by the number of months for which the store would have been disqualified. This is the amount of the civil money penalty, provided that the civil money penalty shall not exceed the maximum amount specified in § 3.91(b)(3)(v) of this title for each violation. For a violation that warrants permanent disqualification, the amount of the civil money penalty shall be the maximum amount specified in § 3.91(b)(3)(v) of this title for each violation. When during the course of a single investigation the State
agency determines a vendor has committed multiple violations, the State agency must impose a CMP for each violation. The total amount of civil money penalties imposed for violations investigated as part of a single investigation may not exceed the amount specified in § 3.91(b)(3)(v) of this title as the maximum penalty for violations occurring during a single investigation.
(xi)
Notification to FNS.
The State agency must provide the appropriate FNS office with a copy of the notice of adverse action and information on vendors it has either disqualified or imposed a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification for any of the violations listed in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) through (l)(1)(iv) of this section. This information must include the name of the vendor, address, identification number, the type of violation(s), and the length of disqualification or the length of the disqualification corresponding to the violation for which the civil money penalty was assessed, and must be provided within 15 days after the vendor's opportunity to file for a WIC administrative review has expired or all of the vendor's WIC administrative reviews have been completed.
(xii)
Multiple violations during a single investigation.
When during the course of a single investigation the State agency determines a vendor has committed multiple violations (which may include violations subject to State agency sanctions), the State agency must disqualify the vendor for the period corresponding to the most serious mandatory violation. However, the State agency must include all violations in the notice of administration action. If a mandatory sanction is not upheld on appeal, then the State agency may impose a State agency-established sanction.
(2)
State agency vendor sanctions.
(i)
General requirements.
The State agency may impose sanctions for vendor violations that are not specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) through (l)(1)(iv) of this section as long as such vendor violations and sanctions are included in the State agency's sanction schedule. State agency sanctions may include disqualifications, civil money penalties assessed in lieu of disqualification, and administrative fines. The total period of disqualification imposed for State agency violations investigated as part of a single investigation may not exceed one year. A civil money penalty or fine may not exceed a maximum amount specified in § 3.91(b)(3)(v) of this title for each violation. The total amount of civil money penalties and administrative fines imposed for violations investigated as part of a single investigation may not exceed an amount specified in § 3.91(b)(3)(v) of this title as the maximum penalty for violations occurring during a single investigation. A State agency vendor sanction must be based on a pattern of violative incidences.
(ii)
SNAP civil money penalty for hardship.
The State agency may disqualify a vendor that has been assessed a civil money penalty for hardship in SNAP, as provided under § 278.6 of this chapter. The length of such disqualification must correspond to the period for which the vendor would otherwise have been disqualified in SNAP. If a State agency decides to exercise this option, the State agency must:
(A) Include notification that it will take such disqualification action in its sanction schedule; and
(B) Determine if disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access in accordance with paragraph (l)(8) of this section. If the State agency determines that disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access, the State agency may not disqualify the vendor or impose a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification. The State agency must include documentation of its participant access determination and any supporting documentation in each vendor's file.
(iii)
A mandatory sanction by another WIC State agency.
The State agency may disqualify a vendor that has been disqualified or assessed a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification by another WIC State agency for a mandatory vendor sanction. The length of the disqualification must be for the same length of time as the disqualification by the other WIC State agency or, in the case of a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification assessed by the other WIC State agency, for the same length of time for which the vendor
would otherwise have been disqualified. The disqualification may begin at a later date than the sanction imposed by the other WIC State agency. If a State agency decides to exercise this option, the State agency must:
(A) Include notification that it will take such action in its sanction schedule; and
(B) Determine if disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access in accordance with paragraph (l)(8) of this section. If the State agency determines that disqualification of the vendor would result in inadequate participant access, the State agency must impose a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification, except that the State agency may not impose a civil money penalty in situations in which the vendor has been assessed a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification by the other WIC State agency. Any civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification must be calculated in accordance with paragraph (l)(2)(x) of this section. The State agency must include documentation of its participant access determination and any supporting documentation in each vendor's file.
(3)
Notification of violations.
The State agency must notify a vendor in writing when an investigation reveals an initial incidence of a violation for which a pattern of incidences must be established in order to impose a sanction, before another such incidence is documented, unless the State agency determines, in its discretion, on a case-by-case basis, that notifying the vendor would compromise an investigation. This notification requirement applies to the violations set forth in paragraphs (l)(1)(iii)(C) through (l)(1)(iii)(F), (l)(1)(iv), and (l)(2)(i) of this section.
(i) Prior to imposing a sanction for a pattern of violative incidences, the State agency must either provide such notice to the vendor, or document in the vendor file the reason(s) for determining that such notice would compromise an investigation.
(ii) The State agency may use the same method of notification which the State agency uses to provide a vendor with adequate advance notice of the time and place of an administrative review in accordance with § 246.18(b)(3).
(iii) If notification is provided, the State agency may continue its investigation after the notice of violation is received by the vendor, or presumed to be received by the vendor, consistent with the State agency's procedures for providing such notice.
(iv) All of the incidences of a violation occurring during the first compliance buy visit must constitute only one incidence of that violation for the purpose of establishing a pattern of incidences.
(v) A single violative incidence may only be used to establish the violations set forth in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii)(A), (l)(1)(ii)(B), and (l)(1)(iii)(A) of this section.
(4)
Administrative reviews.
The State agency must provide administrative reviews of sanctions to the extent required by § 246.18.
(5)
Installment plans.
The State agency may use installment plans for the collection of civil money penalties and administrative fines.
(6)
Failure to pay a civil money penalty.
If a vendor does not pay, only partially pays, or fails to timely pay a civil money penalty assessed in lieu of disqualification, the State agency must disqualify the vendor for the length of the disqualification corresponding to the violation for which the civil money penalty was assessed (for a period corresponding to the most serious violation in cases where a mandatory sanction included the imposition of multiple civil money penalties as a result of a single investigation).
(7)
Actions in addition to sanctions.
Vendors may be subject to actions in addition to the sanctions in this section, such as claims pursuant to paragraph (k) of this section and the penalties set forth in § 246.23(c) in the case of deliberate fraud.
(8)
Participant access determination criteria.
The State agency must develop participant access criteria. When making participant access determinations, the State agency must consider the availability of other authorized vendors in the same area as the violative vendor and any geographic barriers to using such vendors.
(9)
Termination of agreement.
When the State agency disqualifies a vendor, the State agency must also terminate the vendor agreement.
(m)
Home food delivery systems.
Home food delivery systems are systems in which authorized supplemental foods are delivered to the participant's home. Home food delivery systems must provide for:
(1)
Procurement.
Procurement of supplemental foods in accordance with § 246.24, which may entail measures such as the purchase of food in bulk lots by the State agency and the use of discounts that are available to States.
(2)
Accountability.
The accountable delivery of authorized supplemental foods to participants. The State agency must ensure that:
(i) Home food delivery contractors are paid only after the delivery of authorized supplemental foods to participants;
(ii) A routine procedure exists to verify the correct delivery of authorized supplemental foods to participants, and, at a minimum, such verification occurs at least once a month after delivery; and
(iii) Records of delivery of supplemental foods and bills sent or payments received for such supplemental foods are retained for at least three years. Federal, State, and local authorities must have access to such records.
(n)
Direct distribution food delivery systems.
Direct distribution food delivery systems are systems in which participants, parents or caretakers of infant or child participants, or proxies pick up authorized supplemental foods from storage facilities operated by the State agency or its local agencies. Direct distribution food delivery systems must provide for:
(1)
Storage and insurance.
Adequate storage and insurance coverage that minimizes the danger of loss due to theft, infestation, fire, spoilage, or other causes;
(2)
Inventory.
Adequate inventory control of supplemental foods received, in stock, and issued;
(3)
Procurement.
Procurement of supplemental foods in accordance with § 246.24, which may entail measures such as purchase of food in bulk lots by the State agency and the use of discounts that are available to States;
(4)
Availability.
The availability of program benefits to participants and potential participants who live at great distance from storage facilities; and
(5)
Accountability.
The accountable delivery of authorized supplemental foods to participants.
(o)
Participant parent/caretaker, proxy, vendor, farmer, farmers' market, and home food delivery contractor complaints.
The State agency must have procedures to document the handling of complaints by participants, parents or caretakers of infant or child participants, proxies, vendors, farmers, farmers' markets, home food delivery contractors, and direct distribution contractors. Complaints of civil rights discrimination must be handled in accordance with § 246.8(b).
(p)
Food instrument and cash-value voucher security.
The State agency must develop standards for ensuring the security of food instruments and cash-value vouchers from the time the food instruments and cash-value vouchers are created to the time they are issued to participants, parents/caretakers, or proxies. For pre-printed food instruments or cash-value vouchers, these standards must include maintenance of perpetual inventory records of food instruments or cash-value vouchers throughout the State agency's jurisdiction; monthly physical inventory of food instruments or cash-value vouchers on hand throughout the State agency's jurisdiction; reconciliation of perpetual and physical inventories of food instruments and cash-value vouchers; and maintenance of all food instruments and cash-value vouchers under lock and key, except for supplies needed for immediate use. For EBT and print-on-demand food instruments and cash-value vouchers, the standards must provide for the accountability and security of the means to manufacture and issue such food instruments and cash-value vouchers.
(q)
Food instrument and cash-value voucher disposition.
The State agency must account for the disposition of all food instruments and cash-value vouchers as either issued or voided, and as either redeemed or unredeemed. Redeemed food instruments and cash-
value vouchers must be identified as validly issued, lost, stolen, expired, duplicate, or not matching valid enrollment and issuance records. In an EBT system, evidence of matching redeemed food instruments to valid enrollment and issuance records may be satisfied through the linking of the Primary Account Number (PAN) associated with the electronic transaction to valid enrollment and issuance records. This process must be performed within 120 days of the first valid date for participant use of the food instruments and must be conducted in accordance with the financial management requirements of § 246.13. The State agency will be subject to claims as outlined in § 246.23(a)(4) for redeemed food instruments or cash-value vouchers that do not meet the conditions established in paragraph (q) of this section.
(r)
Issuance of food instruments, cash-value vouchers and authorized supplemental foods.
The State agency must:
(1)
Parents/caretakers and proxies.
Establish uniform procedures that allow parents and caretakers of infant and child participants and proxies to obtain and transact food instruments and cash-value vouchers or obtain authorized supplemental foods on behalf of a participant. In determining whether a particular participant or parent/caretaker should be allowed to designate a proxy or proxies, the State agency must require the local agency or clinic to consider whether adequate measures can be implemented to provide nutrition education and health care referrals to that participant or, in the case of an infant or child participant, to the participant's parent or caretaker;
(2)
Signature requirement.
Ensure that the participant, parent or caretaker of an infant or child participant, or proxy signs for receipt of food instruments, cash-value vouchers or authorized supplemental foods, except as provided in paragraph (r)(4) of this section;
(3)
Instructions.
Ensure that participants, parents or caretakers of infant and child participants, and proxies receive instructions on the proper use of food instruments and cash-value vouchers, or on the procedures for obtaining authorized supplemental foods when food instruments or cash-value vouchers are not used. The State agency must also ensure that participants, parents or caretakers of infant and child participants, and proxies are notified that they have the right to complain about improper vendor, farmer, farmers' markets, and home food delivery contractor practices with regard to program responsibilities;
(4)
Food instrument and cash-value voucher pick up.
Require participants, parents and caretakers of infant and child participants, and proxies to pick up food instruments and cash-value vouchers in person when scheduled for nutrition education or for an appointment to determine whether participants are eligible for a second or subsequent certification period. However, in all other circumstances the State agency may provide for issuance through an alternative means such as EBT or mailing, unless FNS determines that such actions would jeopardize the integrity of program services or program accountability. If a State agency opts to mail food instruments and cash-value vouchers, it must provide justification, as part of its alternative issuance system in its State Plan, as required in § 246.4(a)(21), for mailing food instruments and cash-value voucher to areas where SNAP benefits are not mailed. State agencies that opt to mail food instruments and cash-value vouchers must establish and implement a system that ensures the return of food instruments and cash-value vouchers to the State or local agency if a participant no longer resides or receives mail at the address to which the food instruments and cash-value vouchers were mailed; and
(5)
Maximum issuance of food instruments and cash-value voucher.
Ensure that no more than a three-month supply of food instruments and cash-value vouchers or a one-month supply of authorized supplemental foods is issued at any one time to any participant, parent or caretaker of an infant or child participant, or proxy.
(6)
Any authorized vendor.
Each State agency shall allow participants to receive supplemental foods from any vendor authorized by the State agency under retail delivery systems.
(s)
Payment to vendors, farmers and home food delivery contractors.
The
State agency must ensure that vendors, farmers and home food delivery contractors are paid promptly. Payment must be made within 60 days after valid food instruments or cash-value vouchers are submitted for redemption. Actual payment to vendors, farmers and home food delivery contractors may be made by local agencies.
(t)
Conflict of interest.
The State agency must ensure that no conflict of interest exists, as defined by applicable State laws, regulations, and policies, between the State agency and any vendor, farmer, farmers' markets, or home food delivery contractor, or between any local agency and any vendor, farmer, farmers' markets, or home food delivery contractor under its jurisdiction.
(u)
Participant violations and sanctions
—(1)
General requirements.
The State agency must establish procedures designed to control participant violations. The State agency also must establish sanctions for participant violations. Participant sanctions may include disqualification from the Program for a period of up to one year.
(2)
Mandatory disqualification.
(i)
General.
Except as provided in paragraphs (u)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, whenever the State agency assesses a claim of $1,000 or more, assesses a claim for dual participation, or assess a second or subsequent claim of any amount, the State agency must disqualify the participant for one year.
(ii)
Exceptions to mandatory disqualification.
The State agency may decide not to impose a mandatory disqualification if, within 30 days of receipt of the letter demanding repayment, full restitution is made or a repayment schedule is agreed on, or, in the case of a participant who is an infant, child, or under age 18, the State or local agency approves the designation of a proxy.
(iii)
Terminating a mandatory disqualification.
The State agency may permit a participant to reapply for the Program before the end of a mandatory disqualification period if full restitution is made or a repayment schedule is agreed upon or, in the case of a participant who is an infant, child, or under age 18, the State or local agency approves the designation of a proxy.
(3)
Warnings before sanctions.
The State agency may provide warnings before imposing participant sanctions.
(4)
Fair hearings.
At the time the State agency notifies a participant of a disqualification, the State agency must advise the participant of the procedures to follow to obtain a fair hearing pursuant to § 246.9.
(5)
Referral to law enforcement authorities.
When appropriate, the State agency must refer vendors, home food delivery contractors, farmers, farmers' markets and participants who violate program requirements to Federal, State, or local authorities for prosecution under applicable statutes.
(v)
Farmers and farmers' markets.
The State agency may authorize farmers, farmers' markets, and/or roadside stands to accept the cash-value voucher for eligible fruits and vegetables. The State agency must enter into written agreements with all authorized farmers and/or farmers' markets. The agreement must be signed by a representative who has legal authority to obligate the farmer or farmers' market and a representative of the State agency. The agreement must be for a period not to exceed 3 years. Only farmers or farmers' markets authorized by the State agency may redeem the fruit and vegetable cash-value voucher. The State agency must require farmers or farmers' markets to reapply at the expiration of their agreements and must provide farmers or farmers markets with not less than 15 days advance written notice of the expiration of the agreement.
(1) The agreement must include the following provisions, although the State agency may determine the exact wording. The farmer or farmers' market must:
(i) Assure that the cash-value voucher is redeemed only for eligible fruits and vegetables as defined by the State agency;
(ii) Provide eligible fruits and vegetables at the current price or less than the current price charged to other customers;
(iii) Accept the cash-value voucher within the dates of their validity and submit such vouchers for payment within the allowable time period established by the State agency;
(iv) Redeem the cash-value voucher in accordance with a procedure established by the State agency. Such procedure must include a requirement for the farmer or farmers' market to allow the participant, authorized representative or proxy to pay the difference when the purchase of fruits and vegetables exceeds the value of the cash-value vouchers (also known as a split tender transaction);
(v) Accept training on cash-value voucher procedures and provide training to any employees with cash-value voucher responsibilities on such procedures;
(vi) Agree to be monitored for compliance with program requirements, including both overt and covert monitoring;
(vii) Be accountable for actions of employees in the provision of authorized foods and related activities;
(viii) Pay the State agency for any cash-value vouchers transacted in violation of this agreement;
(ix) Offer WIC participants, parent or caretakers of child participants or proxies the same courtesies as other customers;
(x) Comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of USDA regulations as provided in § 248.7; and
(xi) Notify the State agency if any farmers' market ceases operation prior to the end of the authorization period.
(2) The farmer or farmers' market must not:
(i) Collect sales tax on cash-value voucher purchases;
(ii) Seek restitution from WIC participants, parent or caretakers of child participants or proxies for cash-value vouchers not paid or partially paid by the State agency;
(iii) Issue cash change for purchases that are in an amount less than the value of the cash-value voucher;
(3) Neither the State agency nor the farmer or farmers' market has an obligation to renew the agreement. The State agency, the farmer, or farmers' market may terminate the agreement for cause after providing advance written notification.
(4)
Farmer agreements for State agencies that do not authorize farmers.
Those State agencies which authorize farmers' markets but not individual farmers shall require authorized farmers' markets to enter into a written agreement with each farmer within the market that is authorized to accept cash-value vouchers. The State agency shall set forth the required terms for the written agreement as defined in § 246.12(v)(1) and (v)(2), and provide a sample agreement for use by the farmers' market.
(5) The State agency may deny payment to the farmer or farmers' market for improperly redeemed cash-value vouchers and may demand refunds for payments already made on improperly redeemed vouchers.
(6) The State agency may disqualify a farmer or farmers' market for WIC Program abuse. The farmer or farmers' market has the right to appeal a denial of an application to participate, a disqualification, or a program sanction by the State agency. Expiration of an agreement with a farmer or farmers' market and claims actions under § 246.23, are not appealable.
(7) A farmer or farmers' market which commits fraud or engages in other illegal activity is liable to prosecution under applicable Federal, State or local laws.
(8)
Monitoring farmers and farmers' markets.
(i) The State agency must design and implement a system for monitoring its authorized farmers and farmers' markets for compliance with program requirements. The State agency must document, at a minimum, the following information for all monitoring visits: name(s) of the farmer, farmers market, or roadside stand; name(s) and signature(s) of the reviewer(s); date of review; and nature of problem(s) detected.
(ii)
Compliance buys.
For compliance buys, the State agency must also document:
(A) The date of the buy;
(B) A description of the farmer (and farmers' market, as appropriate) involved in each transaction;
(C) The types and quantities of items purchased, current retail prices or prices charged other customers, and price charged for each item purchased, if available. Price information may be obtained prior to, during, or subsequent to the compliance buy; and
(D) The final disposition of all items as destroyed, donated, provided to other authorities, or kept as evidence.
(w)
EBT
—(1)
General.
All State agencies shall implement EBT statewide in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
EBT exemptions.
The Secretary may grant an exemption to the October 1, 2020 statewide implementation requirement. To be eligible for an exemption, a State agency shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary one or more of the following:
(i) There are unusual technological barriers to implementation;
(ii) Operational costs are not affordable within the nutrition services and administration grant of the State agency; or
(iii) It is in the best interest of the program to grant the exemption.
(3)
Implementation date.
If the Secretary grants a State agency an exemption, such exemption will remain in effect until: The State agency no longer meets the conditions on which the exemption was based; the Secretary revokes the exemption or for three years from the date the exemption was granted, whichever occurs first.
(x)
Electronic benefit requirements
—(1)
General.
State agencies using EBT shall issue an electronic benefit that complies with the requirements of paragraph (x)(2) of this section.
(2)
Electronic benefits.
Each electronic benefit must contain the following information:
(i)
Authorized supplemental foods.
The supplemental foods authorized by food category, subcategory and benefit quantity, to include the cash-value benefit;
(ii)
First date of use.
The first date of use on which the electronic benefit may be used to obtain authorized supplemental foods;
(iii)
Last date of use.
The last date on which the electronic benefit may be used to obtain authorized supplemental foods. This date must be a minimum of 30 days, or in the month of February 28 or 29 days, from the first date on which it may be used to obtain authorized supplemental foods except for the participant's first month of issuance when it may be the end of the month or cycle for which the electronic benefit is valid; and
(iv)
Benefit issuance identifier.
A unique and sequential number. This number enables the identification of each benefit change (addition, subtraction or update) made to the participant account.
(3)
Vendor identification.
The State agency shall ensure each EBT purchase submitted for electronic payment is matched to an authorized vendor, farmer, or farmers' market prior to authorizing payment. Each vendor operated by a single business entity must be identified separately.
(y)
EBT management and reporting.
(1) The State agency shall follow the Department Advance Planning Document (APD) requirements and submit Planning and Implementation APD's and appropriate updates, for Department approval for planning, development and implementation of initial and subsequent EBT systems.
(2) If a State agency plans to incorporate additional programs in the EBT system of the State, the State agency shall consult with State agency officials responsible for administering the programs prior to submitting the Planning APD (PAPD) document and include the outcome of those discussions in the PAPD submission to the Department for approval.
(3) Each State agency shall have an active EBT project by August 1, 2016. Active EBT project is defined as a formal process of planning, implementation, or statewide implementation of WIC EBT.
(4) Annually as part of the State plan, the State agency shall submit EBT project status reports. At a minimum, the annual status report shall contain:
(i) Until operating EBT statewide, an outline of the EBT implementation goals and objectives as part of the goals and objectives in § 246.4(a)(1), to demonstrate the State agency's progress toward statewide EBT implementation;
(ii) If operating EBT statewide, any information on future EBT changes and procurement updates affecting present operations; and
(iii) Such other information the Secretary may require.
(5) The State agency shall be responsible for EBT coordination and management.
(z)
EBT food delivery methods: Vendor requirements
—(1)
General.
State agencies using EBT for delivering benefits shall comply with the vendor requirements in paragraphs (g) through (l) of this section. In addition, State agencies shall comply with requirements that are detailed throughout this paragraph (z).
(2)
Minimum lane coverage.
The Point-of-Sale (POS) terminals, whether single-function equipment or multi-function equipment, shall be deployed as follows:
(i)
Superstores and supermarkets.
There will be one POS terminal for every $11,000 in monthly WIC redemption up to a total of four POS terminals, or the number of lanes in the location, whichever is less. At a minimum, terminals shall be installed for monthly WIC redemption threshold increments as follows: one terminal for $0 to $11,000; two terminals for $11,001 to $22,000; three terminals for $22,001 to $33,000; and four terminals for $33,001 and above. A State agency may utilize an alternative installation formula with Department approval. The monthly redemption levels used for the installation formula shall be the average redemptions based on a period of up to 12 months of prior redemption;
(ii)
All other vendors.
One POS terminal for every $8,000 in monthly redemption up to a total of four POS terminals, or the number of lanes in the location; whichever is less. At a minimum, terminals shall be installed for monthly WIC redemption thresholds as follows: one terminal for $0 to $8,000; two terminals for $8,001 to $16,000; three terminals for $16,001 to $24,000; and four terminals for $24,001 and above. A State agency may utilize an alternative installation formula with Department approval. The monthly redemption levels used for the installation formula shall be the average redemptions based on a period of up to 12 months of prior redemption;
(iii) The State agency shall determine the number of appropriate POS terminals for authorized farmers and farmers' markets;
(iv) For newly authorized WIC vendors deemed necessary for participant access by the State agency, the vendor shall be provided one POS terminal unless the State agency determines other factors in this location warrant additional terminals;
(v) Any authorized vendor who has been equipped with a POS terminal by the State agency may submit evidence additional terminals are necessary after the initial POS terminals are installed;
(vi) The State agency may provide authorized vendors with additional POS terminals above the minimum number required by this paragraph in order to permit WIC participants to obtain a shopping list or benefit balance, as long as the number of terminals provided does not exceed the number of lanes in the vendor location;
(vii) The State agency may remove excess POS terminals if actual redemption activity warrants a reduction consistent with the redemption levels outlined in paragraphs (z)(2)(i) through (ii) of this section.
(3)
Payment to vendors, farmers and farmers' markets.
The State agency shall ensure that vendors, farmers and farmers' markets are paid promptly. Payment must be made in accordance with the established Operating Rules and technical requirements after the vendor, farmer or farmers' market has submitted a valid electronic claim for payment.
(aa)
Imposition of costs on vendors, farmers and farmers' markets
—(1)
Cost prohibition.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a State agency shall not impose the costs of any single-function equipment or system required for EBT on any authorized vendor, farmers or farmers' markets in order to transact EBT.
(2)
Cost sharing.
If WIC Program equipment is multi-function equipment, the State agency shall develop cost sharing criteria with authorized WIC vendors, farmers and farmers' markets for costs associated with such equipment in accordance with Federal cost principles. Any cost sharing agreements shall be developed between a State agency and its vendors, farmers, or farmers' markets depending on the type, scope and capabilities of shared
equipment. The State agency must furnish its allocation and/or cost sharing methodology to the Department as part of the Advanced Planning Document for review and approval before incurring costs.
(3)
Fees
—(i)
Third-party processor costs and fees.
The State agency shall not pay or reimburse vendors, farmers or farmers' markets for third-party processing costs and fees for vendors, farmers, or farmers' markets that elect to accept EBT using multi-function equipment. The State agency or its agent shall not charge any fees to authorized vendors for use of single-function equipment.
(ii)
Interchange fees.
The State agency shall not pay or reimburse the vendor, farmer or farmers' markets for interchange fees on WIC EBT transactions.
(4)
Statewide operations.
After completion of statewide EBT implementation, the State agency shall not:
(i) Pay ongoing maintenance, processing fees or operational costs for any vendor, farmer or farmers' market utilizing multi-function systems and equipment, unless the State agency determines that the vendor is necessary for participant access. The State agency shall continue to pay ongoing maintenance, processing fees and operational costs of single-function equipment;
(ii) Authorize a vendor, farmer, or farmers' market that cannot successfully demonstrate EBT capability in accordance with State agency requirements, unless the State agency determines the vendor is necessary for participant access.
(bb)
EBT Technical standards and requirements.
(1) Each State agency, contractor and authorized vendor participating in the program shall follow and demonstrate compliance with:
(i) Operating rules, standards and technical requirements as established by the Secretary; and
(ii) Other industry standards identified by the Secretary.
(2) The State agency shall establish policy permitting the replacement of EBT cards and the transfer of participant benefit balances within no more than seven business days following notice by the participant or proxy to the State agency.
(3) The State agency shall establish procedures to provide customer service during non-business hours that enable participants or proxies to report a lost, stolen, or damaged card, report other card or benefit issues, receive information on the EBT food balance and receive the current benefit end date. The State agency shall respond to any report of a lost, stolen, or damaged card within one business day of the date of report. If a State agency seeks to implement alternatives to the minimum service requirements, the agency must submit the plan to FNS for approval.
(cc)
National universal product codes (UPC) database.
The national UPC database is to be used by all State agencies using EBT to deliver WIC food benefits.
[65 FR 83278, Dec. 29, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 29579, May 24, 2005; 70 FR 71722, Nov. 29, 2005; 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 73 FR 68995, Dec. 6, 2007; 73 FR 11312, Mar. 3, 2008; 74 FR 555, Jan. 6, 2009; 74 FR 51758, Oct. 8, 2009; 75 FR 15603, Mar. 30, 2010; 76 FR 59889, Sept. 28, 2011; 79 FR 12299, Mar. 4, 2014; 81 FR 10449, Mar. 1, 2016; 81 FR 18447, Mar. 31, 2016; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016; 89 FR 28528, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 246.13
Financial management system.
(a)
Disclosure of expenditures.
The State agency shall maintain a financial management system which provides accurate, current and complete disclosure of the financial status of the Program. This shall include an accounting for all property and other assets and all Program funds received and expended each fiscal year.
(b)
Internal control.
The State agency shall maintain effective control over and accountability for all Program grants and funds. The State agency must have effective internal controls to ensure that expenditures financed with Program funds are authorized and properly chargeable to the Program.
(c)
Record of expenditures.
The State agency shall maintain records which adequately identify the source and use of funds expended for Program activities. These records shall contain, but are not limited to, information pertaining to authorization, receipt of funds, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.
(d)
Payment of costs.
The State shall implement procedures which ensure
prompt and accurate payment of allowable costs, and ensure the allowability and allocability of costs in accordance with the cost principles and standard provisions of this part, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, and FNS guidelines and instructions.
(e)
Identification of obligated funds.
The State agency shall implement procedures which accurately identify obligated Program funds at the time the obligations are made.
(f)
Resolution of audit findings.
The State agency shall implement procedures which ensure timely and appropriate resolution of claims and other matters resulting from audit findings and recommendations.
(g)
Use of minority- and women-owned banks.
Consistent with the national goals of expanding opportunities for minority business enterprises, State and local agencies are encouraged to use minority- and women-owned banks.
(h)
Adjustment of expenditures.
The State agency must adjust projected expenditures to account for redeemed food instruments and for other changes as appropriate.
(i)
Transfer of cash.
The State agency shall have controls to minimize the time elapsing between receipt of Federal funds from the U.S. Department of Treasury and the disbursements of these funds for Program costs. In the Letter of Credit system, the State agency shall make drawdowns from the U.S. Department of Treasury's Regional Disbursing Office as close as possible to the actual date that disbursement of funds is made. Advances made by the State agency to local agencies shall also conform to these same standards.
(j)
Local agency financial management.
The State agency shall ensure that all local agencies develop and implement a financial management system consistent with requirements prescribed by FNS and the State agency pursuant to the requirements of this section.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985; 50 FR 8098, Feb. 28, 1985, as amended at 65 FR 83286, Dec. 29, 2000; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 246.14
Program costs.
(a)
General.
(1) The two kinds of allowable costs under the Program are “food costs” and “nutrition services and administration costs.” In general, costs necessary to the fulfillment of Program objectives are to be considered allowable costs. The two types of nutrition services and administration costs are:
(i)
Direct costs.
Those direct costs that are allowable under 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(ii)
Indirect costs.
Those indirect costs that are allowable under 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. When computing indirect costs, food costs may not be used in the base to which the indirect cost rate is applied. In accordance with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, a claim for indirect costs shall be supported by an approved allocation plan for the determination of allowable indirect costs.
(2) Program funds may not be used to pay for retroactive benefits. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section and §§ 246.16(g) and 246.16(h) of this part, funds allocated by FNS for food purchases may not be used to pay nutrition services and administration costs. However, nutrition services and administration funds may be used to pay for food costs.
(b)
What costs may I charge to the food grant?
(1) The State agency may use food funds for costs of:
(i) Acquiring supplemental foods provided to State or local agencies or participants, whichever receives the supplemental food first;
(ii) Warehousing supplemental foods; and
(iii) Purchasing and renting breast pumps.
(2) For costs to be allowable, the State agency must ensure that food costs do not exceed the customary sales price charged by the vendor, home food delivery contractor, or supplier in a direct distribution food delivery system. In addition, food costs may not exceed the price limitations applicable to the vendor.
(c)
Specified allowable nutrition services and administration costs.
Allowable nutrition services and administration (NSA) costs include the following:
(1) The cost of nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support which meets the requirements of § 246.11. During each fiscal year, each State agency shall expend, for nutrition education activities and breastfeeding promotion and support activities, an aggregate amount that is not less than the sum of one-sixth of the amount expended by the State agency for costs of NSA and an amount equal to its proportionate share of the national minimum expenditure for breastfeeding promotion and support activities. The amount to be spent on nutrition education shall be computed by taking one-sixth of the total fiscal year NSA expenditures. The amount to be spent by a State agency on breastfeeding promotion and support activities shall be an amount that is equal to at least its proportionate share of the national minimum breastfeeding promotion expenditure as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The national minimum expenditure for breastfeeding promotion and support activities shall be equal to $21 multiplied by the number of pregnant and breastfeeding women in the Program, based on the average of the last three months for which the Department has final data. On October 1, 1996 and each October 1 thereafter, the $21 will be adjusted annually using the same inflation percentage used to determine the national administrative grant per person. If the State agency's total reported nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support expenditures are less than the required amount of expenditures, FNS will issue a claim for the difference. The State agency may request prior written permission from FNS to spend less than the required portions of its NSA grant for either nutrition education or for breastfeeding promotion and support activities. FNS will grant such permission if the State agency has sufficiently documented that other resources, including in-kind resources, will be used to conduct these activities at a level commensurate with the requirements of this paragraph (c)(1). However, food costs used to purchase or rent breast pumps may not be used for this purpose. Nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, costs are limited to activities which are distinct and separate efforts to help participants understand the importance of nutrition to health. The cost of dietary assessments for the purpose of certification, the cost of prescribing and issuing supplemental foods, the cost of screening for drug and other harmful substance use and making referrals to drug and other harmful substance abuse services, and the cost of other health-related screening shall not be applied to the expenditure requirement for nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support activities. The Department shall advise State agencies regarding methods for minimizing documentation of the nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support expenditure requirement. Costs to be applied to the one-sixth minimum amount required to be spent on nutrition education and the target share of funds required to be spent on breastfeeding promotion and support include, but need not be limited to—
(i) Salary and other costs for time spent on nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support consultations whether with an individual or group;
(ii) The cost of procuring and producing nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support materials including handouts, flip charts, filmstrips, projectors, food models or other teaching aids, and the cost of mailing nutrition education or breastfeeding promotion and support materials to participants;
(iii) The cost of training nutrition or breastfeeding promotion and support educators, including costs related to conducting training sessions and purchasing and producing training materials;
(iv) The cost of conducting evaluations of nutrition education or breastfeeding promotion and support activities, including evaluations conducted by contractors;
(v) Salary and other costs incurred in developing the nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support portion of the State Plan and local agency nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support plans; and
(vi) The cost of monitoring nutrition education and breastfeeding promotion and support activities.
(2) The cost of Program certification, nutrition assessment and procedures and equipment used to determine nutritional risk, including the following:
(i) Laboratory fees incurred for up to two hematological tests for anemia per individual per certification period. The first test shall be to determine anemia status. The second test may be performed only in follow up to a finding of anemia when deemed necessary for health monitoring as determined by the WIC State agency;
(ii) Expendable medical supplies;
(iii) Medical equipment used for taking anthropometric measurements, such as scales, measuring boards, and skin fold calipers; and for blood analysis to detect anemia, such as spectrophotometers, hematofluorometers and centrifuges; and
(iv) Salary and other costs for time spent on nutrition assessment and certification.
(3) The cost of outreach services.
(4) The cost of administering the food delivery system, including the cost of transporting food.
(5) The cost of translators for materials and interpreters.
(6) The cost of fair hearings, including the cost of an independent medical assessment of the appellant, if necessary.
(7) The cost of transporting participants to clinics when prior approval for using Program funds to provide transportation has been granted by the State agency and documentation that such service is considered essential to assure Program access has been filed at the State agency. Direct reimbursement to participants for transportation cost is not an allowable cost.
(8) The cost of monitoring and reviewing Program operations.
(9) The cost, exclusive of laboratory tests, of screening for drug and other harmful substance use and making referrals for counseling and treatment services.
(10) The cost of breastfeeding aids which directly support the initiation and continuation of breastfeeding.
(d)
Costs allowable with approval.
The costs of capital expenditures exceeding the dollar threshold established in Agency policy and guidance are allowable only with the approval of FNS prior to the capital investment. These expenditures include the costs of facilities, equipment (including medical equipment), automated data processing (ADP) projects, other capital assets, and any repairs that materially increase the value or useful life of such assets.
(e)
Use of funds recovered from vendors, participants, or local agencies.
(1) The State agency may keep funds collected through the recovery of claims assessed against vendors, participants, or local agencies. Recovered funds include those withheld from a vendor as a result of reviews of food instruments prior to payment. Recovered funds may be used for either food or NSA costs.
(2) These recovered funds may be used in the fiscal year:
(i) In which the initial obligation was made;
(ii) In which the claim arose;
(iii) In which the funds are collected; or
(iv) after the funds are collected.
(3) The State agency may not credit any recoveries until:
(i) In the case of a vendor claim, the vendor has had the opportunity to correct or justify the error or apparent overcharge in accordance with § 246.12(k)(3);
(ii) In the case of a participant, any administrative hearing requested in accordance with § 246.9 has been completed; or
(iii) In the case of a local agency claim, any administrative review requested in accordance with the local agency agreement has been completed.
(4) The State agency must report vendor, participant, and local agency recoveries to FNS through the normal reporting process;
(5) The State agency must keep documentation supporting the amount and use of these vendor, participant, and local agency recoveries.
(f)
Use of funds received as rebates from manufacturers.
The State agency must credit and report rebate payments received from manufacturers in the
month in which the payments are received.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 21237, June 4, 1987; 53 FR 25314, July 6, 1988; 54 FR 18091, Apr. 27, 1989; 58 FR 11507, Feb. 26, 1993; 59 FR 11503, Mar. 11, 1994; 63 FR 63974, Nov. 18, 1998; 64 FR 67999, Dec. 6, 1999; 64 FR 70178, Dec. 16, 1999; 65 FR 83286, Dec. 29, 2000; 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 73 FR 11312, Mar. 3, 2008; 76 FR 59889, Sept. 28, 2011; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 246.15
Program income other than grants.
(a)
Interest earned on advances.
Interest earned on advances of Program funds at the State and local levels shall be treated in accordance with the provisions of 31 CFR part 205, which implement the requirements of the Cash Management Improvement Act of 1990. However, State agencies will not incur an interest liability to the Federal government on rebate funds for infant formula or other foods,
provided
that all interest earned on such funds is used for program purposes.
(b)
Other Program income.
The State agency may use current program income (applied in accordance with the addition method described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415) for costs incurred in the current fiscal year and, with the approval of FNS, for costs incurred in previous years or subsequent fiscal years. Provided that the costs supported by the income further the broad objectives of the Program, they need not be a kind that would be permissible as charges to Federal funds. Money received by the State agency as a result of civil money penalties or fines assessed against a vendor and any interest charged in the collection of these penalties and fines shall be considered as program income.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 63 FR 63974, Nov. 18, 1998; 64 FR 13324, Mar. 18, 1999; 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 246.16
Distribution of funds.
(a)
General.
This paragraph describes the timeframes for distribution of appropriated funds by the Department to participating State agencies and the authority for the Secretary to use appropriated funds for evaluation studies and demonstration projects.
(1) Authorized appropriations to carry out the provisions of this section may be made not more than 1 year in advance of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the funds shall become available for disbursement to the State agencies. The funds shall remain available for the purposes for which appropriated until expended.
(2) In the case of appropriations legislation providing funds through the end of a fiscal year, the Secretary shall issue to State agencies an initial allocation of funds provided under such legislation not later than the expiration of the 15-day period beginning on the date of the enactment and subsequent allocation of funds shall be issued not later than the beginning of each of the second, third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year.
(3) Allocations of funds pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be made as follows: The initial allocation of funds to State agencies shall include not less than
1/3
of the appropriated amounts for the fiscal year. The allocation of funds to be made not later than the beginning of the second and third quarters shall each include not less than
1/4
of the appropriated amounts for the fiscal year.
(4) In the case of legislation providing funds for a period that ends prior to the end of a fiscal year, the Secretary shall issue to State agencies an initial allocation of funds not later than the expiration of the 10-day period beginning on the date of enactment. In the case of legislation providing appropriations for a period of not more than 4 months, all funds must be allocated to State agencies except those reserved by the Secretary to carry out paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(5) In any fiscal year unused amounts from a prior fiscal year that are identified by the end of the first quarter of the fiscal year shall be recovered and reallocated not later than the beginning of the second quarter of the fiscal year. Unused amounts from a prior fiscal year that are identified after the end of the first quarter of the fiscal year shall be recovered and reallocated on a timely basis.
(6) Up to one-half of one percent of the sums appropriated for each fiscal year, not to exceed $5,000,000, shall be available to the Secretary for the purpose of evaluating Program performance, evaluating health benefits, providing technical assistance to improve State agency administrative systems, preparing reports on program participant characteristics, and administering pilot projects, including projects designed to meet the special needs of migrants, Indians, rural populations, and to carry out technical assistance and research evaluation projects for the WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program.
(b)
Distribution and application of grant funds to State agencies.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made available to the State agencies for the Program in any fiscal year will be managed and distributed as follows:
(1) The State agency shall ensure that all Program funds are used only for Program purposes. As a prerequisite to the receipt of funds, the State agency shall have executed an agreement with the Department and shall have received approval of its State Plan.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all funds not made available to the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (a)(6) of this section shall be distributed to State agencies on the basis of funding formulas which allocate funds to all State agencies for food costs and NSA costs incurred during the fiscal year for which the funds had been made available to the Department. Final State agency grant levels as determined by the funding formula and State agency breastfeeding promotion and support expenditure targets will be issued in a timely manner.
(3)
When may I transfer funds from one fiscal year to another?
—(i)
Back spend authority.
The State agency may back spend into the prior fiscal year up to an amount equal to one percent of its current year food grant and one percent of its current year NSA grant. Food funds spent back may be used only for food costs incurred during the prior fiscal year. NSA funds spent back may be used for either food or NSA costs incurred during the prior fiscal year. With prior FNS approval, the State agency may also back spend food funds up to an amount equal to three percent of its current year food grant in a fiscal year for food costs incurred in the prior fiscal year. FNS will approve such a request only if FNS determines there has been a significant reduction in infant formula cost containment savings that affected the State agency's ability to maintain its participation level.
(ii)
Spend forward authority.
(A) The State agency may spend forward NSA funds up to an amount equal to three (3) percent of its total grant (NSA plus food grants) in any fiscal year. These NSA funds spent forward may be used only for NSA costs incurred in the next fiscal year. Any food funds that the State agency converts to NSA funds pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section (based on projected or actual participation increases during a fiscal year) may not be spent forward into the next fiscal year. With prior FNS approval, the State agency may spend forward additional NSA funds up to an amount equal to one-half of one percent of its total grant. These funds are to be used in the next fiscal year for the development of a management information system, including an electronic benefit transfer system.
(B) Funds spent forward will not affect the amount of funds allocated to the State agency for any fiscal year. Funds spent forward must be the first funds expended by the State agency for costs incurred in the next fiscal year.
(iii)
Reporting requirements.
In addition to obtaining prior FNS approval for certain spend forward/back spending options, the State agency must report to FNS the amount of all funds it already has or intends to back spend and spend forward. The spending options must be reported at closeout.
(c)
Allocation formula.
State agencies shall receive grant allocations according to the formulas described in this paragraph. To accomplish the distribution of funds under the allocation formulas, State agencies shall furnish the Department with any necessary financial and Program data.
(1)
Use of participation data in the formula.
Wherever the formula set forth in
paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section require the use of participation data, the Department shall use participation data reported by State agencies according to § 246.25(b).
(2)
How is the amount of NSA funds determined?
The funds available for allocation to State agencies for NSA for each fiscal year must be sufficient to guarantee a national average per participant NSA grant, adjusted for inflation. The amount of the national average per participant grant for NSA for any fiscal year will be an amount equal to the national average per participant grant for NSA issued for the preceding fiscal year, adjusted for inflation. The inflation adjustment will be equal to the percentage change between two values. The first is the value of the index for State and local government purchases, as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce, for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the second preceding fiscal year. The second is the best estimate that is available at the start of the fiscal year of the value of such index for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the previous fiscal year. Funds for NSA costs will be allocated according to the following procedure:
(i)
Fair share target funding level determination.
For each State agency, FNS will establish, using all available NSA funds, an NSA fair share target funding level which is based on each State agency's average monthly participation level for the fiscal year for which grants are being calculated, as projected by FNS. Each State agency receives an adjustment to account for the higher per participant costs associated with small participation levels and differential salary levels relative to a national average salary level. The formula shall be adjusted to account for these cost factors in the following manner: 90 percent of available funds shall provide compensation based on rates which are proportionately higher for the first 15,000 or fewer participants, as projected by FNS, and 10 percent of available funds shall provide compensation based on differential salary levels, as determined by FNS.
(ii)
Base funding level.
To the extent funds are available and subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, each State agency shall receive an amount equal to 100 percent of the final formula-calculated NSA grant of the preceding fiscal year, prior to any operational adjustment funding allocations made under paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section. If funds are not available to provide all State agencies with their base funding level, all State agencies shall have their base funding level reduced by a pro-rata share as required by the shortfall of available funds.
(iii)
Fair share allocation.
Any funds remaining available for allocation for NSA after the base funding level required by paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section has been completed and subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section shall be allocated to bring each State agency closer to its NSA fair share target funding level. FNS shall make fair share allocation funds available to each State agency based on the difference between the NSA fair share target funding level and the base funding level, which are determined in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section, respectively. Each State agency's difference shall be divided by the sum of the differences for all State agencies, to determine the percent share of the available fair share allocation funds each State agency shall receive.
(iv)
Operational adjustment funds.
Each State agency's final NSA grant shall be reduced by up to 10 percent, and these funds shall be aggregated for all State agencies within each FNS region to form an operational adjustment fund. The Regions shall allocate these funds to State agencies according to national guidelines and shall consider the varying needs of State agencies within the region.
(v)
Operational level.
The sum of each State agency's stability, residual and operational adjustment funds shall constitute the State agency's operational level. This operational level shall remain unchanged for such year even if the number of Federally-supported participants in the program at such State agency is lower than the Federally-projected participation level. However, if the provisions of paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section are applicable,
a State agency will have its operational level for NSA reduced in the immediately succeeding fiscal year.
(3)
Allocation of food benefit funds.
In any fiscal year, any amounts remaining from amounts appropriated for such fiscal year and amounts appropriated from the preceding fiscal year after making allocations under paragraph (a)(6) of this section and allocations for nutrition services and administration (NSA) as required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be made available for food costs. Allocations to State agencies for food costs will be determined according to the following procedure:
(i)
Fair share target funding level determination.
(A) For each State agency, FNS will establish a fair share target funding level which shall be an amount of funds proportionate to the State agency's share of the national aggregate population of persons who are income eligible to participate in the Program based on the 185 percent of poverty criterion. The Department will determine each State agency's population of persons categorically eligible for WIC which are at or below 185% of poverty, through the best available, nationally uniform, indicators as determined by the Department. If the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) also operates in the area served by the WIC State agency, the number of participants in such area participating in the CSFP but otherwise eligible to participate in the WIC Program, as determined by FNS, shall be deducted from the WIC State agency's population of income eligible persons. If the State agency chooses to exercise the option in § 246.7(c)(2) to limit program participation to U.S. citizens, nationals, and qualified aliens, FNS will reduce the State agency's population of income eligible persons to reflect the number of aliens the State agency declares no longer eligible.
(B) The Department may adjust the respective amounts of food funds that would be allocated to a State agency which is outside the 48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia when the State agency can document that economic conditions result in higher food costs for the State agency. Prior to any such adjustment, the State agency must demonstrate that it has successfully implemented voluntary cost containment measures, such as improved vendor management practices, participation in multi-state agency infant formula rebate contracts or other cost containment efforts. The Department may use the Thrifty Food Plan amounts used in SNAP, or other available data, to formulate adjustment factors for such State agencies.
(ii)
Prior year grant level allocation.
To the extent funds are available, each State agency shall receive a prior year grant allocation equal to its final authorized grant level as of September 30 of the prior fiscal year. If funds are not available to provide all State agencies with their full prior year grant level allocation, all State agencies shall have their full prior year grant level allocation reduced by a pro-rata share as required by the shortfall of available funds.
(iii)
Inflation/fair share allocation.
(A) If funds remain available after the allocation of funds under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the funds shall be allocated as provided in this paragraph (c)(3)(iii). First, FNS will calculate a target inflation allowance by applying the anticipated rate of food cost inflation, as determined by the Department, to the prior year grant funding level. Second, FNS will allocate 80 percent of the available funds to all State agencies in proportionate shares to meet the target inflation allowance. Third, FNS will allocate 20 percent of the available funds to each State agency which has a prior year grant level allocation, as determined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section and adjusted for inflation as determined in this paragraph (c)(3)(iii), which is still less than its fair share target funding level. The amount of funds allocated to each State agency shall be based on the difference between its prior year grant level allocation plus target inflation funds and the fair share funding target level. Each State agency's difference shall be divided by the sum of the differences for all such State agencies, to determine the percentage share of the 20 percent of available funds each State agency shall receive. In the event a State agency declines any of its allocation under either this paragraph
(c)(3)(iii) or paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the declined funds shall be reallocated in the percentages and manner described in this paragraph (c)(3)(iii). Once all State agencies receive allocations equal to their full target inflation allowance, any remaining funds shall be allocated or reallocated, in the manner described in this paragraph (c)(3)(iii), to those State agencies still under their fair share target funding level.
(B) In the event funds still remain after completing the distribution in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, these funds shall be allocated to all State agencies including those with a stability allocation at, or greater than, their fair share allocation. Each State agency which can document the need for additional funds shall receive additional funds based on the difference between its prior year grant level and its fair share allocation. State agencies closest to their fair share allocation shall receive first consideration.
(iv)
Migrant services.
At least
9/10
of one percent of appropriated funds for each fiscal year shall be available first to assure service to eligible members of migrant populations. For those State agencies serving migrants, a portion of the grant shall be designated to each State agency for service to members of migrant populations based on that State agency's prior year reported migrant participation. The national aggregate amount made available first for this purpose shall equal
9/10
of one percent of all funds appropriated each year for the Program.
(v)
Special provisions for Indian State agencies.
The Department may choose to adjust the allocations and/or eligibles data among Indian State agencies, or among Indian State agencies and the geographic State agencies in which they are located when eligibles data for the State agencies' population is determined to not fairly represent the population to be served. Such allocations may be redistributed from one State agency to another, based on negotiated agreements among the affected State agencies approved by FNS.
(4)
Adjustment for new State agencies.
Whenever a State agency that had not previously administered the program enters into an agreement with the Department to do so during a fiscal year, the Department shall make any adjustments to the requirements of this section that are deemed necessary to establish an appropriate initial funding level for such State agency.
(d)
Distribution of funds to local agencies.
The State agency shall provide to local agencies all funds made available by the Department, except those funds necessary for allowable State agency NSA costs and food costs paid directly by the State agency. The State agency shall distribute the funds based on claims submitted at least quarterly by the local agency. Where the State agency advances funds to local agencies, the State agency shall ensure that each local agency has funds to cover immediate disbursement needs, and the State agency shall offset the advances made against incoming claims as they are submitted to ensure that funding levels reflect the actual expenditures reported by the local agency. Upon receipt of Program funds from the Department, the State agency shall take the following actions:
(1) Distribute funds to cover expected food cost expenditures and/or distribute caseload targets to each local agency which are used to project food cost expenditures.
(2) Allocate funds to cover expected local agency NSA costs in a manner which takes into consideration each local agency's needs. For the allocation of NSA funds, the State agency shall develop an NSA funding procedure, in cooperation with representative local agencies, which takes into account the varying needs of the local agencies. The State agency shall consider the views of local agencies, but the final decision as to the funding procedure remains with the State agency. The State agency shall take into account factors it deems appropriate to further proper, efficient and effective administration of the program, such as local agency staffing needs, density of population, number of persons served, and availability of administrative support from other sources.
(3) The State agency may provide in advance to any local agency any
amount of funds for NSA deemed necessary for the successful commencement or significant expansion of program operations during a reasonable period following approval of a new local agency, a new cost containment measure, or a significant change in an existing cost containment measure.
(e)
Recovery and reallocation of funds.
(1) Funds may be recovered from a State agency at any time the Department determines, based on State agency reports of expenditures and operations, that the State agency is not expending funds at a rate commensurate with the amount of funds distributed or provided for expenditures under the Program. Recovery of funds may be either voluntary or involuntary in nature. Such funds shall be reallocated by the Department through application of appropriate formulas set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Performance standards.
The following standards shall govern expenditure performance.
(i) The amount allocated to any State agency for food benefits in the current fiscal year shall be reduced if such State agency's food expenditures for the preceding fiscal year do not equal or exceed 97 percent of the amount allocated to the State agency for such costs. Such reduction shall equal the difference between the State agency's preceding year food expenditures and the performance expenditure standard amount. For purposes of determining the amount of such reduction, the amount allocated to the State agency for food benefits for the preceding fiscal year shall not include food funds expended for food costs incurred under the spendback provision in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section or conversion authority in paragraph (g) of this section. Temporary waivers of the performance standard may be granted at the discretion of the Department.
(ii)
Reduction of NSA grant.
FNS will reduce the State agency's NSA grant for the next fiscal year if the State agency's current fiscal year per participant NSA expenditure is more than 10 percent higher than its per participant NSA grant. To avoid a reduction to its NSA grant level, the State agency may submit a “good cause” justification explaining why it exceeded the applicable limit on excess NSA expenditures. This justification must be submitted at the same time as the close-out report for the applicable fiscal year. Good cause may include dramatic and unforeseen increases in food costs, which would prevent a State agency from meeting its projected participation level.
(iii)
Spend forward funds.
If any State agency notifies the Department of its intent to spend forward a specific amount of funds for expenditure in the subsequent fiscal year, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, such funds shall not be subject to recovery by the Department.
(f)
How do I qualify to convert food funds to NSA funds based on increased participation?
—(1)
Requirements.
The State agency qualifies to convert food funds to NSA funds based on increased participation in any fiscal year in two ways:
(i)
Approved plan.
A State agency may submit a plan to FNS to reduce average food costs per participant and to increase participation above the FNS-projected level for the State agency. If approved, the State agency may use funds allocated for food costs to pay NSA costs.
(ii)
Participation increases achieved.
The State agency may also convert food funds to NSA funds in any fiscal year if it achieves, through acceptable measures, increases in participation in excess of the FNS-projected level for the State agency. Acceptable measures include use of cost containment measures, curtailment of vendor abuse, and breastfeeding promotional activities. FNS will disallow the State agency's conversion of food funds to NSA funds in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section if:
(A) The State agency increases its participation level through measures that are not in the nutritional interests of participants; or
(B) It is not otherwise allowable under program regulations.
(2)
Limitation.
The State agency may convert food funds only to the extent that the conversion is necessary—
(i) To cover NSA expenditures in the current fiscal year that exceed the State agency's NSA grant for the current fiscal year and any NSA funds
which the State agency has spent forward into the current fiscal year; and
(ii) To ensure that the State agency maintains the level established for the per participant NSA grant for the current fiscal year.
(3)
Maximum amount.
The maximum amount the State agency may convert equals the State agency's conversion rate times the projected or actual participation increase, as applicable. The conversion rate is the same as the per participant NSA grant and is determined by dividing the State agency's NSA grant by the FNS-projected participation level. The NSA grant used in the calculation equals the initial allocation of current year funds plus the operational adjustment funding allocated to the State agency for that fiscal year.
(g)
How do I qualify to convert food funds to NSA funds for service to remote Indian or Native villages?
—(1)
Eligible State agencies.
Only State agencies located in noncontiguous States containing a significant number of remote Indian or Native villages qualify to convert food funds to NSA funds under this paragraph (g) in any fiscal year.
(2)
Limitation.
In the current fiscal year, food funds may be converted only to the extent necessary to cover expenditures incurred:
(i) In providing services (including the full cost of air transportation and other transportation) to remote Indian or Native villages; and
(ii) To provide breastfeeding support in those areas that exceed the State agency's NSA grant for the current fiscal year and any NSA funds which the State agency has spent forward into the current fiscal year.
(h)
What happens at the end of the fiscal year in which food funds are converted?
At the end of the fiscal year, the Department will determine the amount of food funds which the State agency was entitled to convert to NSA funds under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section. In the event that the State agency has converted more than the permitted amount of funds, the Department will disallow the amount of excess conversion.
(i)
How do converted funds affect the calculation of my prior year food grant and base NSA grant?
For purposes of establishing a State agency's prior year food grant and base NSA grant under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(3)(i) of this section, respectively, amounts converted from food funds to NSA funds under paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section and § 246.14(e) during the preceding fiscal year will be treated as though no conversion had taken place.
(j)
Inflation adjustment of the fruit and vegetable voucher.
The monthly cash value of the fruit and vegetable voucher shall be adjusted annually for inflation. Adjustments are effective the first day of each fiscal year beginning on or after October 1 each year. The inflation-adjusted value of the voucher shall be equal to a base value increased by a factor based on the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for fresh fruits and vegetables, as provided in this section.
(1)
Adjustment year.
The adjustment year is the fiscal year that begins October 1 of the current calendar year.
(2)
Base value of the fruit and vegetable voucher.
The base year for calculation of the value of the fruit and vegetable voucher is fiscal year 2022. The base value to be used equals:
(i) $24 for children;
(ii) $43 for pregnant and postpartum women; and
(iii) $47 for breastfeeding (fully and partially (mostly)) women.
(3)
Adjusted value of the fruit and vegetable voucher.
The adjusted value of the fruit and vegetable voucher is the cash value of the voucher for adjustment years beginning on or after October 1, 2022. The adjusted value is the base value increased by an amount equal to the base value of the fruit and vegetable voucher:
(i) Multiplied by the inflation adjustment described in paragraph (j)(4) of this section; and
(ii) Subject to rounding as described in paragraph (j)(5) of this section.
(4)
Inflation adjustment.
The inflation adjustment of the fruit and vegetable voucher shall equal the percentage (if any) by which the annual average value of the Consumer Price Index for fresh fruits and vegetables, computed from monthly values published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the twelve months ending on March 31 of the fiscal year immediately prior to
the adjustment year, exceeds the average of the monthly values of that index for the twelve months ending on March 31, 2021.
(5)
Rounding.
If any increase in the cash value of the voucher determined under paragraph (j)(3) of this section is not a multiple of $1, such increase shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple of $1. However, if the adjusted value of the voucher for the adjustment year, as determined under paragraph (j)(3) of this section, is lower than the adjusted value for the fiscal year immediately prior to the adjustment year, then the adjusted value of the voucher will remain unchanged from that immediate prior fiscal year.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 246.16, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 246.16a
Infant formula and authorized foods cost containment.
(a)
Who must use cost containment procedures for infant formula?
All State agencies must continuously operate a cost containment system for infant formula that is implemented in accordance with this section except:
(1) State agencies with home delivery or direct distribution food delivery systems;
(2) Indian State agencies with 1,000 or fewer participants in April of any fiscal year, which are exempt for the following fiscal year;
(3) State agencies granted a waiver under paragraph (e) of this section; and
(4) State agencies granted a postponement under paragraph (f) of this section.
(b)
What cost containment procedures must be used?
State agencies must use either a single-supplier competitive system as outlined in paragraph (c) of this section, or an alternative cost containment system as outlined in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
What is the single-supplier competitive system?
(1) Under the single-supplier competitive system, a State agency solicits sealed bids from infant formula manufacturers to supply and provide a rebate for infant formulas. The State agency must conduct the procurement in a manner that maximizes full and open competition consistent with the requirements of this section. A State agency must:
(i) Provide a minimum of 30 days between the publication of the solicitation and the date on which the bids are due, unless exempted by the Secretary; and
(ii) Publicly open and read all bids aloud on the day the bids are due.
(2)
How must a State agency structure the bid solicitation?
(i)
Single solicitation.
Under the single solicitation system, the State agency's bid solicitation must require the winning bidder to supply and provide a rebate on all infant formulas it produces that the State agency chooses to issue, except exempt infant formulas. Rebates must also be paid on any new infant formulas that are introduced after the contract is awarded. The solicitation must require bidders that do not produce a soy-based infant formula to subcontract with another manufacturer to supply a soy-based infant formula under the contract. In this case, the bid solicitation must require that the winning bidder pay the State agency a rebate on the soy-based infant formula supplied by the subcontractor that is issued by the State agency. The bid solicitation must require all rebates (including those for soy-based infant formula supplied by a subcontractor) to be calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(6) of this section. All of these infant formulas are called contract brand infant formulas.
(ii)
Separate solicitations.
Under the separate solicitation system, a State agency issues two bid solicitations. Any State agency or alliance that served a monthly average of more than 100,000 infants during the preceding 12-month period shall issue separate bid solicitations for milk-based and soy-based infant formula. The first solicitation must require the winning bidder to supply and provide a rebate on all milk-based infant formulas it produces that the State agency chooses to issue, except exempt infant formulas. Rebates must also be paid on any new milk-based infant formulas that are introduced by the manufacturer after the contract is awarded. These infant formulas are considered to be contract
brand infant formulas. The second bid solicitation must require the winning bidder to supply and provide a rebate on all soy-based infant formulas it produces that the State agency chooses to issue. Rebates must also be paid on any new soy-based infant formulas that are introduced by the manufacturer after the contract is awarded. These infant formulas are also considered to be contract brand infant formulas.
(3)
What is the size limitation for a State alliance?
A State alliance may exist among State agencies if the total number of infants served by States participating in the alliance as of October 1, 2003, or such subsequent date determined by the Secretary for which data is available, does not exceed 100,000. However, a State alliance that existed as of July 1, 2004, and serves over 100,000 infants may exceed this limit to include any State agency that served less than 5,000 infants as of October 1, 2003, or such subsequent date determined by the Secretary for which data is available, and/or any Indian State agency. The bid solicitation must identify the composition of the State alliances for the purpose of a cost containment measure, and verify that no additional State shall be added to the State alliance between the date of the bid solicitation and the end of the contract. The Secretary may waive these requirements not earlier than 30 days after submitting to the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a written report that describes the cost-containment and competitive benefits of the proposed waiver.
(4)
On what types and physical forms of infant formula must bids be solicited?
The bid solicitation must require bidders to specify a rebate for each of the types and physical forms of infant formulas specified in the following chart. These rebates apply proportionally to other infant formulas produced by the winning bidder(s) (see paragraph (c)(6) of this section).
Type of infant formula
Physical forms of infant formula
Infant formula requirements
(i) For a single solicitation, the solicitation must require bidders to specify a rebate amount for the following:
A single milk-based infant formula (primary contract infant formula); bidders must specify the brand name of the milk-based infant formula for which the rebate is being specified
Concentrated liquid, powdered, and ready-to-feed
Meets requirements under § 246.10(e)(1)(iii) and § 246.10(e)(2)(iii) and suitable for routine issuance to the majority of generally healthy, full-term infants.
(ii) For separate solicitations, the solicitation must require bidders to specify a rebate amount for the following:
(A) A single milk-based infant formula (primary milk-based contract brand infant formula); bidders must specify the brand name of the milk-based infant formula for which the rebate is being specified
Concentrated liquid, powdered, and ready-to-feed
Meets requirements under § 246.10(e)(1)(iii) and § 246.10(e)(2)(iii) and suitable for routine issuance to the majority of generally healthy, full-term infants.
(B) A single soy-based infant formula (primary soy-based contract brand infant formula); bidders must specify the brand name of the soy-based infant formula for which the rebate is being specified
Concentrated liquid, powdered, and ready-to-feed
Meets requirements under § 246.10(e)(1)(iii) and § 246.10(e)(2)(iii).
(5) A State agency must award the contract(s) to the responsive bidder(s) offering the lowest total monthly net price for infant formula or the highest monthly rebate (subject to paragraph(c)(4)(ii) of this section) for a standardized number of units of infant formula. To be responsive, a bidder must submit a bid by the deadline set by the State agency that conforms to the solicitation and must meet requirements at 246.16a and set forth in the bid solicitation. The State agency must calculate the lowest net price using the lowest national wholesale cost per unit for a full truckload of the infant formula on the date of the bid opening.
(6)
What data must be provided to bidders?
The State agency must provide as part of the bid solicitation the participation and infant formula usage data and the standardized number of ounces
by physical form of infant formula to be used in evaluating bids as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. The State agency must notify bidders that the participation and infant formula usage data does not necessarily reflect the actual issuance and redemption that will occur under the contract.
(7)
How is the rebate to be calculated on all other contract brand infant formulas?
All bids must specify the rebates offered by each bidder for the primary contract infant formula(s). After the contract is awarded, the State agency must calculate the percentage discount for all other contract brand infant formulas (i.e., all other infant formulas produced by the bidder other than exempt infant formulas) approved for issuance by the State agency. The State agency must use the following method in calculating the rebates:
(i)
Calculation of percentage discounts.
Rebates for contract brand infant formulas, other than the primary contract infant formula(s) for which bids were received, must be calculated by first determining the percentage discount for each physical form (e.g., concentrated liquid, powdered, and ready-to-feed) of the primary contract infant formula(s). The percentage discount must be calculated by dividing the rebate for the primary contract infant formula by the manufacturer's lowest national wholesale price per unit, as of the date of the bid opening, for a full truckload of the primary contract infant formula. The percentage discounts must be used to determine the rebate for all other contract brand infant formulas approved for issuance by the State agency.
(ii)
Calculation of rebate amount.
The rebate for each type and form of all other contract brand infant formulas must be calculated by multiplying the percentage discount by the manufacturer's lowest national wholesale price per unit, as of the date of the bid opening, for a full truckload of the other contract brand infant formula. The percentage discount used for each of the other contract brand infant formulas depends on the physical form of the infant formula. For example, if the percentage discount provided for the primary contract brand powdered infant formula is 80 percent of its wholesale price, the same percentage discount must be applied to all other contract brand powdered infant formulas. The rebate for any types or forms of contract brand infant formulas that are introduced during the contract period must be calculated using the wholesale prices of these new contract brand infant formulas at the time the infant formulas are approved for issuance by the State agency.
(iii)
Calculation of rebates during contract term.
The rebates resulting from the application of the percentage discount must remain the same throughout the contract period except for the cent-for-cent rebate adjustments required in paragraph (c)(6)(iv) of this section.
(iv)
Cent-for-cent rebate adjustments.
Bid solicitations must require the manufacturer to adjust rebates for price changes subsequent to the bid opening. Price adjustments must reflect any increase and decrease, on a cent-for-cent basis, in the manufacturer's lowest national wholesale prices for a full truckload of infant formula.
(8)
What is the first choice of issuance for infant formula?
The State agency must use the primary contract infant formula(s) as the first choice of issuance (by physical form), with all other infant formulas issued as an alternative (see § 246.10(e)(1)(iii)).
(9)
Under what circumstances may the State agency issue other contract brand formulas?
Except as required in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, the State agency may choose to approve for issuance some, none, or all of the winning bidder's other infant formula(s). In addition, the State agency may require medical documentation before issuing any contract brand infant formula, except as provided in paragraph (c)(7) of this section (see § 246.10(c)(1)(i)) and must require medical documentation before issuing any WIC formula covered by § 246.10(c)(1)(iii).
(d)
What is an alternative cost containment system?
Under an alternative cost containment system, a State agency elects to implement an infant formula cost containment system of its choice. The State agency may only implement an alternative system if such a system provides a savings equal to or greater
than a single-supplier competitive system. A State agency must conduct a cost comparison demonstrating such savings as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
(1)
How must the State agency structure the bid solicitation?
The State agency must solicit bids simultaneously using the single-supplier competitive system described in paragraph (c) of this section and the alternative cost containment system(s) the State agency has selected. The State agency may prescribe standards of its choice for the alternative cost containment system(s), provided that conditions established for each system addressed in the bid solicitation include identical bid specifications for the contract period length and the types and forms of infant formula(s) to be included in the systems. In addition, the alternative cost containment system must cover the types and forms of infant formulas routinely issued to the majority of generally healthy, full-term infants. The State agency must use the procedure outlined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section in conducting a cost comparison to determine which system offers the greatest savings over the entire contract period specified in the bid solicitation.
(2)
How does the State agency conduct the cost comparison?
(i)
Establishing infant formula cost containment savings.
(A)
Savings under the single-supplier competitive system.
The State agency must project food cost savings in the single-supplier competitive system based on the lowest monthly net price or highest monthly rebate, as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(B)
Savings under an alternative cost containment system.
The State agency must project food cost savings under alternative cost containment systems based on the lowest monthly net cost or highest monthly rebate, as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Food cost savings must be based on the standardized amount of infant formula expected to be issued as calculated for a single-supplier competitive system, prorated by the percentage of anticipated total infant formula purchases attributable to each manufacturer. The State agency must use the aggregate market share of the manufacturers submitting bids in calculating its cost savings estimate.
(C)
General.
In establishing the potential food cost savings under each system, the State agency must take into consideration in its estimate of savings any inflation factors which would affect the amount of savings over the life of the contract. Further, the State agency must not subtract any loss of payments which would occur under the terms of a current contract as a result of any State agency action to be effective after expiration of the contract.
(ii)
Nutrition services and administration cost adjustment.
The State agency must deduct from the food cost savings projected for each system under this paragraph (d) the nutrition services and administration costs associated with developing and implementing—but not operating—each cost containment system. This includes any anticipated costs for modifying its automated data processing system or components of its food delivery system(s), and of training participants, local agencies, vendors, and licensed health care professionals on the purpose and procedures of the new system. For contracts of two years or less, such costs must be proportionately distributed over at least a two year period. The State agency must not deduct any costs associated with procurement. The State agency must itemize and justify all nutrition services and administration cost adjustments as necessary and reasonable for the development and implementation of each system.
(iii)
Final cost comparison.
The State agency must calculate the food costs savings and deduct the appropriate nutrition services and administration costs for each system for which bids were received. The State agency must implement the single-supplier competitive system, unless its comparative cost analysis shows that, over the length of the contract stipulated in the bid solicitation, an alternative cost containment system offers savings at least equal to, or greater than, those under the competitive single-supplier system. If the comparative cost analysis permits selection of the alternative cost containment system and the State agency wishes to implement that system, it must first submit a
State Plan amendment with the calculations and supporting documentation for this cost analysis to FNS for approval. Only after the calculations are approved by FNS may the State agency award the contract or contracts under the alternative cost containment system.
(e)
How does a State agency request a waiver of the requirement for a single-supplier competitive system?
A State agency which, after completing the cost comparison in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(iii) of this section, is required to implement the single-supplier competitive cost containment system for infant formula procurement, may request a waiver from FNS to permit it to implement an alternative system. State agencies must support all waiver requests with documentation in the form of a State Plan amendment as required under § 246.4(a)(14)(x) and may submit such requests only in either of the following circumstances:
(1) The difference between the single-supplier competitive system and the alternative cost containment system is less than 3 percent of the savings anticipated under the latter system and not more than $100,000 per annum.
(2) The single-supplier competitive system would be inconsistent with the efficient or effective operation of the program. Examples of justifications FNS will not accept for a waiver, include, but are not limited to: preservation of participant preference for otherwise nutritionally equivalent infant formulas; maintenance of health care professionals' prerogatives to prescribe otherwise nutritionally equivalent infant formulas for non-medical reasons; potential loss of free or otherwise discounted materials to WIC clinics and other health care facilities; potential inability of a manufacturer selected in accordance with applicable State procurement procedures to supply contractually-specified amounts of infant formula; and the possibility of interrupted infant formula supplies to retail outlets as a consequence of entering into a contract with a single manufacturer.
(f)
How does a State agency request a postponement of the requirement for a continuously operated cost containment system for infant formula?
A State agency may request a postponement of the requirement to continuously operate a cost containment system for infant formula that has been implemented in accordance with this section. However, a State agency may only request a postponement when it has taken timely and responsible action to implement a cost containment system before its current system expires but has been unable to do so due to procurement delays, disputes with FNS concerning cost containment issues during the State Plan approval process or other circumstances beyond its control. The written postponement request must be submitted to FNS before the expiration of the current system. The postponement period may be no longer than 120 days. If a postponement is granted, the State agency may extend, renew or otherwise continue an existing system during the period of the postponement.
(g)
May a State agency implement cost containment systems for other supplemental foods?
Yes, when a State agency finds that it is practicable and feasible to implement a cost containment system for any WIC food other than infant formula. The State agency must:
(1) Provide notification to FNS by means of the State agency's State Plan.
(2) Comply with paragraphs (c)(2) and (k) of this section.
(3) Provide a minimum of 30 days between the publication of the solicitation and the date on which the bids are due, unless exempted by the Secretary. The State must publicly open and read all bids aloud on the day the bids are due.
(4) Issue separate solicitations for authorized foods if any alliance served a monthly average of more than 100,000 infants during the preceding 12-month period.
(h)
What are the implementation time frames for Indian State agencies that lose their exemption from the infant formula cost containment requirement?
If an Indian State agency operating a retail food delivery system expands its program participation above 1000 and thereby loses its exemption from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section regarding the method of cost containment for infant formula, then
the Indian State agency must begin compliance with paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with time frames established by FNS.
(i)
What are the penalties for failure to comply with the cost containment requirements?
Any State agency that FNS determines to be out of compliance with the cost containment requirements of this part must not draw down on or obligate any Program grant funds, nor will FNS make any further Program funds available to such State agency, until it is in compliance with these requirements.
(j)
What provisions are prohibited to be included in cost containment contracts?
A State agency may not issue bid solicitations or enter into contracts which:
(1) Prescribe conditions that would void, reduce the savings under or otherwise limit the original contract if the State agency solicited or secured bids for, or entered into, a subsequent cost containment contract to take effect after the expiration of the original contract;
(2) Does not include the registration and certification requirements in § 246.10(g);
(3) Require infant formula manufacturers to submit bids on more than one of the systems specified in the invitation for bids; or
(4) Require infant formula manufacturers to provide gratis infant formula or other items.
(k)
What are the requirements for infant formula and authorized food rebate invoices?
A State agency must have a system in place that ensures infant formula and authorized food rebate invoices, under competitive bidding, provide a reasonable estimate or an actual count of the number of units purchased by participants in the program.
(l)
What are the requirements for the national cost containment bid solicitation and selection for infant formula?
FNS will solicit and select bids for infant formula rebates on behalf of State agencies with retail food delivery systems based on the following guidelines:
(1) FNS will solicit bids and select the winning bidder(s) for infant formula cost containment contracts only if two or more State agencies with retail food delivery systems request FNS to conduct bid solicitation and selection on their behalf. FNS will conduct the bid solicitation and selection process only and will not award or enter into any infant formula cost containment contract on behalf of the individual State agencies. Each State agency will individually award and enter into infant formula cost containment contract(s) with the winning bidder(s). State agencies must obtain the rebates directly from the infant formula manufacturer(s). FNS will conduct the bid solicitation in accordance with this paragraph (l) and the competitive bidding procurement procedures of the State agency with the highest infant participation in the bid group on whose behalf bids are being solicited. Any bid protests and contractual disputes are the responsibility of the individual State agencies to resolve.
(2) FNS will make a written offer to all State agencies to conduct bid solicitation and selection on their behalf at least once every 12 months. FNS will send State agencies a copy of the draft Request for Rebates when making the offer to State agencies. Only State agencies that provide the information required by this paragraph (l)(2) in writing, signed by a responsible State agency official, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by hand delivery with evidence of receipt within 15 days of receipt of the offer will be included in the national bid solicitation and selection process. Each interested State agency must provide:
(i) A statement that the State agency requests FNS to conduct bid solicitation and selection on its behalf;
(ii) A statement of the State agency's minimum procurement procedures applicable to competitive bidding (as defined in § 246.2) for infant formula cost containment contracts and supporting documentation;
(iii) A statement of any limitation on the duration of infant formula cost containment contracts and supporting documentation;
(iv) A statement of any contractual provisions required to be included in infant formula cost containment contracts by the State agency;
(v) The most recent available average monthly number of infant participants less those infant participants who are
exclusively breastfed and those who are issued exempt infant formula. The average monthly participation level must be based on at least 6 months of participation data.
(vi) Infant formula usage rates by type (e.g., milk-based or soy-based), form (e.g., concentrated, powdered, ready-to-feed), container size, and supporting documentation;
(vii) A statement of the termination date of the State agency's current infant formula cost containment contract; and
(viii) Any other related information that FNS may request.
(3) If FNS determines that the number of State agencies making the request provided for in paragraph (l)(2) of this section does not comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, FNS shall, in consultation with such State agencies, divide such State agencies into more than one group and solicit bids for each group. These groups of State agencies are referred to as “bid groups.” In determining the size and composition of the bid groups, FNS will, to the extent practicable, take into account the need to maximize the number of potential bidders so as to increase competition among infant formula manufacturers and the similarities in the State agencies' procurement and contract requirements (as provided by the State agencies in accordance with paragraphs (l)(2)(ii), (l)(2)(iii), and (l)(2)(iv) of this section). FNS reserves the right to exclude a State agency from the national bid solicitation and selection process if FNS determines that the State agency's procurement requirements or contractual requirements are so dissimilar from those of the other State agencies in any bid group that the State agency's inclusion in the bid group could adversely affect the bids.
(4) For each bid group formed pursuant to paragraphs (l)(2) and (l)(3) of this section, FNS will use for soliciting bids the competitive bidding procurement procedures of the State agency in the group with the highest infant participation. To the extent not inconsistent with the requirements of this paragraph (l), FNS will use that set of procedures in soliciting the bids for that bid group of State agencies. FNS will notify each State agency in the bid group of the choice and provide them each a copy of the procurement procedures of the chosen State agency. Each State agency must provide FNS a written statement, signed by a responsible State agency official, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by hand delivery with evidence of receipt stating whether that State agency is legally authorized to award an infant formula cost containment contract pursuant to that set of procedures within 10 days of the receipt of the notification. If the State agency determines it is not legally authorized to award an infant formula cost containment contract pursuant to those procedures, that State agency may not continue in that round of the national bid solicitation and selection.
(5) At a minimum, in soliciting bids FNS will address the following:
(i) Unless FNS determines that doing so would not be in the best interest of the Program, bids will be solicited for either:
(A) A single contract for each State agency under which the winning bidder will be required to supply and provide rebates on all infant formulas produced by that manufacturer (except exempt infant formulas) that are issued by the State agency. If that manufacturer does not produce a soy-based infant formula, the winning bidder will be required to subcontract with another manufacturer for a soy-based infant formula and the winning bidder will be required to pay a rebate on the soy-based infant formula; or
(B) Two separate contracts for each State agency. Under the first contract, the winning bidder will supply and provide a rebate on all the milk-based infant formulas the winning bidder produces (except exempt infant formulas) that are issued by the State agency and under the second contract the winning bidder will supply and provide a rebate on all the soy-based infant formulas the winning bidder produces (except exempt infant formulas) that are issued by the State agency.
(ii) The infant formula cost containment contract(s) to be entered into by the State agencies and infant formula manufacturers must provide for a constant net price for infant formula for
the full term of the infant formula cost containment contract(s).
(iii) The duration of the infant formula cost containment contracts for each bid group will be determined by FNS in consultation with the State agencies. The term will be for a period of not less than 2 years, unless the law applicable to a State agency regarding the duration of infant formula cost containment contracts is more restrictive than this paragraph (l)(5)(iii). In such cases, the term of the contract for only that State agency will be for one year, with the option provided to the State agency to extend the contract for a specified number of additional years (to be determined by FNS in consultation with the State agency). The date on which the individual State agencies' current infant formula cost containment contracts terminate may vary, so the infant formula cost containment contracts awarded by the State agencies within a bid group may begin on different dates.
(iv) FNS will not prescribe conditions that are prohibited under paragraph (j) of this section.
(v) FNS will solicit bids for rebates only from infant formula manufacturers. FNS may limit advertising to contacting in writing each infant formula manufacturer which has registered with the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321
et seq.
).
(6) FNS will select the winning bidder(s). The winning bidder(s) will be the responsive and responsible bidder(s) meeting the specifications and all bid terms and conditions which offers the lowest net price weighted to take into account infant formula usage rates and infant participation. In all instances the winning bidder(s) will be those which singly or in combination yield the greatest aggregate savings based on the net price weighted to take into account the infant formula usage rates. To break a tie between 2 equally low bids, FNS will select the bidder to be awarded the infant formula cost containment contract by a drawing by lot limited to the bidders which submitted those bids.
(7) Once FNS has conducted bid selection, a State agency may decline to award the infant formula cost containment contract(s) only if the State agency determines that awarding the contract(s) would not be in the best interests of its Program, taking into account whether the national bid solicitation and selection would achieve a lower aggregate savings.
(8) As soon as practicable after selecting the winning bid(s), FNS will notify the affected State agencies in writing of the bid results, including the name(s) of the winning bidder(s). If a State agency chooses to request approval to decline to award the infant formula cost containment contract(s) in accordance with paragraph (l)(7) of this section, it must notify FNS in writing, signed by a responsible State agency official, together with supporting documentation, by certified mail, return receipt requested or by hand delivery with evidence of receipt within 10 days of the State agency's receipt of this notification of bid results.
(9) If FNS approves any State agency's request to decline to award the infant formula cost containment contract(s) in accordance with paragraphs (l)(7) and (l)(8) of this section, FNS will notify the bidders of the decision. If two or more State agencies remain in the group, FNS will require the bidders to indicate in writing whether they wish to withdraw or modify their bids within 5 days of receipt of this notification. FNS will again permit State agencies to decline to award the infant formula cost containment contract(s) in accordance with paragraphs (l)(7) and (l)(8) of this section. If FNS approves these additional State agency requests to decline contract awards, FNS may conduct a resolicitation of bids in accordance with this paragraph (l).
(m)
What are the penalties for disclosing the amount of the bid or discount practices prior to the time bids are opened?
Any person, company, corporation, or other legal entity that submits a bid in response to a bid solicitation and discloses the amount of the bid, or the rebate or discount practices of such entities, in advance of the time the bids are opened by the Secretary or the State agency, shall be ineligible to submit bids to supply infant formula to the program for the bidding in progress
for up to 2 years from the date the bids are opened. In addition, any person, company, corporation, or other legal entity shall be subject to a civil money penalty as specified in § 3.91(b)(3)(iv) of this title, as determined by the Secretary to provide restitution to the program for harm done to the program.
(n)
What minimum recall-related provisions must be included in infant formula cost containment contracts?
A State agency must include remedies in the event of a recall in their infant formula cost containment contract to protect against disruption in infant formula supply to participants. The State agency will determine when remedies take effect and remain in effect, in accordance with applicable Program requirements and the infant formula cost containment contract. At minimum, recall remedies in the State agency's infant formula cost containment contract must:
(1) Allow infant formula to be issued in all unit sizes that may exceed the maximum monthly allowance. The State agency and contracted infant formula manufacturer must prioritize unit sizes that most closely provide the maximum monthly allowance;
(2) Allow the issuance of non-contract brand infant formulas without medical documentation, with the exception of participants receiving Food Package III as defined in section 246.10(e)(3) of this Part; and
(3) When any contract brand infant formula of the contracted manufacturer is the subject of a recall, require the contracted infant formula manufacturer to:
(i) Provide the State agency with an action plan, within a timeline established within the contract, which includes supply data, to meet infant formula demand and limit disruption to Program participants in the affected jurisdiction(s); and
(ii) Pay rebates on competitive, non-contract brand infant formula that meets the definition of infant formula at 7 CFR 246.2.
[65 FR 51224, Aug. 23, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 11313, Mar. 3, 2008; 73 FR 21811, Apr. 23, 2008; 76 FR 59889, Sept. 28, 2011; 88 FR 86562, Dec. 14, 2023]
§ 246.17
Closeout procedures.
(a)
General.
State agencies shall submit preliminary and final closeout reports for each fiscal year. All obligations shall be liquidated before closure of a fiscal year grant. Obligations shall be reported for the fiscal year in which they occur.
(b)
Fiscal year closeout reports.
State agencies—
(1) Shall submit to FNS, within 30 days after the end of the fiscal year, preliminary financial reports which show cumulative actual expenditures and obligations for the fiscal year, or part thereof, for which Program funds were made available;
(2) Shall submit to FNS, within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year, final fiscal year closeout reports;
(3) May submit revised closeout reports. FNS will reimburse State agencies for additional costs claimed in a revised closeout report up to the State's original grant level, if costs are properly justified and if funds are available for the fiscal year pertaining to the request. FNS will not be responsible for reimbursing State agencies for unreported expenditures later than one year after the end of the fiscal year in which they were incurred.
(c)
Grant closeout procedures.
When grants to State agencies are terminated, the following procedures shall be performed in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(1) FNS may disqualify a State agency's participation under the Program, in whole or in part, or take such remedies as may be legal and appropriate, whenever FNS determines that the State agency failed to comply with the conditions prescribed in this part, in its Federal-State Agreement, or in FNS guidelines and instructions. FNS will promptly notify the State agency in writing of the disqualification together with the effective date. A State agency shall disqualify a local agency by written notice whenever it is determined by FNS or the State agency that the local agency has failed to comply with the requirements of the Program.
(2) FNS or the State agency may disqualify the State agency or restrict its participation in the Program when
both parties agree that continuation under the Program would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The State agency or the local agency may disqualify the local agency or restrict its participation in the Program under the same conditions. The two parties shall agree upon the conditions of disqualification, including the effective date thereof, and, in the case of partial disqualification, the portion to be disqualified.
(3) Upon termination of a grant, the affected agency shall not incur new obligations for the disqualified portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. FNS will allow full credit to the State agency for the Federal share of the noncancellable obligations properly incurred by the State agency prior to disqualification, and the State agency shall do the same for the local agency.
(4) A grant closeout shall not affect the retention period for, or Federal rights of access to, grant records as specified in § 246.25. The closeout of a grant does not affect the State or local agency's responsibilities regarding property or with respect to any Program income for which the State or local agency is still accountable.
(5) A final audit is not a required part of the grant closeout and should not be needed unless there are problems with the grant that require attention. If FNS considers a final audit to be necessary, it shall so inform OIG. OIG will be responsible for ensuring that necessary final audits are performed and for any necessary coordination with other Federal cognizant audit agencies or the State or local auditors. Audits performed in accordance with § 246.20 may serve as final audits providing such audits meet the needs of requesting agencies. If the grant is closed out without the audit, FNS reserves the right to disallow and recover an appropriate amount after fully considering any recommended disallowances resulting from an audit which may be conducted later.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14173, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 246.18
Administrative review of State agency actions.
(a)
Adverse actions subject to administrative reviews
—(1)
Vendor appeals
—(i)
Adverse actions subject to full administrative reviews.
Except as provided elsewhere in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the State agency must provide full administrative reviews to vendors that appeal the following adverse actions:
(A) Denial of authorization based on the application of the vendor selection criteria for minimum variety and quantity of authorized supplemental foods (§ 246.12(g)(3)(i)), or on a determination that the vendor is attempting to circumvent a sanction (§ 246.12(g)(6));
(B) Termination of an agreement for cause;
(C) Disqualification; and
(D) Imposition of a fine or a civil money penalty in lieu of disqualification.
(ii)
Adverse actions subject to abbreviated administrative reviews.
The State agency must provide abbreviated administrative reviews to vendors that appeal the following adverse actions, unless the State agency decides to provide full administrative reviews for any of these types of adverse actions:
(A) Denial of authorization based on the vendor selection criteria for business integrity or for a current SNAP disqualification or civil money penalty for hardship (§ 246.12(g)(3)(ii) and (g)(3)(iii));
(B) Denial of authorization based on the application of the vendor selection criteria for competitive price (§ 246.12(g)(4));
(C) The application of the State agency's vendor peer group criteria and the criteria used to identify vendors that are above-50-percent vendors or comparable to above-50-percent vendors;
(D) Denial of authorization based on a State agency-established vendor selection criterion if the basis of the denial is a WIC vendor sanction or a SNAP withdrawal of authorization or disqualification;
(E) Denial of authorization based on the State agency's vendor limiting criteria (§ 246.12(g)(2));
(F) Denial of authorization because a vendor submitted its application outside the timeframes during which applications are being accepted and processed as established by the State agency under § 246.12(g)(8);
(G) Termination of an agreement because of a change in ownership or location or cessation of operations (§ 246.12(h)(3)(xvii));
(H) Disqualification based on a trafficking conviction (§ 246.12(l)(1)(i));
(I) Disqualification based on the imposition of a SNAP civil money penalty for hardship (§ 246.12(l)(2)(ii)); and
(J) Disqualification or a civil money penalty imposed in lieu of disqualification based on a mandatory sanction imposed by another WIC State agency (§ 246.12(l)(2)(iii)).
(K) A civil money penalty imposed in lieu of disqualification based on a SNAP disqualification under § 246.12(l)(1)(vii) and,
(L) Denial of an application based on a determination of whether an applicant vendor is currently authorized by SNAP.
(iii)
Actions not subject to administrative reviews.
The State agency may not provide administrative reviews pursuant to this section to vendors that appeal the following actions:
(A) The validity or appropriateness of the State agency's vendor limiting criteria (§ 246.12(g)(2)) or vendor selection criteria for minimum variety and quantity of supplemental foods, business integrity, and current Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program disqualification or civil money penalty for hardship (§ 246.12(g)(3));
(B) The validity or appropriateness of the State agency's selection criteria for competitive price (§ 246.12(g)(4)), including, but not limited to, vendor peer group criteria and the criteria used to identify vendors that are above-50-percent vendors or comparable to above-50-percent vendors;
(C) The validity or appropriateness of the State agency's participant access criteria and the State agency's participant access determinations;
(D) The State agency's determination to include or exclude an infant formula manufacturer, wholesaler, distributor, or retailer from the list required pursuant to § 246.12(g)(11);
(E) The validity or appropriateness of the State agency's prohibition of incentive items and the State agency's denial of an above-50-percent vendor's request to provide an incentive item to customers pursuant to § 246.12(h)(8);
(F) The State agency's determination whether to notify a vendor in writing when an investigation reveals an initial violation for which a pattern of violations must be established in order to impose a sanction, pursuant to § 246.12(l)(3);
(G) The State agency's determination whether a vendor had an effective policy and program in effect to prevent trafficking and that the ownership of the vendor was not aware of, did not approve of, and was not involved in the conduct of the violation (§ 246.12(l)(1)(i)(B));
(H) Denial of authorization if the State agency's vendor authorization is subject to the procurement procedures applicable to the State agency;
(I) The expiration of a vendor's agreement;
(J) Disputes regarding food instrument or cash-value voucher payments and vendor claims (other than the opportunity to justify or correct a vendor overcharge or other error, as permitted by § 246.12(k)(3); and
(K) Disqualification of a vendor as a result of disqualification from SNAP (§ 246.12(l)(1)(vii)).
(2)
Effective date of adverse actions against vendors.
The State agency must make denials of authorization and disqualifications imposed under § 246.12(l)(1)(i) effective on the date of receipt of the notice of adverse action. The State agency must make all other adverse actions effective no earlier than 15 days after the date of the notice of the adverse action and no later than 90 days after the date of the notice of adverse action or, in the case of an adverse action that is subject to administrative review, no later than the date the vendor receives the review decision.
(3)
Local agency appeals
—(i)
Adverse actions subject to full administrative reviews.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, the State agency must provide full administrative reviews to local agencies that appeal the following adverse actions:
(A) Denial of a local agency's application;
(B) Disqualification of a local agency; and
(C) Any other adverse action that affects a local agency's participation.
(ii)
Actions not subject to administrative reviews.
The State agency may not provide administrative reviews pursuant to this section to local agencies that appeal the following actions:
(A) Expiration of the local agency's agreement; and
(B) Denial of a local agency's application if the State agency's local agency selection is subject to the procurement procedures applicable to the State agency;
(iii)
Effective date of adverse actions against local agencies.
The State agency must make denials of local agency applications effective immediately. The State agency must make all other adverse actions effective no earlier than 60 days after the date of the notice of the adverse action and no later than 90 days after the date of the notice of adverse action or, in the case of an adverse action that is subject to administrative review, no later than the date the local agency receives the review decision.
(4)
Farmer or farmers' market appeals
—(i)
Adverse actions.
The State agency shall provide a hearing procedure whereby farmers or farmers' markets adversely affected by certain actions of the State agency may appeal those actions. A farmer or farmers' market may appeal an action of the State agency denying its application to participate, imposing a sanction, or disqualifying it from participation in the program. Expiration of an agreement is not subject to appeal.
(ii)
Effective date of adverse actions against farmers or farmers' markets.
The State agency must make denials of authorization and disqualifications effective on the date of receipt of the notice of adverse action. The State agency must make all other adverse actions effective no earlier than 15 days after the date of the notice of the adverse action and no later than 90 days after the date of the notice of adverse action or, in the case of an adverse action that is subject to administrative review, no later than the date the farmer receives the review decision. The State agency must make all other adverse actions effective no earlier than 15 days after the date of the notice of adverse action and no later than 90 days after the date of the notice of adverse action or, in the case of an adverse action that is subject to an administrative review, no later than the date the farmer or farmers' market receives the review decision.
(b)
Full administrative review procedures.
The State agency must develop procedures for a full administrative review of the adverse actions listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section. At a minimum, these procedures must provide the vendor, farmer or farmers' market or local agency with the following:
(1) Written notification of the adverse action, the procedures to follow to obtain a full administrative review and the cause(s) for and the effective date of the action. When a vendor is disqualified due in whole or in part to violations in § 246.12(l)(1), such notification must include the following statement: “This disqualification from WIC may result in disqualification as a retailer in SNAP. Such disqualification is not subject to administrative or judicial review under SNAP.”
(2) The opportunity to appeal the adverse action within a time period specified by the State agency in its notification of adverse action.
(3) Adequate advance notice of the time and place of the administrative review to provide all parties involved sufficient time to prepare for the review.
(4) The opportunity to present its case and at least one opportunity to reschedule the administrative review date upon specific request. The State agency may set standards on how many review dates can be scheduled, provided that a minimum of two review dates is allowed.
(5) The opportunity to cross-examine adverse witnesses. When necessary to protect the identity of WIC Program investigators, such examination may be conducted behind a protective screen or other device (also referred to as an “in camera” examination).
(6) The opportunity to be represented by counsel.
(7) The opportunity to examine prior to the review the evidence upon which the State agency's action is based.
(8) An impartial decision-maker, whose determination is based solely on whether the State agency has correctly applied Federal and State statutes, regulations, policies, and procedures governing the Program, according to the evidence presented at the review. The State agency may appoint a reviewing official, such as a chief hearing officer or judicial officer, to review appeal decisions to ensure that they conform to approved policies and procedures.
(9) Written notification of the review decision, including the basis for the decision, within 90 days from the date of receipt of the request for an administrative review from a vendor, farmer, or farmer's market, and within 60 days from the date of receipt of a local agency's request for an administrative review. These timeframes are only administrative requirements for the State agency and do not provide a basis for overturning the State agency's adverse action if a decision is not made within the specified timeframe.
(c)
Abbreviated administrative review procedures.
Except when the State agency decides to provide full administrative reviews for the adverse actions listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the State agency must develop procedures for an abbreviated administrative review of the adverse actions listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. At a minimum, these procedures must provide the vendor, farmer, or farmers' market with the following:
(1) Written notification of the adverse action, the procedures to follow to obtain an abbreviated administrative review, the cause(s) for and the effective date of the action, and an opportunity to provide a written response; and
(2) A decision-maker who is someone other than the person who rendered the initial decision on the action and whose determination is based solely on whether the State agency has correctly applied Federal and State statutes, regulations, policies, and procedures governing the Program, according to the information provided to the vendor, farmer, or farmers' market concerning the cause(s) for the adverse action and the response from the vendor, farmer, or farmers' market.
(3) Written notification of the review decision, including the basis for the decision, within 90 days of the date of receipt of the request for an administrative review. This timeframe is only an administrative requirement for the State agency and does not provide a basis for overturning the State agency's adverse action if a decision is not made within the specified timeframe.
(d)
Continuing responsibilities.
Appealing an action does not relieve a local agency, farmer or farmers' market or vendor that is permitted to continue program operations while its appeal is in process from the responsibility of continued compliance with the terms of any written agreement with the State agency.
(e)
Finality and effective date of decisions.
The State agency procedures must provide that review decisions rendered under both the full and abbreviated review procedures are the final State agency action. If the adverse action under review has not already taken effect, the State agency must make the action effective on the date of receipt of the review decision by the vendor, farmer or farmers' market or local agency.
(f)
Judicial review.
If the review decision upholds the adverse action against the vendor, farmer or farmers' market or local agency, the State agency must inform the vendor, farmer or farmers' market or local agency that it may be able to pursue judicial review of the decision.
[65 FR 83266, Dec. 29, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 71724, Nov. 29, 2005; 73 FR 68998, Dec. 6, 2007; 73 FR 21811, Apr. 23, 2008; 74 FR 557, Jan. 6, 2009; 74 FR 51759, Oct. 8, 2009; 79 FR 12300, Mar. 4, 2014]

# Subpart F—Monitoring and Review
§ 246.19
Management evaluation and monitoring reviews.
(a)
Management evaluations and reviews.
(1) FNS and each State agency shall establish a management evaluation system in order to assess the accomplishment of Program objectives as provided under this part, FNS guidelines, instructions, and the Federal-
State agreement with the Department. FNS will provide assistance to States in discharging this responsibility, establish standards and procedures to determine how well the objectives of this part are being accomplished, and implement sanction procedures as warranted by State Program performance.
(2) The State agency must submit a corrective action plan, including implementation timeframes, within 60 days of receipt of an FNS management evaluation report containing a finding that the State agency did not comply with program requirements. If FNS determines through a management evaluation or other means that during a fiscal year the State agency has failed, without good cause, to demonstrate efficient and effective administration of its program, or has failed to comply with its corrective action plan, or any other requirements contained in this part or the State Plan, FNS may withhold an amount up to 100 percent of the State agency's nutrition services and administration funds for that year.
(3) Sanctions imposed upon a State agency by FNS in accordance with this section (but not claims for repayment assessed against a State agency) may be appealed in accordance with the procedures established in § 246.22. Before carrying out any sanction against a State agency, the following procedures will be followed:
(i) FNS will notify the Chief State Health Officer or equivalent in writing of the deficiencies found and of FNS' intention to withhold nutrition services and administration funds unless an acceptable corrective action plan is submitted by the State agency to FNS within 60 days after mailing of notification.
(ii) The State agency shall develop a corrective action plan with a schedule according to which the State agency shall accomplish various actions to correct the deficiencies and prevent their future recurrence.
(iii) If the corrective action plan is acceptable, FNS will notify the Chief State Health Officer or equivalent in writing within 30 days of receipt of the plan. The letter approving the corrective action plan will describe the technical assistance that is available to the State agency to correct the deficiencies. The letter will also advise the Chief State Health Officer or equivalent of the sanctions to be imposed if the corrective action plan is not implemented according to the schedule set forth in the approved plan.
(iv) Upon notification from the State agency that corrective action as been taken, FNS will assess such action, and, if necessary, will perform a follow-up review to determine if the noted deficiencies have been corrected. FNS will then advise the State agency of whether the actions taken are in compliance with the corrective action plan, and whether the deficiency is resolved or further corrective action is needed.
(v) If an acceptable corrective action plan is not submitted within 60 days, or if corrective action is not completed according to the schedule established in the corrective action plan, FNS may withhold nutrition services and administration funds through a reduction of the State agency Letter of Credit or by assessing a claim against the State agency. FNS will notify the Chief State Health Officer or equivalent of this action.
(vi) If compliance is achieved before the end of the fiscal year in which the nutrition services and administration funds are withheld, the funds withheld shall be restored to the State agency's Letter of Credit. FNS is not required to restore funds withheld if compliance is not achieved until the subsequent fiscal year. If the 60-day warning period ends in the fourth quarter of a fiscal year, FNS may elect not to withhold funds until the next fiscal year.
(b)
State agency responsibilities.
(1) The State agency shall establish an on-going management evaluation system which includes at least the monitoring of local agency operations, the review of local agency financial and participation reports, the development of corrective action plans to resolve Program deficiencies, the monitoring of the implementation of corrective action plans, and on-site visits. The results of such actions shall be documented.
(2) Monitoring of local agencies must encompass evaluation of management, certification, nutrition education, breastfeeding promotion and support,
participant services, civil rights compliance, accountability, financial management systems, and food delivery systems. If the State agency delegates the signing of vendor agreements, vendor training, or vendor monitoring to a local agency, it must evaluate the local agency's effectiveness in carrying out these responsibilities.
(3) The State agency shall conduct monitoring reviews of each local agency at least once every two years. Such reviews shall include on-site reviews of a minimum of 20 percent of the clinics in each local agency or one clinic, whichever is greater. The State agency may conduct such additional on-site reviews as the State agency determines to be necessary in the interest of the efficiency and effectiveness of the program.
(4) The State agency must promptly notify a local agency of any finding in a monitoring review that the local agency did not comply with program requirements. The State agency must require the local agency to submit a corrective action plan, including implementation timeframes, within 60 days of receipt of a State agency report of a monitoring review containing a finding of program noncompliance. The State agency must monitor local agency implementation of corrective action plans.
(5) As part of the regular monitoring reviews, FNS may require the State agency to conduct in-depth reviews of specified areas of local agency operations, to implement a standard form or protocol for such reviews, and to report the results to FNS. No more than two such areas will be stipulated by FNS for any fiscal year and the areas will not be added or changed more often than once every two fiscal years. These areas will be announced by FNS at least six months before the beginning of the fiscal year.
(6) The State agency shall require local agencies to establish management evaluation systems to review their operations and those of associated clinics or contractors.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 11508, Mar. 11, 1994; 76 FR 59890, Sept. 28, 2011]
§ 246.20
Audits.
(a)
Federal audit responsibilities.
(1) OIG reserves the right to perform audits of State and local agencies and other organizations involved in the Program as determined by OIG to be necessary. In performing such audits, OIG will rely to the extent feasible on audit work performed by other Federal and non-Federal auditors.
(2) The State agency may take exception to particular audit findings and recommendations. The State agency shall submit a response or statement to FNS as to the action taken or a proposed corrective action plan regarding the findings. A proposed corrective action plan developed and submitted by the State agency shall include specific timeframes for its implementation and for completion of correction of deficiencies and their causes.
(3) FNS will determine whether Program deficiencies have been adequately corrected. If additional corrective action is necessary, FNS shall schedule a follow-up review, allowing a reasonable time for such corrective action to be taken.
(b)
State audit responsibilities.
(1) State agencies must obtain annual audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, and appendix XI, Compliance Supplement, and USDA implanting regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. In addition, States must require local agencies under their jurisdiction to obtain audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, and appendix XI, Compliance Supplement, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.
(2) Each State agency shall make all State or local agency sponsored audit reports of Program operations under its jurisdiction available for the Department's review upon request. The cost of these audits shall be considered a part of nutrition services and administration costs and may be funded from the State or local agency nutrition services and administration funds, as appropriate. For purposes of determining the Program's pro rata share of indirect costs associated with organization-wide audits, the cost of food shall
not be considered in the total dollar amount of the Program.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14173, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 246.21
Investigations.
(a)
Authority.
The Department may make an investigation of any allegation of noncompliance with this part and FNS guidelines and instructions. The investigation may include, where appropriate, a review of pertinent practices and policies of any State or local agency, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the State or local agency has failed to comply with the requirements of this part.
(b)
Confidentiality.
No State or local agency, participant, or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege under this part because that person has made a complaint or formal allegation, or has testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this part. The identity of every complainant shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including the conducting of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding.

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 246.22
Administrative appeal of FNS decisions.
(a)
Right to appeal.
When FNS asserts a sanction against a State agency under the provisions of § 246.19, the State agency may appeal and must be afforded a hearing or review by an FNS Administrative Review Officer. The right of appeal shall not apply to claims for repayment assessed by FNS against the State agency under § 246.23(a). A State agency shall have the option of requesting a hearing to present its position or a review of pertinent documents and records including any additional written submission prepared by the State agency.
(1) FNS will send a written notice by Certified Mail-Return Receipt Requested to the state agency or otherwise ensure receipt of such notice by the agency when asserting a sanction against a State agency as specified in § 246.19(a).
(2) A State agency aggrieved by a sanction asserted against it may file a written request with the Director, Administrative Review Division, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 3101 Park Center Drive, Alexandria, Va. 22302, for a hearing or a review of the record. Such request shall be sent by Certified Mail-Return Receipt Requested and postmarked within 30 days of the date of receipt of the sanction notice. The envelope containing the request shall be prominently marked “REQUEST FOR REVIEW OR HEARING.” The request shall clearly identify the specific FNS sanction(s) being appealed and shall include a photocopy of the FNS notice of sanction. If the State agency does not request a review of hearing within 30 days of receipt of the notice, the administrative decision on the sanctions will be considered final.
(b)
Acknowledgment of request.
Within 15 days of receipt by the Director of the Administrative Review Division of a request for review or hearing, the Director will provide the State agency with a written acknowledgment of the request.
(1) The acknowledgment will include the name and address of the FNS Administrative Review Officer to review the sanction;
(2) The acknowledgment will also notify the State agency that within 30 days of the receipt of the acknowledgment, the State agency shall submit three sets of the following information to the Administrative Review Officer—
(i) A clear, concise identification of the issue(s) in dispute;
(ii) The State agency's position with respect to the issue(s) in dispute;
(iii) The pertinent facts and reasons in support of the State agency's position with respect to the issue(s) in dispute and a copy of the specific sanction notice provided by FNS;
(iv) All pertinent documents, correspondence and records which the State agency believes are relevant and
helpful toward a more thorough understanding of the issue(s) in dispute;
(v) The relief sought by the State agency;
(vi) The identity of the person(s) presenting the State agency's position when a hearing is involved; and
(vii) A list of prospective State agency witnesses when a hearing is involved.
(c)
FNS action.
(1) When a hearing is requested pursuant to this section, the Administrative Review Officer will, within 60 days after receipt of the State agency's information, schedule and conduct the hearing. The State agency will be advised of the time, date and location of the hearing at least 10 days in advance.
(2) When a hearing is requested, the FNS Administrative Review Officer will make a final determination within 30 days after the hearing, and the final determination will take effect upon delivery of the written notice of this final decision to the State agency.
(3) When a review is requested, the FNS Administrative Review Officer will review information presented by a State agency and will make a final determination within 30 days after receipt of that information. The final determination will take effect upon delivery of the written notice of this final decision to the State agency.
§ 246.23
Claims and penalties.
(a)
Claims against State agencies.
(1) If FNS determines through a review of the State agency's reports, program or financial analysis, monitoring, audit, or otherwise, that any Program funds provided to a State agency for supplemental foods or nutrition services and administration purposes were, through State or local agency negligence or fraud, misused or otherwise diverted from Program purposes, a formal claim will be assessed by FNS against the State agency. The State agency shall pay promptly to FNS a sum equal to the amount of the nutrition services and administration funds or the value of supplemental foods food instruments, or cash-value vouchers so misused or diverted.
(2) If FNS determines that any part of the Program funds received by a State agency; or supplemental foods, either purchased or donated commodities; or food instruments or cash-value vouchers, were lost as a result of thefts, embezzlements, or unexplained causes, the State agency shall, on demand by FNS, pay to FNS a sum equal to the amount of the money or the value of the supplemental foods, food instruments, or cash-value vouchers so lost.
(3) The State agency shall have full opportunity to submit evidence, explanation or information concerning alleged instances of noncompliance or diversion before a final determination is made in such cases.
(4) FNS will establish a claim against any State agency that has not accounted for the disposition of all redeemed food instruments and cash-value vouchers and taken appropriate follow-up action on all redeemed food instruments and cash-value vouchers that cannot be matched against valid enrollment and issuance records, including cases that may involve fraud, unless the State agency has demonstrated to the satisfaction of FNS that it has:
(i) Made every reasonable effort to comply with this requirement;
(ii) Identified the reasons for its inability to account for the disposition of each redeemed food instrument or cash-value voucher; and
(iii) Provided assurances that, to the extent considered necessary by FNS, it will take appropriate actions to improve its procedures.
(b)
Interest charge on claims against State agencies.
If an agreement cannot be reached with the State agency for payment of its debts or for offset of debts on its current Letter of Credit within 30 days from the date of the first demand letter from FNS, FNS will assess an interest (late) charge against the State agency. Interest accrual shall begin on the 31st day after the date of the first demand letter, bill or claim, and shall be computed monthly on any unpaid balance as long as the debt exists. From a source other than the Program, the State agency shall provide the funds necessary to maintain Program operations at the grant level authorized by FNS.
(c)
Claims
—(1)
Claims against participants.
(i)
Procedures.
If the State agency determines that program benefits have been obtained or disposed of improperly as the result of a participant violation, the State agency must establish a claim against the participant for the full value of such benefits. For all claims, the State agency must issue a letter demanding repayment. If full restitution is not made or a repayment schedule is not agreed on within 30 days of receipt of the letter, the State agency must take additional collection actions until restitution is made or a repayment schedule is agreed on, unless the State agency determines that further collection actions would not be cost-effective. The State agency must establish standards, based on a cost benefit analysis, for determining when collection actions are no longer cost-effective. At the time the State agency issues the demand letter, the State agency must advise the participant of the procedures to follow to obtain a fair hearing pursuant to § 246.9 and that failure to pay the claim may result in disqualification. In addition to establishing a claim, the State agency must determine whether disqualification is required by § 246.12(u)(2).
(ii)
Types of restitution.
In lieu of financial restitution, the State agency may allow participants or parents or caretakers of infant or child participants for whom financial restitution would cause undue hardship to provide restitution by performing in-kind services determined by the State agency. Restitution may not include offsetting the claim against future program benefits, even if agreed to by the participant or the parent or caretaker of an infant or child participant.
(iii)
Disposition of claims.
The State agency must document the disposition of all participant claims.
(2)
Claims against the State agency.
FNS will assert a claim against the State agency for losses resulting from program funds improperly spent as a result of dual participation, if FNS determines that the State agency has not complied with the requirements in § 246.7(l)(1).
(3)
Delegation of claims responsibility.
The State agency may delegate to its local agencies the responsibility for collecting participant claims.
(d)
Penalties.
In accordance with section 12(g) of the National School Lunch Act, whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals or obtains by fraud any funds, assets or property provided under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, whether received directly or indirectly from USDA, or whoever receives, conceals or retains such funds, assets or property for his or her own interest, knowing such funds, assets or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud shall, if such funds, assets or property are of the value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $25,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, or if such funds, assets or property are of a value of less than $100, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 21238, June 4, 1987; 65 FR 83288, Dec. 29, 2000; 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 72 FR 68998, Dec. 6, 2007; 79 FR 12300, Mar. 4, 2014]
§ 246.24
Procurement and property management.
(a)
Requirements.
State and local agencies shall ensure that subgrantees comply with the requirements for the nonprocurement debarment/suspension requirements and, if applicable, the lobbying restrictions as required in 2 CFR part 180, OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-wide Debarment and Suspension, 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, part 415, and part 417 concerning the procurement and allowability of food in bulk lots, supplies, equipment and other services with Program funds. These requirements are adopted to ensure that such materials and services are obtained for the Program in an effective manner and in compliance with the provisions of applicable law and executive orders.
(b)
Contractual responsibilities.
The standards contained in A-130 and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and Appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 do not relieve the State or local agency of
the responsibilities arising under its contracts. The State agency is the responsible authority, without recourse to FNS, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in connection with the Program. This includes, but is not limited to, disputes, claims, protests of award, source evaluation, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to such local, State or Federal authority as may have proper jurisdiction.
(c)
State regulations.
The State or local agency may use its own procurement regulations which reflect applicable State and local regulations, provided that procurements made with Program funds adhere to the standards set forth in A-130 and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and Appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(d)
Property acquired with Program funds.
State and local agencies shall observe the standards prescribed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 in their utilization and disposition of real property and equipment, including automated data processing equipment, acquired in whole or in part with Program funds.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 11508, Mar. 11, 1994; 81 FR 66494, 66495, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 246.25
Records and reports.
(a)
Recordkeeping requirements.
Each State and local agency shall maintain full and complete records concerning Program operations. Such records shall comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and the following requirements:
(1) Records shall include, but not be limited to, information pertaining to financial operations, food delivery systems, food instrument issuance and redemption, equipment purchases and inventory, certification, nutrition education, including breastfeeding promotion and support, civil rights and fair hearing procedures.
(2) All records shall be retained for a minimum of three years following the date of submission of the final expenditure report for the period to which the report pertains. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started before the end of the three-year period, the records shall be kept until all issues are resolved, or until the end of the regular three-year period, whichever is later. If FNS deems any of the Program records to be of historical interest, it may require the State or local agency to forward such records to FNS whenever either agency is disposing of them.
(3) Records for nonexpendable property acquired in whole or in part with Program funds shall be retained for three years after its final disposition.
(4) All records shall be available during normal business hours for representatives of the Department and the Comptroller General of the United States to inspect, audit, and copy. Any reports or other documents resulting from the examination of such records that are publicly released may not include confidential applicant or participant information.
(b)
Financial and participation reports
—(1)
Monthly reports.
(i) State agencies must submit financial and program performance data on a monthly basis, as specified by FNS, to support program management and funding decisions. Such information must include, but may not be limited to:
(A) Actual and projected participation;
(B) Actual and projected food funds expenditures;
(C) Actual and projected rebate payments received from manufacturers.
(D) A listing by source year of food and NSA funds available for expenditure; and,
(E) NSA expenditures and unliquidated obligations.
(ii) State agencies must require local agencies to report such financial and participation information as is necessary for the efficient management of food and NSA funds expenditures.
(2)
Annual reports.
(i) Every year, State agencies must report to FNS the average number of migrant farmworker household members participating in
the Program during a 12-month period of time specified by FNS.
(ii) State agencies must submit itemized NSA expenditure reports annually as an addendum to their WIC Program closeout reports, as required by § 246.17(b)(2).
(iii) The State agency must submit local agency breastfeeding participation data on an annual basis to FNS.
(3)
Biennial reports.
(i)
Participant characteristics report.
State and local agencies must provide such information as may be required by FNS to provide a biennial participant characteristics report. This includes, at a minimum, information on income and nutritional risk characteristics of participants, information on breastfeeding incidence and duration, and participation in the Program by category (i.e., pregnant, breastfeeding and postpartum women, infants and children) within each priority level (as established in § 246.7(e)(4)) and by migrant farmworker households.
(ii)
Civil rights report.
Racial and ethnic participation data contained in the biennial participant characteristics report will also be used to fulfill civil rights reporting requirements.
(c)
Other reports.
State agencies must submit reports to reflect additions and deletions of local agencies administering the WIC Program and local agency address changes as these events occur.
(d)
Source documentation.
To be acceptable for audit purposes, all financial and Program performance reports shall be traceable to source documentation.
(e)
Certification of reports.
Financial and Program reports shall be certified as to their completeness and accuracy by the person given that responsibility by the State agency.
(f)
Use of reports.
FNS will use State agency reports to measure progress in achieving objectives set forth in the State Plan, and this part, or other State agency performance plans. If it is determined, through review of State agency reports, Program or financial analysis, or an audit, that a State agency is not meeting the objectives set forth in its State Plan, FNS may request additional information including, but not limited to, reasons for failure to achieve its objectives.
(g)
Extension of reporting deadline.
FNS may extend the due date for any Financial and Participation Report upon receiving a justified request from the State agency. The State agency should not wait until the due date if an extension is to be requested, but should submit the request as soon as the need is known. Failure by a State agency to submit a report by its due date may result in appropriate enforcement actions by FNS in accordance with § 246.19(a)(2), including withholding of further grant payments, suspension or termination of the grant.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 21238, June 4, 1987; 53 FR 15653, May 3, 1988; 59 FR 11508, Mar. 11, 1994; 65 FR 53528, Sept. 5, 2000; 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 72 FR 24183, May 2, 2007; 76 FR 59890, Sept. 27, 2011; 81 FR 66494, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 246.26
Other provisions.
(a)
No aid reduction.
The value of benefits or assistance available under the Program shall not be considered as income or resources of participants or their families for any purpose under Federal, State, or local laws, including, but not limited to, laws relating to taxation, welfare and public assistance programs.
(b)
Statistical information.
FNS reserves the right to use information obtained under the Program in a summary, statistical or other form which does not identify particular individuals.
(c)
Medical information.
FNS may require the State or local agencies to supply medical data and other information collected under the Program in a form that does not identify particular individuals, to enable the Secretary or the State agencies to evaluate the effect of food intervention upon low-income individuals determined to be at nutritional risk.
(d)
Confidentiality of applicant and participant information
—(1)
WIC purposes.
(i) Confidential applicant and participant information is any information about an applicant or participant, whether it is obtained from the applicant or participant, another source, or generated as a result of WIC
application, certification, or participation, that individually identifies an applicant or participant and/or family member(s). Applicant or participant information is confidential, regardless of the original source and exclusive of previously applicable confidentiality provided in accordance with other Federal, State or local law.
(ii) Except as otherwise permitted by this section, the State agency must restrict the use and disclosure of confidential applicant and participant information to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the WIC Program whom the State agency determine have a need to know the information for WIC Program purposes. These persons may include, but are not limited to: personnel from its local agencies and other WIC State or local agencies; persons under contract with the State agency to perform research regarding the WIC Program, and persons investigating or prosecuting WIC Program violations under Federal, State or local law.
(2)
Non-WIC purposes.
(i)
Use by WIC State and local agencies.
Any WIC State or local agency may use confidential applicant and participant information in the administration of its other programs that serve persons eligible for the WIC Program in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(ii)
Disclosure to public organizations.
The State agency and its local agencies may disclose confidential applicant and participant information to public organizations for use in the administration of their programs that serve persons eligible for the WIC Program in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
(3)
Child abuse and neglect reporting.
Staff of the State agency and its local agencies who are required by State law to report known or suspected child abuse or neglect may disclose confidential applicant and participant information without the consent of the participant or applicant to the extent necessary to comply with such law.
(4)
Release forms.
Except in the case of subpoenas or search warrants (see paragraph (i) of this section), the State agency and its local agencies may disclose confidential applicant and participant information to individuals or entities not listed in this section only if the affected applicant or participant signs a release form authorizing the disclosure and specifying the parties to which the information may be disclosed. The State or local agency must permit applicants and participants to refuse to sign the release form and must notify the applicants and participants that signing the form is not a condition of eligibility and refusing to sign the form will not affect the applicant's or participant's application or participation in the WIC Program. Release forms authorizing disclosure to private physicians or other health care providers may be included as part of the WIC application or certification process. All other requests for applicants or participants to sign voluntary release forms must occur after the application and certification process is completed.
(5)
Access to information by applicants and participants.
The State or local agency must provide applicants and participants access to all information they have provided to the WIC Program. In the case of an applicant or participant who is an infant or child, the access may be provided to the parent or guardian of the infant or child, assuming that any issues regarding custody or guardianship have been settled. However, the State or local agency need not provide the applicant or participant (or the parent or guardian of an infant or child) access to any other information in the file or record such as documentation of income provided by third parties and staff assessments of the participant's condition or behavior, unless required by Federal, State, or local law or policy or unless the information supports a State or local agency decision being appealed pursuant to § 246.9.
(e)
Confidentiality of vendor information.
Confidential vendor information is any information about a vendor (whether it is obtained from the vendor or another source) that individually identifies the vendor, except for vendor's name, address, telephone number, Web site/e-mail address, store type, and authorization status. Except as otherwise permitted by this section, the State agency must restrict the use or
disclosure of confidential vendor information to:
(1) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the WIC Program or SNAP who the State agency determines have a need to know the information for purposes of these programs. These persons may include personnel from its local agencies and other WIC State and local agencies and persons investigating or prosecuting WIC or SNAP violations under Federal, State, or local law;
(2) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of any Federal or State law or local law or ordinance. Prior to releasing the information to one of these parties (other than a Federal agency), the State agency must enter into a written agreement with the requesting party specifying that such information may not be used or redisclosed except for purposes directly connected to the administration or enforcement of a Federal, or State law; and
(3) A vendor that is subject to an adverse action, including a claim, to the extent that the confidential information concerns the vendor subject to the adverse action and is related to the adverse action.
(4) At the discretion of the State agency, all authorized vendors and vendor applicants regarding vendor sanctions which have been imposed, identifying only the vendor's name, address, length of the disqualification or amount of the civil money penalty, and a summary of the reason(s) for such sanction provided in the notice of adverse action. Such information may be disclosed only following the exhaustion of all administrative and judicial review, in which the State agency has prevailed, regarding the sanction imposed on the subject vendor, or the time period for requesting such review has expired.
(f)
Confidentiality of SNAP retailer information.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the State agency must restrict the use or disclosure of information about SNAP retailers obtained from SNAP, including information provided pursuant to Section 9(c) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2018(c)) and § 278.1(q) of this chapter, to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the WIC Program.
(g)
USDA and the Comptroller General.
The State agency must provide the Department and the Comptroller General of the United States access to all WIC Program records, including confidential vendor, applicant and participant information, pursuant to § 246.25(a)(4).
(h)
Requirements for use and disclosure of confidential applicant and participant information for non-WIC purposes.
The State or local agency must take the following steps before using or disclosing confidential applicant or participant information for non-WIC purposes pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(1)
Designation by chief State health officer.
The chief State health officer (or, in the case of an Indian State agency, the governing authority) must designate in writing the permitted non-WIC uses of the information and the names of the organizations to which such information may be disclosed.
(2)
Notice to applicants and participants.
The applicant or participant must be notified either at the time of application (in accordance with § 246.7(i)(11)) or through a subsequent notice that the chief State health officer (or, in the case of an Indian State agency, the governing authority) may authorize the use and disclosure of information about their participation in the WIC Program for non-WIC purposes. This statement must also indicate that such information will be used by State and local WIC agencies and public organizations only in the administration of their programs that serve persons eligible for the WIC Program.
(3)
Written agreement and State plan.
The State or local agency disclosing the information must enter into a written agreement with the other public organization or, in the case of a non-WIC use by a State or local WIC agency, the unit of the State or local agency that will be using the information. The State agency must also include in its State plan, as specified in § 246.4(a)(24), a list of all organizations (including units of the State agency or local agencies) with which the State agency or its local agencies has executed or intends to execute a written
agreement. The written agreement must:
(i) Specify that the receiving organization may use the confidential applicant and participant information only for:
(A) Establishing the eligibility of WIC applicants or participants for the programs that the organization administers;
(B) Conducting outreach to WIC applicants and participants for such programs;
(C) Enhancing the health, education, or well-being of WIC applicants or participants who are currently enrolled in such programs, including the reporting of known or suspected child abuse or neglect that is not otherwise required by State law;
(D) Streamlining administrative procedures in order to minimize burdens on staff, applicants, or participants in either the receiving program or the WIC Program; and/or
(E) Assessing and evaluating the responsiveness of a State's health system to participants' health care needs and health care outcomes; and
(ii) Contain the receiving organization's assurance that it will not use the information for any other purpose or disclose the information to a third party.
(i)
Subpoenas and search warrants.
The State agency may disclose confidential applicant, participant, or vendor information pursuant to a valid subpoena or search warrant in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
Subpoena procedures.
In determining how to respond to a subpoena duces tecum (i.e., a subpoena for documents) or other subpoena for confidential information, the State or local agency must use the following procedures:
(i) Upon receiving the subpoena, immediately notify its State agency;
(ii) Consult with legal counsel for the State or local agency and determine whether the information requested is in fact confidential and prohibited by this section from being used or disclosed as stated in the subpoena;
(iii) If the State or local agency determines that the information is confidential and prohibited from being used or disclosed as stated in the subpoena, attempt to quash the subpoena unless the State or local agency determines that disclosing the confidential information is in the best interest of the Program. The determination to disclose confidential information without attempting to quash the subpoena should be made only infrequently; and,
(iv) If the State or local agency seeks to quash the subpoena or decides that disclosing the confidential information is in the best interest of the Program, inform the court or the receiving party that this information is confidential and seek to limit the disclosure by:
(A) Providing only the specific information requested in the subpoena and no other information; and,
(B) Limiting to the greatest extent possible the public access to the confidential information disclosed.
(2)
Search warrant procedures.
In responding to a search warrant for confidential information, the State or local agency must use the following procedures:
(i) Upon receiving the search warrant, immediately notify its State agency;
(ii) Immediately notify legal counsel for the State or local agency;
(iii) Comply with the search warrant; and,
(iv) Inform the individual(s) serving the search warrant that the information being sought is confidential and seek to limit the disclosure by:
(A) Providing only the specific information requested in the search warrant and no other information; and
(B) Limiting to the greatest extent possible the public access to the confidential information disclosed.
(j)
Data collection related to local agencies.
(1) Each State agency must collect data related to local agencies that have an agreement with the State agency to participate in the program for each of Federal fiscal years 2006 through 2009, including those local agencies that participated only for part of the fiscal year. Such data shall include:
(i) The name of each local agency;
(ii) The city in which each local agency was headquartered and the name of the state;
(iii) The amount of funds provided to the participating organization, i.e., the amount of federal funds provided for
nutrition services and administration to each participating local agency; and
(iv) The type of participating organization, e.g., government agency, educational institution, non-profit organization/secular, non-profit organization/faith-based, and “other.”
(2) On or before August 31, 2007, and each subsequent year through 2010, State agencies must report to FNS data as specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for the prior Federal fiscal year. State agencies must submit this data in a format designated by FNS.
(k)
Program evaluations.
State and local WIC agencies and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786).
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 35301, Sept. 13, 1988; 65 FR 83288, Dec. 29, 2000; 71 FR 56731, Sept. 27, 2006; 72 FR 24184, May 2, 2007; 73 FR 21811, Apr. 23, 2008; 76 FR 37983, June 29, 2011]
§ 246.27
Program information.
Any person who wishes information, assistance, records or other public material shall request such information from the State agency, or from the FNS Regional Office serving the appropriate State as listed below:
(a) Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Northeast Region, 10 Causeway Street, room 501, Boston, Massachusetts 02222-1066.
(b) Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Virginia, Virgin Islands, West Virginia: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Mid-Atlantic Region, Mercer Corporate Park, 300 Corporate Boulevard, Robbinsville, New Jersey 08691-1598.
(c) Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Southeast Region, 61 Forsyth Street, SW., room 8T36, Atlanta, Georgia 30303.
(d) Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Midwest Region, 77 West Jackson Boulevard—20th Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60604-3507.
(e) Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Southwest Region, 1100 Commerce Street, room 5-C-30, Dallas, Texas 75242.
(f) Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Mountain Plains Region, 1244 Speer Boulevard, suite 903, Denver, Colorado 80204.
(g) Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Washington: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Western Region,90 Seventh Street, Suite #10-100, San Francisco, California 94103.
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985; 50 FR 8098, Feb. 28, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 11508, Mar. 11, 1994; 71 FR 56733, Sept. 27, 2006; 73 FR 11314, Mar. 3, 2008]
§ 246.28
OMB control numbers.
The following control numbers have been assigned to the information collection requirements in 7 CFR part 246 by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-511.
7 CFR part 246 section where requirements are described
Current OMB control no.
.4(a) (8), (9), (11)
0584-0386
.5
0584-0043
.6
0584-0043
.7(a)
0584-0386
.7(e), (h), (j)
0584-0043
.7(n)
0584-0386
.7(i)
0584-A536
.10
0584-A536
.11(a)(3)
0584-0386
.11(d)
0584-0043
.12(f), (i), (i)(3), (j)
0584-0043
.14(d)(1)
0584-0043
.16(c)
0584-0043
.17(c)(1)
0584-0043
.19
0584-0043
.20(a)
0584-0043
.25(a), (b)
0584-0043, 0584-0347
[50 FR 6121, Feb. 13, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 15653, May 3, 1988; 54 FR 51295, Dec. 14, 1989; 58 FR 11507, Feb. 26, 1993]
§ 246.29
Waivers of program requirements.
(a)
Required conditions.
The Secretary may waive or modify any qualified administrative requirement for one or more State agencies during an emergency period or supply chain disruption. Waivers or modifications may be issued following a State agency request or at the discretion of the Secretary. To be considered, a waiver or modification issued under this Section must meet the following requirements:
(1) The qualified administrative requirement cannot be implemented during any part of the emergency period or supply chain disruption.
(2) The waiver or modification is necessary to serve participants and does not substantially weaken the nutritional quality of supplemental foods.
(3) The waiver or modification would not result in material impairment of any statutory or regulatory rights of participants or potential participants as set forth at 7 CFR 246.8 or 7 CFR parts 15, 15a and 15b.
(4) The waiver or modification would not create a barrier to participation.
(5) The waiver or modification would not create additional eligibility requirements for participation.
(6) The waiver or modification would comply with 7 CFR 246.13(b).
(7) The waiver or modification must offer substitution options with similar nutritional quality, that most closely provide the maximum monthly allowance of supplemental foods, and that do not create new supplemental food categories as set forth in 7 CFR 246.10(e)(12) Table 4.
(8) A State agency that requests a waiver or modification meets additional requirements for the request and approval as determined necessary by FNS.
(b)
Timeframes for waiver request and use.
(1) Waiver starts. A waiver or modification may be granted any time during an emergency period or supply chain disruption.
(2) Waiver duration.
(i) A waiver or modification established during an emergency period may be available for the emergency period and up to 60 days after the end of the emergency period.
(ii) A waiver or modification established during a supply chain disruption may be available for:
(A) a period of up to 45 days from the date of waiver issuance and renewed with at least 15 days' notice provided by the Secretary; and
(B) no more than 60 days after the supply chain disruption declaration ceases to exist.
(c)
State agency waiver requests.
State agencies shall submit requests for a modification or waiver for USDA approval. Requests shall include but not necessarily be limited to:
(1) The qualified administrative requirement the State agency is requesting to modify or waive (including the statutory or regulatory citation) and an explanation for why it cannot be met;
(2) Justification for why the waiver is necessary to continue WIC services;
(3) An explanation that the waiver meets the conditions set forth in 7 CFR 246.29(a);
(4) The emergency period or supply chain disruption under which the request is being made;
(5) The period for which the flexibility is being requested.
[88 FR 86563, Dec. 14, 2023]
Pt. 247

# PART 247—COMMODITY SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM
Sec.
247.1
Definitions.
247.2
The purpose and scope of CSFP.
247.3
Administering agencies.
247.4
Agreements.
247.5
State and local agency responsibilities.
247.6
State Plan.
247.7
Selection of local agencies.
247.8
Individuals applying to participate in CSFP.
247.9
Eligibility requirements.
247.10
Distribution and use of USDA Foods.
247.11
Applicants exceed caseload levels.
247.12
Rights and responsibilities.
247.13
Provisions for non-English or limited-English speakers.
247.14
Other public assistance programs.
247.15
Notification of eligibility or ineligibility of applicant.
247.16
Certification period.
247.17
Notification of discontinuance of participant.
247.18
Nutrition education.
247.19
Dual participation.
247.20
Program violations.
247.21
Caseload assignment.
247.22
Allocation and disbursement of administrative funds to State agencies.
247.23
State provision of administrative funds to local agencies.
247.24
Recovery and redistribution of caseload and administrative funds.
247.25
Allowable uses of administrative funds and other funds.
247.26
Return of administrative funds.
247.27
Financial management.
247.28
Storage and inventory of USDA Foods.
247.29
Reports and recordkeeping.
247.30
Claims.
247.31
Audits and investigations.
247.32
Termination of agency participation.
247.33
Fair hearings.
247.34
Management reviews.
247.35
Local agency appeals of State agency actions.
247.36
Confidentiality of applicants or participants.
247.37
Civil rights requirements.

# Authority:
Sec. 5, Pub. L. 93-86, 87 Stat. 249, as added by Sec. 1304(b)(2), Pub. L. 95-113, 91 Stat. 980 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 1335, Pub. L. 97-98, 95 Stat. 1293 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 209, Pub. L. 98-8, 97 Stat. 35 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 2(8), Pub. L. 98-92, 97 Stat. 611 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 1562, Pub. L. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1590 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 101(k), Pub. L. 100-202; sec. 1771(a), Pub. L. 101-624, 101 Stat. 3806 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec 402(a), Pub. L. 104-127, 110 Stat. 1028 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 4201, Pub. L. 107-171, 116 Stat. 134 (7 U.S.C. 7901 note); sec. 4221, Pub. L. 110-246, 122 Stat. 1886 (7 U.S.C. 612c note); sec. 4221, Pub. L. 113-79, 7 U.S.C. 612c note).

# Source:
70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 247 appear at 89 FR 87228, Oct. 31, 2024.
§ 247.1
Definitions.
Following is a list of definitions that apply to the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP).
2 CFR part 200,
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
Applicant
means any person who applies to receive program benefits. Applicants include program participants applying for recertification.
Caseload
means the number of persons the State agency may serve on an average monthly basis over the course of the caseload cycle.
Caseload cycle
means the period from January 1 through the following December 31.
Certification
means the use of procedures to determine an applicant's eligibility for the program.
Certification period
means the period during which a CSFP participant may continue to receive benefits under CSFP without a formal review of eligibility.
CSFP
means the Commodity Supplemental Food Program.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Disqualification
means the act of ending Program participation of a participant as a punitive sanction.
Dual participation
means the simultaneous participation by an individual in CSFP at more than one distribution site.
Fiscal year
means the period from October 1 through the following September 30.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service.
Local agency
means a public or private nonprofit agency, including an Indian tribal organization, which enters into an agreement with the State agency to administer CSFP at the local level.
Nonprofit agency
means a private agency or organization with tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code, or that has applied for tax-exempt status with the Internal Revenue Service.
Proxy
means any person designated by a participant or caretaker to obtain USDA Foods on behalf of the participant.
7 CFR part 250
means the Department's regulations pertaining to the donation of foods for use in USDA food distribution programs.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
State agency
means the agency designated by the State to administer CSFP at the State level; an Indian tribe or tribal organization recognized by the Department of the Interior that administers the program for a specified tribe or tribes; or, the appropriate area office of the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services.
State Plan
means the document that describes the manner in which the State agency intends to administer the program in the State.
Subdistributing agency
means an agency or organization that has entered into an agreement with the State agency to perform functions normally performed by the State, such as entering into agreements with eligible recipient agencies under which USDA Foods are made available, ordering USDA Foods and/or making arrangements for the storage and delivery of such USDA Foods on behalf of eligible recipient agencies.
USDA Foods
means nutritious foods purchased by USDA to supplement the diets of CSFP participants, also referred to as donated foods.
USDA implementing regulations
include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 66495, Sept. 28, 2016; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020, 89 FR 87244, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.2
The purpose and scope of CSFP.
(a)
How does CSFP help participants?
Through CSFP, the Department provides nutritious USDA Foods to help State and local agencies meet the nutritional needs of low-income participants. Food packages include such nutritious foods as canned fruits and vegetables, canned meat, poultry and other protein items, and grain products such as pasta, as well as other foods. Participants are offered the opportunity to receive nutrition education.
(b)
How many persons may be served in CSFP?
State agencies may serve eligible persons up to the caseload limit assigned to them by FNS. Caseload is the number of persons that may be served on an average monthly basis over the course of the caseload cycle, which extends from January 1 through the following December 31.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38750, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87244, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.3
Administering agencies.
(a)
What agencies are responsible for administering CSFP?
CSFP is administered at the Federal level by the Department's Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), which provides USDA Foods, assigns caseload, and allocates administrative funds to State agencies. State agencies are responsible for administering the program at the State level. The State agency may select local agencies to administer the program in local areas of the State. The State agency must provide guidance to local agencies on all aspects of program operations. The State agency may also select subdistributing agencies (e.g., another State agency, a local governmental agency, or a nonprofit organization) to distribute or store USDA Foods, or to perform other program functions on behalf of the State agency. Local or subdistributing agencies may also select other agencies to perform specific program functions (e.g., food distribution or storage), with the State agency's approval. Although the State agency may select other organizations to perform specific activities, the State agency is ultimately responsible for all aspects of program administration.
(b)
Are there specific functions that the State agency cannot delegate to another agency?
Yes. The State agency may not delegate the performance of the following functions to another agency:
(1) Establishing eligibility requirements, in accordance with the options
provided to the State agency under § 247.9; or
(2) Establishing a management review system and conducting reviews of local agencies, in accordance with § 247.34.
(c)
What Federal requirements must State, subdistributing, and local agencies follow in administering CSFP?
State, subdistributing, and local agencies must administer the program in accordance with the provisions of this part, and with the provisions contained in part 250 of this chapter, unless they are inconsistent with the provisions of this part.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 87244, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.4
Agreements.
(a)
What agreements are necessary for agencies to administer CSFP?
The following agreements are necessary for agencies to administer CSFP:
(1)
Agreements between FNS and State agencies.
Each State agency must enter into an agreement with FNS (Form FNS-74, the Federal-State Agreement) prior to receiving USDA Foods or administrative funds;
(2)
Agreements between State agencies and local or subdistributing agencies.
The State agency must enter into written agreements with local or subdistributing agencies prior to making USDA Foods or administrative funds available to them. The agreements must contain the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Agreements between State and local agencies must also contain the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Copies of all agreements must be kept on file by the parties to the agreements; and
(3)
Agreements between local and subdistributing agencies and other agencies.
The State agency must ensure that local and subdistributing agencies enter into written agreements with other agencies prior to making USDA Foods or administrative funds available to these other agencies. The agreements must contain the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Copies of all agreements must be kept on file by the parties to the agreements.
(b)
What are the required contents of agreements?
All agreements described under paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section must contain the following:
(1) An assurance that each agency will administer the program in accordance with the provisions of this part and with the provisions of part 250 of this chapter, unless they are inconsistent with the provisions of this part;
(2) An assurance that each agency will maintain accurate and complete records for a period of three years from the close of the fiscal year to which they pertain, or longer if the records are related to unresolved claims actions, audits, or investigations;
(3) A statement that each agency receiving USDA Foods for distribution is responsible for any loss resulting from improper distribution, or improper storage, care, or handling of USDA Foods;
(4) A statement that each agency receiving program funds is responsible for any misuse of program funds;
(5) A description of the specific functions that the State, subdistributing, or local agency is delegating to another agency; and
(6) A statement specifying:
(i) That either party may terminate the agreement by written notice to the other; and
(ii) The minimum number of days of advance notice that must be given. (The advance notification period must be at least 30 days.)
(c)
What other assurances or information must be included in agreements between State and local agencies?
In addition to the requirements under paragraph (b) of this section, agreements between State and local agencies must contain the following:
(1) An assurance that the local agency will provide, or cause to be provided, nutrition education to participants, as required in § 247.18;
(2) An assurance that the local agency will provide information to participants on other health, nutrition, and public assistance programs, and make referrals as appropriate, as required in § 247.14;
(3) An assurance that the local agency will distribute USDA Foods in accordance with the approved food package guide rate;
(4) An assurance that the local agency will take steps to prevent and detect dual participation, as required in § 247.19;
(5) The names and addresses of all certification, distribution, and storage sites under the jurisdiction of the local agency; and
(6) An assurance that the local agency will not subject any person to discrimination under the program on the grounds of race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability.
(d)
What is the duration of required agreements?
Agreements between FNS and State agencies are considered permanent, but may be amended at the initiation of State agencies or at the request of FNS. All amendments must be approved by FNS. The State agency establishes the duration of agreements it signs with local agencies or subdistributing agencies. The State agency may establish, or permit the local or subdistributing agency to establish, the duration of agreements between local or subdistributing agencies and other agencies. However, State and local agencies must comply with the requirements in § 250.4 of this chapter when entering into agreements with other entities.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0584-0067, 0584-0293)
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87244, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.5
State and local agency responsibilities.
State and local agencies are responsible for administering the program in accordance with the provisions of this part, and with the provisions of part 250 of this chapter, as applicable. Although the State agency may delegate some responsibilities to another agency, the State agency is ultimately responsible for all aspects of program administration. The following is an outline of the major responsibilities of State and local agencies; it is not intended to be all-inclusive.
(a)
What are the major responsibilities shared by State and local agencies?
The major responsibilities shared by State and local agencies include:
(1) Entering into required agreements;
(2) Ordering USDA Foods for distribution;
(3) Storing and distributing USDA Foods;
(4) Establishing procedures for resolving complaints about USDA Foods;
(5) Complying with civil rights requirements;
(6) Maintaining accurate and complete records; and
(7) Conducting program outreach.
(b)
What are the major State agency responsibilities?
The major responsibilities of State agencies include:
(1) Completing and submitting the State Plan;
(2) Selecting local agencies to administer the program in local areas of the State;
(3) Determining caseload needs, and submitting caseload requests to FNS;
(4) Assigning caseload, and allocating administrative funds, to local agencies;
(5) Establishing eligibility requirements, in accordance with the options provided to the State agency under § 247.9. (This function may not be delegated to another agency.);
(6) Establishing nutritional risk criteria and a residency requirement for participants, if such criteria are to be used;
(7) Establishing a financial management system that effectively accounts for funds received for program administration;
(8) Developing a plan for the detection and prevention of dual participation, in coordination with CSFP local agencies;
(9) Developing a plan for providing nutrition education to participants;
(10) Establishing appeals and fair hearing procedures for local agencies and program participants;
(11) Developing a management review system and conducting reviews of local agencies. (This function may not be delegated to another agency.);
(12) Determining and pursuing claims, and establishing standards for pursuit of claims against participants;
(13) Ensuring compliance with Federal audit requirements;
(14) Providing guidance to local agencies, as needed;
(15) Ensuring that program participation does not exceed the State agency's caseload allocation on an average monthly basis;
(16) Making publicly available a list of all CSFP local agencies on a publicly available internet web page. The State agency must post the name, address, and telephone number for each local agency. The list must be updated, at a minimum, on an annual basis; and
(17) Posting the State Plan that is currently in use on a publicly available internet web page.
(c)
What are the major local agency responsibilities?
The major local agency responsibilities include:
(1) Determining eligibility of applicants in accordance with eligibility criteria established by the State agency;
(2) Complying with fiscal and operational requirements established by the State agency;
(3) Ensuring that participation does not exceed the caseload assigned by the State agency;
(4) Issuing foods to participants in accordance with the established food package guide rates;
(5) Providing nutrition education and information on the availability of other nutrition and health assistance programs to participants;
(6) Informing applicants of their rights and responsibilities in the program;
(7) Meeting the special needs of homebound participants, to the extent possible; and
(8) Pursuing claims against participants.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38750, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87244, Oct. 31, 2024; 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024]
§ 247.6
State Plan.
(a)
What is the State Plan?
The State Plan is a document that describes how the State agency will operate CSFP and the caseload needed to serve eligible applicants. The State agency must submit the State Plan to FNS for approval. Once submitted and approved, the State Plan is considered permanent, with amendments submitted at the State agency's initiative, or at FNS request. All amendments are subject to FNS approval. The State Plan may be submitted in the format provided in FNS guidance, in an alternate format, or in combination with other documents required by Federal regulations. The State Plan must be signed by the State agency official responsible for program administration. A copy of the State Plan must be kept on file at the State agency and must also be posted on a publicly available internet web page for public inspection.
(b)
When must the State Plan be submitted?
The State Plan must be submitted by August 15 to take effect for the fiscal year beginning in the following October. FNS will provide notification of the approval or disapproval of the State Plan within 30 days of receipt, and will notify the State agency within 15 days of receipt if additional information is needed. Disapproval of the Plan will include a reason for the disapproval. Approval of the Plan is a prerequisite to the assignment of caseload and allocation of administrative funds, but does not ensure that caseload and funds will be provided.
(c)
What must be included in the State Plan?
The State Plan must include:
(1) The names and addresses of all local agencies and subdistributing agencies with which the State agency has entered into agreement;
(2) The income eligibility standards and the options to be used relating to income or other eligibility requirements, as provided under § 247.9;
(3) The nutritional risk criteria to be used, if the State chooses to establish such criteria;
(4) A description of plans for serving participants and the caseload needed to serve them;
(5) A description of plans for conducting outreach to participants;
(6) A description of the system for storing and distributing USDA Foods;
(7) A description of plans for providing nutrition education to participants;
(8) A description of the means by which the State agency will detect and prevent dual participation;
(9) A description of the standards the State agency will use in determining if the pursuit of a claim against a participant is cost-effective;
(10) A description of the means by which the State will meet the needs of homebound participants;
(11) Copies of all agreements entered into by the State agency;
(12) The length of the State agency's certification period; and
(13) A description of the process in place to verify the identity of participants before receipt of USDA Foods.
(d)
When must the State agency submit amendments to the State Plan?
The State agency must submit amendments to FNS to reflect any changes in program operations or administration described in the State Plan, and to request additional caseload for the following caseload cycle. FNS may also require that the State Plan be amended to reflect changes in Federal law or policy. The State agency may submit amendments to the State Plan at any time during the fiscal year, for FNS approval. The amendments will take effect immediately upon approval, unless otherwise specified by FNS. If a State agency would like to receive additional caseload for the caseload cycle beginning the following January 1, it must submit an amendment to the Plan which conveys the request for additional caseload by November 5. The State agency must also describe in this submission any plans for serving participants at new sites. FNS action on the State agency's request for additional caseload is part of the caseload assignment process, as described under § 247.21.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38750, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87245, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.7
Selection of local agencies.
(a)
How does a local agency apply to participate in CSFP?
Local agencies wishing to participate in CSFP must submit a written application to the State agency. The application must describe how the local agency will operate the program and, for nonprofit agencies, must include the agency's tax-exempt status. To be eligible to participate in CSFP, a nonprofit agency must have tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), or have applied for tax-exempt status with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and be moving towards such status. Nonprofit agencies organized or operated exclusively for religious purposes are automatically tax-exempt under the IRC. Nonprofit agencies required to obtain tax-exempt status must provide documentation from the IRS that they have obtained such status, or have applied for it.
(b)
On what basis does the State agency make a decision on the local agency's application?
The State agency must approve or disapprove the local agency's application based on, at minimum, the following criteria:
(1) The ability of the local agency to operate the program in accordance with Federal and State requirements;
(2) The need for the program in the projected service area of the local agency;
(3) The resources available (caseload and funds) for initiating a program in the local area; and
(4) For nonprofit agencies, the tax-exempt status, with appropriate documentation.
(c)
What must the State agency do if a nonprofit agency approved for CSFP is subsequently denied tax-exempt status by the IRS, or does not obtain this status within a certain period of time?
In accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the State agency may approve a nonprofit agency that has applied to the IRS for tax-exempt status, and is moving toward compliance with the requirements for recognition of tax-exempt status. However, if the IRS subsequently denies a participating agency's application for recognition of tax-exempt status, the agency must immediately notify the State agency of the denial. The State agency must terminate the agency's agreement and participation immediately upon notification. If documentation of recognition of tax-exempt status is not received within 180 days of the effective date of the agency's approval to participate in CSFP, the State agency must terminate the agency's participation until such time as recognition of tax-exempt status is obtained. However, the State
agency may grant an extension of 90 days if the agency demonstrates that its inability to obtain tax-exempt status in the 180-day period is due to circumstances beyond its control.
(d)
How much time does the State agency have to make a decision on the local agency's application?
The State agency must inform the local agency of approval or denial of the application within 60 days of its receipt. If the application is denied, the State agency must provide a written explanation for the denial, along with notification of the local agency's right to appeal the decision, in accordance with § 247.35. If the application is approved, the State and local agency must enter into an agreement in accordance with the requirements of § 247.4.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
§ 247.8
Individuals applying to participate in CSFP.
(a)
What information must individuals applying to participate in CSFP provide?
To apply for or to be recertified for CSFP benefits, the applicant or caretaker of the applicant must provide the following information on the application:
(1) Name and address, including some form of identification for each applicant;
(2) Household income;
(3) Household size; and
(4) Other information related to eligibility, such as age
(b)
What else is required on the application form?
The application form must include a nondiscrimination statement that informs the applicant that program standards are applied without discrimination by race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability. After informing the applicant or caretaker of the applicant of his or her rights and responsibilities, in accordance with § 247.12, the local agency must ensure that the applicant or caretaker signs the application form beneath the following pre-printed statement. The statement must be read by, or to, the applicant or caretaker before signing.
“This application is being completed in connection with the receipt of Federal assistance. Program officials may verify information on this form. I am aware that deliberate misrepresentation may subject me to prosecution under applicable State and Federal statutes. I am also aware that I may not receive CSFP benefits at more than one CSFP site at the same time. Furthermore, I am aware that the information provided may be shared with other organizations to detect and prevent dual participation. I have been advised of my rights and obligations under the program. I certify that the information I have provided for my eligibility determination is correct to the best of my knowledge.
I authorize the release of information provided on this application form to other organizations administering assistance programs for use in determining my eligibility for participation in other public assistance programs and for program outreach purposes. (Please indicate decision by placing a checkmark in the appropriate box.)
YES [ ]
NO [ ]”
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38750, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020]
§ 247.9
Eligibility requirements.
(a)
Who is eligible for CSFP?
To be eligible for CSFP, individuals must be at least 60 years of age and meet the income eligibility requirements outlined in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
What are the income eligibility requirements for CSFP applicants?
The State agency must use a household income limit at or below 150 percent of the U.S. Federal Poverty Guidelines published annually by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Participants in households with income at or below this level must be considered eligible for CSFP benefits (assuming they meet other requirements contained in this part). However, participants certified before September 17, 1986 (
i.e.,
under the three elderly pilot projects) must remain subject to the eligibility criteria in effect at the time of their certification.
(1) The State agency may accept as income-eligible for CSFP benefits any applicant that documents that they are certified as fully eligible for the following Federal programs: the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program,
the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), the Low Income Subsidy Program, or the Medicare Savings Programs.
(2) The State agency may accept, as evidence of income within the State agency's CSFP guidelines, documentation of the applicant's participation in State-administered programs not specified in this paragraph that routinely require documentation of income, provided that those programs have income eligibility guidelines at or below the State agency's CSFP threshold.
(3) Applicants who are adjunctively income eligible, as set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, shall not be subject to the income limits established under paragraph (b) of this section.
(c)
When must the State agency revise the CSFP income guidelines to reflect the annual adjustments of the U.S. Federal Poverty Guidelines?
Each year, FNS will notify State agencies, by memorandum, of adjusted income guidelines by household size at 150 percent and 100 percent of the U.S. Federal Poverty Guidelines published annually by HHS. The memorandum will reflect the annual adjustments to the U.S. Federal Poverty Guidelines issued by HHS. The State agency must implement the adjusted guidelines immediately upon receipt of the memorandum.
(d)
How is income defined and considered as it relates to CSFP eligibility?
(1) Income means gross income before deductions for such items as income taxes, employees' social security taxes, insurance premiums, and bonds.
(2) The State agency may exclude from consideration the following sources of income:
(i) Any basic allowance for housing received by military services personnel residing off military installations; and
(ii) The value of inkind housing and other inkind benefits.
(3) The State agency must exclude from consideration all income sources excluded by legislation. FNS will notify State agencies of forms of income excluded by statute through program policy memoranda. The income sources which must be excluded from consideration as income include, but are not limited to:
(i) Reimbursements from the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646, sec. 216, 42 U.S.C. 4636);
(ii) Any payment to volunteers under Title I (VISTA and others) and Title II (RSVP, foster grandparents, and others) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-113, sec. 404(g), 42 U.S.C. 5044(g)) to the extent excluded by that Act;
(iii) Payment to volunteers under section 8(b)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act (SCORE and ACE) (Pub. L. 95-510, sec. 101, 15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(D));
(iv) Income derived from certain submarginal land of the United States which is held in trust for certain Indian Tribes (Pub. L. 94-114, sec. 6, 25 U.S.C. 459e);
(v) Payments received under the Job Training Partnership Act (Pub. L. 97-300, sec. 142(b), 29 U.S.C. 1552(b));
(vi) Income derived from the disposition of funds to the Grand River Band of Ottawa Indians (Pub. L. 94-540, sec. 6);
(vii) Payments received under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (Pub. L. 100-241, sec. 15, 43 U.S.C. 1626(c));
(viii) The value of assistance to children or their families under the National School Lunch Act, as amended (Pub. L. 94-105, sec. 9(d), 42 U.S.C. 1760(e)), the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (Pub. L. 89-642, sec. 11(b), 42 U.S.C. 1780(b)), and the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 95-113, sec. 1301, 7 U.S.C. 2017(b));
(ix) Payments by the Indian Claims Commission to the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation or the Apache Tribe of the Mescalero Reservation (Pub. L. 95-433, sec. 2, 25 U.S.C. 609c-1);
(x) Payments to the Passamaquoddy Tribe and the Penobscot Nation or any of their members received pursuant to the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-420, sec. 6, 9(c), 25 U.S.C. 1725(i), 1728(c));
(xi) Payments under the Low-income Home Energy Assistance Act, as amended (Pub. L. 99-125, sec. 504(c), 42 U.S.C. 8624(f));
(xii) Student financial assistance received from any program funded in
whole or part under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, including the Pell Grant, Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant, State Student Incentive Grants, National Direct Student Loan, PLUS, College Work Study, and Byrd Honor Scholarship programs, which is used for costs described in section 472(1) and (2) of that Act (Pub. L. 99-498, section 479B, 20 U.S.C. 1087uu). The specified costs set forth in section 472(1) and (2) of the Higher Education Act are tuition and fees normally assessed a student carrying the same academic workload as determined by the institution, and including the costs for rental or purchase of any equipment, materials, or supplies required of all students in the same course of study; and an allowance for books, supplies, transportation, and miscellaneous personal expenses for a student attending the institution on at least a half-time basis, as determined by the institution. The specified costs set forth in section 472(1) and (2) of the Act are those costs which are related to the costs of attendance at the educational institution and do not include room and board and dependent care expenses;
(xiii) Payments under the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, as amended by the Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Amendments of 1989 (Pub. L. 100-707, sec. 105(i), 42 U.S.C. 5155(d));
(xiv) Effective July 1, 1991, payments received under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act, as amended by the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act Amendments of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-392, sec. 501, 20 U.S.C. 2466d);
(xv) Payments pursuant to the Agent Orange Compensation Exclusion Act (Pub. L. 101-201, sec. 1);
(xvi) Payments received for Wartime Relocation of Civilians under the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-383, sec. 105(f)(2), 50 App. U.S.C. 1989b-4(f)(2));
(xvii) Value of any child care payments made under section 402(g)(1)(E) of the Social Security Act, as amended by the Family Support Act (Pub. L. 100-485, sec. 301, 42 U.S.C. 602 (g)(1)(E));
(xviii) Value of any “at-risk” block grant child care payments made under section 5081 of Pub. L. 101-508, which amended section 402(i) of the Social Security Act;
(xix) Value of any child care provided or paid for under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act, as amended (Pub. L. 102-586, Sec. 8(b)), 42 U.S.C. 9858q);
(xx) Mandatory salary reduction amount for military service personnel which is used to fund the Veteran's Educational Assistance Act of 1984 (GI Bill), as amended (Pub. L. 99-576, sec. 303(a)(1), 38 U.S.C. 1411 (b));
(xxi) Payments received under the Old Age Assistance Claims Settlement Act, except for per capita shares in excess of $2,000 (Pub. L. 98-500, sec. 8, 25 U.S.C. 2307);
(xxii) Payments received under the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act, unless the income of the family equals or exceeds 80 percent of the median income of the area (Pub. L. 101-625, sec. 522(i)(4), 42 U.S.C. 1437f nt);
(xxiii) Payments received under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, unless the income of the family increases at any time to not less than 50 percent of the median income of the area (Pub. L. 100-242, sec. 126(c)(5)(A), 25 U.S.C. 2307);
(xxiv) Payments received under the Sac and Fox Indian claims agreement (Pub. L. 94-189, sec. 6);
(xxv) Payments received under the Judgment Award Authorization Act, as amended (Pub. L. 97-458, sec. 4, 25 U.S.C. 1407 and Pub. L. 98-64, sec. 2(b), 25 U.S.C. 117b(b));
(xxvi) Payments for the relocation assistance of members of Navajo and Hopi Tribes (Pub. L. 93-531, sec. 22, 22 U.S.C. 640d-21);
(xxvii) Payments to the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewas, Arizona (Pub. L. 97-403, sec. 9);
(xxviii) Payments to the Blackfeet, Grosventre, and Assiniboine Tribes (Montana) and the Papago (Arizona) (Pub. L. 97-408, sec. 8(d));
(xxiv) Payments to the Assiniboine Tribe of the Fort Belknap Indian community and the Assiniboine Tribe of the Fort Peck Indian Reservation (Montana) (Pub. L. 98-124, sec. 5);
(xxx) Payments to the Red Lake Band of Chippewas (Pub. L. 98-123, sec. 3);
(xxxi) Payments received under the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan Distribution of Judgment Funds Act (Pub. L. 99-346, sec. 6(b)(2));
(xxxii) Payments to the Chippewas of Mississippi (Pub. L. 99-377, sec. 4(b));
(xxxiii) Payments received by members of the Armed Forces and their families under the Family Supplemental Subsistence Allowance from the Department of Defense (Pub. L. 109-163, sec. 608); and
(xxxiv) Payments received by property owners under the National Flood Insurance Program (Pub. L. 109-64).
(xxxv) Combat pay received by the household member under Chapter 5 of Title 37 or as otherwise designated by the Secretary.
(4) The State agency may authorize local agencies to consider the household's average income during the previous 12 months and current household income to determine which more accurately reflects the household's status. In instances in which the State makes the decision to authorize local agencies to determine a household's income in this manner, all local agencies must comply with the State's decision and apply this method of income determination in situations in which it is warranted.
(e)
What other options does the State agency have in establishing eligibility requirements for CSFP?
(1) The State agency may require that an individual be at nutritional risk, as determined by a physician or by local agency staff.
(2) The State agency may require that an individual reside within the service area of the local agency at the time of application for CSFP benefits. However, the State agency may not require that an individual reside within the area for any fixed period of time.
[85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 87245, Oct. 31, 2024; 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024, § 247.9 was amended by correcting paragraph (d)(3)(xxiv); however, the amendment could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 247.10
Distribution and use of USDA Foods.
(a)
What are the requirements for distributing USDA Foods to participants?
The local agency must distribute a package of USDA Foods to participants each month, or a two-month supply of USDA Foods to participants every other month, in accordance with the food package guide rates established by FNS.
(b)
What must the local agency do to ensure that USDA Foods are distributed only to CSFP participants?
The local agency must have a process in place, in accordance with State agency requirements, to verify the identity of participants or the participant's proxy before distributing USDA Foods to that person.
(c)
What restrictions apply to State and local agencies in the distribution of USDA Foods?
State and local agencies must not require, or request, that participants make any payments, or provide any materials or services, in connection with the receipt of USDA Foods. State and local agencies must not use the distribution of USDA Foods as a means of furthering the political interests of any person or party.
(d)
What are the restrictions for the use of USDA Foods?
USDA Foods may not be used for outreach, refreshments, or for any purposes other than distribution to, and nutrition education for, CSFP participants.
[89 FR 87246, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.11
Applicants exceed caseload levels.
(a)
What must the local agency do if the number of applicants exceeds the local agency's caseload level?
If all caseload has been filled, the local agency must maintain a waiting list of individuals who apply for the program. In establishing the waiting list, the local agency must include the date of application and information necessary to allow the local agency to contact the applicant when caseload space becomes available. Unless they have been determined ineligible, applicants must be notified of their placement on a waiting list within 10 days of their request for benefits in accordance with § 247.15.
(b)
What are the requirements for serving individuals on the waiting list once caseload slots become available?
The local agency must certify eligible individuals from the waiting list consistent with civil rights requirements at
§ 247.37. For example, a local agency may certify eligible individuals from the waiting list based on the date the application was received on a first-come, first-served basis.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 5879, Feb. 5, 2010]
§ 247.12
Rights and responsibilities.
(a)
What information regarding an individual's rights in CSFP must the local agency provide to the applicant?
The local agency is responsible for informing the applicant, orally or in writing, of the following:
(1) The local agency will provide notification of a decision to deny or terminate CSFP benefits, and of an individual's right to appeal this decision by requesting a fair hearing, in accordance with § 247.33(a);
(2) The local agency will make nutrition education available to all participants and will encourage them to participate; and
(3) The local agency will provide information on other nutrition, health, or assistance programs, and make referrals as appropriate.
(b)
What information regarding an individual's responsibilities in CSFP must the local agency provide to the applicant?
In addition to the written statement required by § 247.8(b), the local agency is responsible for informing the applicant, orally or in writing, of the following:
(1) Improper use or receipt of CSFP benefits as a result of dual participation or other program violations may lead to a claim against the individual to recover the value of the benefits, and may lead to disqualification from CSFP; and
(2) Participants must report changes in household income or composition within 10 days after the change becomes known to the household.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020]
§ 247.13
Provisions for non-English or limited-English speakers.
(a)
What must State and local agencies do to ensure that non-English or limited-English speaking persons are aware of their rights and responsibilities in the program?
If a significant proportion of the population in an area is comprised of non-English or limited-English speaking persons with a common language, the State agency must ensure that local agencies inform such persons of their rights and responsibilities in the program, as listed under § 247.12, in an appropriate language. State and local agencies must ensure that bilingual staff members or interpreters are available to serve these persons.
(b)
What must State and local agencies do to ensure that non-English or limited-English speaking persons are aware of other program information?
If a significant proportion of the population in an area is comprised of non-English or limited-English speaking persons with a common language, the State agency must ensure that local agencies provide other program information, except application forms, to such persons in their appropriate language.
§ 247.14
Other public assistance programs.
(a)
What information on other public assistance programs must the local agency provide to applicants?
The local agency must provide applicants with written information on the following programs, and make referrals, as appropriate:
(1) Supplemental security income benefits provided under Title XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.
);
(2) Medical assistance provided under Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.
), including medical assistance provided to a qualified Medicare beneficiary (42 U.S.C. 1395(p) and 1396d(5));
(3) The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
); and
(4) The Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (7 U.S.C. 3007
et seq.
).
(b)
Is the value of CSFP benefits counted as income or resources for any other public assistance programs?
No. The value of benefits received in CSFP may not be considered as income or resources of participants or their families for any purpose under Federal,
State, or local laws, including laws relating to taxation and public assistance programs.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87246, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.15
Notification of eligibility or ineligibility of applicant.
(a)
What is the timeframe for notifying an applicant of eligibility or ineligibility for CSFP benefits?
Local agencies must notify applicants of their eligibility or ineligibility for CSFP benefits, or their placement on a waiting list, within 10 days from the date of application.
(b)
What must be included in the notification of eligibility or ineligibility?
The notification of eligibility must include information on the time, location, and means of food distribution, and the length of the certification period. Notification of ineligibility must be in writing, and must include the reason the applicant is not eligible, a statement of the individual's right to a fair hearing to appeal the decision, and a statement that informs the applicant that program standards are applied without discrimination by race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability.
§ 247.16
Certification period.
(a)
How long is the certification period
—(1)
Minimum certification period.
The State agency must establish certification periods that are not less than one year but not more than three years in duration. If the State agency chooses to establish a certification period that exceeds one year, the State must first receive approval from FNS by submitting a State Plan amendment. FNS shall approve State requests for a certification period exceeding one year on the condition that, on an annual basis, local agencies do the following:
(i) Verify the address and continued interest of the participant; and
(ii) Have sufficient reason to determine that the participant still meets the income eligibility standards, which may include a determination that the participant has a fixed income.
(2)
Temporary certification.
An eligible CSFP applicant, including individuals on waiting lists, may be provided with a temporary monthly certification to fill any caseload slot resulting from nonparticipation by certified participants.
(3)
Recertification.
Participants must be recertified following the application procedures outlined at § 247.8 in order to continue receiving program benefits beyond the expiration of their certification period.
(b)
On what day of the final month does the certification period end?
The certification period extends to the final day of the month in which eligibility expires.
(c)
Does the certification period end when a participant moves from the local area in which he or she was receiving benefits?
No. The State agency must ensure that local agencies serve a CSFP participant who moves from another area to an area served by CSFP and whose certification period has not expired. The participant must be given the opportunity to continue to receive CSFP benefits for the duration of the certification period. If the local agency has a waiting list, the participant must be placed on its waiting list ahead of all other waiting applicants. The local agency that determined the participant's eligibility must provide verification of the expiration date of the certification period to the participant upon request.
(d)
What must the local agency do to ensure that participants are aware of the expiration of the certification period?
The local agency must notify program participants in writing at least 15 days before the expiration date that eligibility for the program is about to expire. The local agency must include a statement in the written notification that informs the applicant that program standards are applied without discrimination by race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 5879, Feb. 5, 2010; 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68722, Oct. 30, 2020]
§ 247.17
Notification of discontinuance of participant.
(a)
What must a local agency do if it has evidence that a participant is no longer eligible for CSFP benefits during the certification period?
If a local agency has evidence that a participant is no
longer eligible for CSFP benefits during the certification period, it must provide the participant with a written notification of discontinuance at least 15 days before the effective date of discontinuance.
(b)
What must a local agency do if it has to discontinue a participant from participation in the program prior to the end of the certification period due to the lack of resources necessary to continue providing benefits to the participant?
If a local agency does not have sufficient resources, such as a sufficient number of caseload slots, to continue providing benefits to the participant(s) for the entire certification period, it must provide the participant(s) with a written notification of discontinuance at least 15 days before the effective date of discontinuance.
(c)
What must be included in the notification of discontinuance?
The notification of discontinuance must include the effective date of discontinuance, the reason for the participant's discontinuance, a statement of the individual's right to appeal the discontinuance through the fair hearing process, in accordance with § 247.33(a), and a statement that informs the applicant that program standards are applied without discrimination by race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability.
§ 247.18
Nutrition education.
(a)
What are the State agency's responsibilities in ensuring that nutrition education is provided?
The State agency must establish an overall nutrition education plan and must ensure that local agencies provide nutrition education to participants in accordance with the plan. The State agency may allow local agencies to share personnel and educational resources with other programs in order to provide the best nutrition education possible to participants. The State agency must establish an evaluation procedure to ensure that the nutrition education provided is effective. The evaluation procedure must include participant input and must be directed by a nutritionist or other qualified professional. The evaluation may be conducted by the State or local agency, or by another agency under agreement with the State or local agency.
(b)
What type of nutrition education must the local agency provide?
The local agency must provide nutrition education that can be easily understood by participants and is related to their nutritional needs and household situations. The local agency must provide nutrition education that includes the following information, which should account for specific ethnic and cultural characteristics whenever possible:
(1) The nutritional value of USDA Foods, and their relationship to the overall dietary needs of the population groups served;
(2) Nutritious ways to use USDA Foods;
(3) Special nutritional needs of participants and how these needs may be met;
(4) The importance of health care, and the role nutrition plays in maintaining good health; and
(5) The importance of the use of the foods by the participant to whom they are distributed, and not by another person.
(c)
To whom must local agencies provide nutrition education?
The local agency must make nutrition education available to all participants.
(d)
May USDA Foods be used in cooking demonstrations?
Yes. The State or local agency, or another agency with which it has signed an agreement, may use USDA Foods to conduct cooking demonstrations as part of the nutrition education provided to program participants, but not for other purposes.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68722, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87246, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.19
Dual participation.
(a)
What must State and local agencies do to prevent and detect dual participation?
The State agency must work with local agencies to prevent and detect dual participation. The State agency must work with local agencies to prevent and detect dual participation. In accordance with § 247.8(a)(1), the local agency must check the identification of all applicants when they are certified or recertified. In accordance with § 247.8(b), the local agency must ensure that the applicant or caretaker of the applicant signs an application form which includes a statement advising
the applicant that he or she may not receive CSFP benefits at more than one CSFP site at the same time.
(b)
What must the local agency do if a CSFP participant is found to be committing dual participation?
A participant found to be committing dual participation must be discontinued from participation at more than one CSFP site. In accordance with § 247.20(b), if the dual participation resulted from the participant or caretaker of the participant making false or misleading statements, or intentionally withholding information, the local agency must disqualify the participant from CSFP, unless the local agency determines that disqualification would result in a serious health risk. The local agency must also initiate a claim against the participant to recover the value of CSFP benefits improperly received, in accordance with § 247.30(c). Whenever an individual's participation in CSFP is discontinued, the local agency must notify the individual of the discontinuance, in accordance with § 247.17. The individual may appeal the discontinuance through the fair hearing process, in accordance with § 247.33(a).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68722, Oct. 30, 2020]
§ 247.20
Program violations.
(a)
What are program violations in CSFP?
Program violations are actions taken by CSFP applicants or participants, or caretakers of applicants or participants, to obtain or use CSFP benefits improperly. Program violations include the following actions:
(1) Intentionally making false or misleading statements, orally or in writing;
(2) Intentionally withholding information pertaining to eligibility in CSFP;
(3) Selling USDA Foods obtained in the program, or exchanging them for non-food items;
(4) Physical abuse, or threat of physical abuse, of program staff; or
(5) Committing dual participation.
(b)
What are the penalties for committing program violations?
If applicants or participants, or caretakers of applicants or participants, commit program violations, the State agency may require local agencies to disqualify the applicants or participants for a period of up to one year. However, if the local agency determines that disqualification would result in a serious health risk, the disqualification may be waived. For program violations that involve fraud, the State agency must require local agencies to disqualify the participant from CSFP for a period of up to one year, unless the local agency determines that disqualification would result in a serious health risk. The State agency must require local agencies to permanently disqualify a participant who commits three program violations that involve fraud. For purposes of this program, fraud includes:
(1) Intentionally making false or misleading statements to obtain USDA Foods;
(2) Intentionally withholding information to obtain USDA Foods; or
(3) Selling USDA Foods, or exchanging them for non-food items.
(c)
What must the local agency do to notify the individual of disqualification from CSFP?
The local agency must provide the individual with written notification of disqualification from CSFP at least 15 days before the effective date of disqualification. The notification must include the effective date and period of disqualification, the reason for the disqualification, and a statement that the individual may appeal the disqualification through the fair hearing process, in accordance with § 247.33(a).
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 89 FR 87246, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.21
Caseload assignment.
(a)
How does FNS assign caseload to State agencies?
Each year, FNS assigns a caseload to each State agency to allow persons meeting the eligibility criteria listed under § 247.9 to participate in the program, up to the caseload limit. To the extent that resources are available, FNS assigns caseload to State agencies in the following order:
(1)
Base caseload.
The State agency may not receive base caseload in excess of its total caseload assigned for the
previous caseload cycle. Base caseload is determined in the following manner:
(i) Each State agency entering its second year of program participation receives base caseload equal to the amount assigned to it in its first year of participation; and
(ii) A State agency that has participated in two or more caseload cycles receives base caseload equal to the highest of:
(A) Average monthly participation for the previous fiscal year; or
(B) Average monthly participation for the last quarter of the previous fiscal year; or
(C) Participation during September of the previous fiscal year, but only if:
(
1
) The full-year appropriation for the preceding fiscal year was enacted on or after February 15; and
(
2
) The State agency received additional caseload equal to or greater than 10 percent of its base caseload in the previous caseload cycle; and
(
3
) October participation in the current fiscal year was equal to or greater than 95 percent of September participation in the previous fiscal year.
(2)
Additional caseload.
Each participating State agency may request additional caseload to increase program participation. Eligibility for and assignment of additional caseload are determined in the following manner:
(i) A State agency entering its second year of program participation qualifies to receive additional caseload if the State achieved a participation level which was equal to or greater than 95 percent of assigned caseload for the previous caseload cycle, based on the highest of:
(A) Average monthly participation for the previous fiscal year; or
(B) Average monthly participation for the last quarter of the previous fiscal year; or
(C) Participation during September of the previous fiscal year, but only if:
(
1
) The full-year appropriation for the preceding fiscal year was enacted on or after February 15; and
(
2
) October participation in the current fiscal year was equal to or greater than 95 percent of September participation in the previous fiscal year.
(ii) A State agency that has participated in two or more caseload cycles qualifies to receive additional caseload if the State achieved a participation level which was equal to or greater than 95 percent of assigned caseload for the previous caseload cycle, based on the highest of:
(A) Average monthly participation for the previous fiscal year; or
(B) Average monthly participation for the last quarter of the previous fiscal year; or
(C) Participation during September of the previous fiscal year, but only if:
(
1
) The full-year appropriation for the preceding fiscal year was enacted on or after February 15; and
(
2
) The State agency received additional caseload equal to or greater than 10 percent of its base caseload in the previous caseload cycle; and
(
3
) October participation in the current fiscal year was equal to or greater than 95 percent of September participation in the previous fiscal year.
(iii) Of each eligible State agency's request for additional caseload, FNS assigns an amount that it determines the State needs and can efficiently utilize. In making this determination, FNS considers the factors listed below, in descending order of importance. If all reasonable requests for additional caseload cannot be met, FNS assigns it to those States that are most likely to utilize it. The factors are:
(A) The percentage of caseload utilized by the State in the previous fiscal year;
(B) Program participation trends in the State in previous fiscal years; and
(C) Other information provided by the State agency in support of the request.
(3)
New caseload.
Each State agency requesting to begin participation in the program, and with an approved State Plan, may receive caseload to serve participants, as requested in the State Plan. Of the State agency's caseload request, FNS assigns caseload in an amount that it determines the State needs and can efficiently utilize. This determination is made based on information contained in the State Plan and on other relevant information. However, if all caseload requests cannot be met, FNS will assign caseload to those States that are most likely to utilize it.
(b)
When does FNS assign caseload to State agencies?
FNS must assign caseload to State agencies by December 31 of each year, or within 30 days after enactment of appropriations legislation covering the full fiscal year, whichever comes later. Caseload assignments for the previous caseload cycle will remain in effect, subject to the availability of sufficient funding, until caseload assignments are made for the current caseload cycle.
(c)
How do State agencies request additional caseload for the next caseload cycle?
In accordance with § 247.6(d), a State agency that would like additional caseload for the next caseload cycle (beginning the following January 1) must submit a request for additional caseload by November 5, as an amendment to the State Plan. The State agency must also describe plans for serving participants at new sites in this submission.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 5879, Feb. 5, 2010; 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.22
Allocation and disbursement of administrative funds to State agencies.
(a)
What must State agencies do to be eligible to receive administrative funds?
In order to receive administrative funds, the State agency must have signed an agreement with FNS to operate the program, in accordance with § 247.4(a)(1), and must have an approved State Plan.
(b)
How does FNS allocate administrative funds to State agencies?
(1) As required by law, each fiscal year FNS allocates to each State agency an administrative grant per assigned caseload slot, adjusted each year for inflation.
(2) For fiscal year 2003, the amount of the grant per assigned caseload slot was equal to the per-caseload slot amount provided in fiscal year 2001, adjusted by the percentage change between:
(i) The value of the State and local government price index, as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce, for the 12-month period ending June 30, 2001; and
(ii) The value of that index for the 12-month period ending June 30, 2002.
(3) For subsequent fiscal years, the amount of the grant per assigned caseload slot is equal to the amount of the grant per assigned caseload slot for the preceding fiscal year, adjusted by the percentage change between:
(i) The value of the State and local government price index, as published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce, for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the second preceding fiscal year; and
(ii) The value of that index for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the preceding fiscal year.
(c)
How do State agencies access administrative funds?
FNS provides administrative funds to State agencies on a quarterly basis. Such funds are provided by means of a Letter of Credit, unless other funding arrangements have been made with FNS. The State agency obtains the funds by electronically accessing its Letter of Credit account.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
§ 247.23
State provision of administrative funds to local agencies.
(a)
How much of the administrative funds must State agencies provide to local agencies for their use?
The State agency must provide to local agencies for their use all administrative funds it receives, except that the State agency may retain for its own use the amount determined by the following formula:
(1) 15 percent of the first $50,000 received;
(2) 10 percent of the next $100,000 received;
(3) 5 percent of the next $250,000 received; and
(4) A maximum of $30,000, if the administrative grant exceeds $400,000.
(b)
May a State agency request to retain more than the amount determined by the above formula in the event of special needs?
Yes, the State agency may request approval from FNS to retain a larger amount than is allowed under the formula prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. However, in making its request, the State agency must provide justification of the need for the larger amount at the State level, and must
ensure that local agencies will not suffer undue hardship as a result of a reduction in administrative funds.
(c)
How must the State agency distribute funds among local agencies?
The State agency must distribute funds among local agencies on the basis of their respective needs, and in a manner that ensures the funds will be used to achieve program objectives.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
§ 247.24
Recovery and redistribution of caseload and administrative funds.
(a)
May FNS recover and redistribute caseload and administrative funds assigned to a State agency?
Yes. FNS may recover and redistribute caseload and administrative funds assigned to a State agency during the fiscal year. FNS will redistribute these resources to other State agencies in accordance with the provisions of §§ 247.21(a) and 247.22(b). In reassigning caseload, FNS will use the most up-to-date data on participation and the extent to which caseload is being utilized, as well as other information provided by State agencies. In accordance with § 247.21(a)(2), in instances in which FNS recovers caseload slots, the State agency must use 95 percent of its original caseload allocation to be eligible for additional caseload. However, the State agency must not exceed its reduced caseload allocation on an average monthly basis.
(b)
Is there a limit on the amount of caseload slots or administrative funds that FNS may recover?
Yes. FNS will not unilaterally recover caseload that would result in the recovery of more than 50 percent of the State's administrative funds. However, in instances in which the State agency requests that FNS recover any portion of its assigned caseload, the 50-percent limitation will not apply.
§ 247.25
Allowable uses of administrative funds and other funds.
(a)
What are allowable uses of administrative funds provided to State and local agencies?
Administrative funds may be used for costs that are necessary to ensure the efficient and effective administration of the program, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, which set out the principles for determining whether specific costs are allowable. Some examples of allowable costs in CSFP include:
(1) Storing, transporting, and distributing foods;
(2) Determining the eligibility of program applicants;
(3) Program outreach;
(4) Nutrition education;
(5) Audits and fair hearings;
(6) Monitoring and review of program operations; and
(7) Transportation of participants to and from the local agency, if necessary.
(b)
What are unallowable uses of administrative funds?
In addition to those costs determined to be unallowable by the principles contained in the OMB circulars referenced in paragraph (a) of this section, specific examples of unallowable uses of administrative funds in CSFP include:
(1) The cost of alteration of facilities not required specifically for the program; and
(2) Actual losses which could have been covered by permissible insurance (through an approved self-insurance program or by other means).
(c)
What costs are allowable only with prior approval of FNS?
Capital expenditures, which include the acquisition of facilities or equipment, or enhancements to such capital assets, with a cost per unit of at least $5,000, are allowable only with prior approval of FNS. Examples of equipment include automated information systems, automated data processing equipment, and other computer hardware and software.
(d)
What procedures must State and local agencies use in procuring property, equipment, or services with program funds, and disposing of such property or equipment?
The procedures that State and local agencies must follow in procuring property, equipment, or services with program funds, or disposing of such property or equipment, are contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415, which set out the principles for determining whether specific costs are allowable. State, local, and Indian tribal governments must
comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415, while nonprofit subgrantees must comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. State and local agencies may use procurement procedures established by State and local regulations as long as these procedures do not conflict with Federal regulations. Federal regulations do not relieve State or local agencies from responsibilities established in contracts relating to procurement of property, equipment, or services. The State agency is the responsible authority regarding the settlement of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements for the program.
(e)
What is program income and how must State and local agencies use it?
Program income is income directly generated from program activities. It includes, for example, income from the sale of packing containers or pallets, and the salvage of USDA Foods. Program income does not include interest earned from administrative funds. State and local agencies must use program income for allowable program costs, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.
(f)
How must State and local agencies use funds recovered as a result of claims actions?
The State agency must use funds recovered as a result of claims actions against subdistributing or local agencies in accordance with the provisions of § 250.17(c) of this chapter. The State agency must use funds recovered as a result of claims actions against participants for allowable program costs. The State agency may authorize local agencies to use such funds for allowable program costs incurred at the local level.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14173, Apr. 3, 2018; 85 FR 68722, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.26
Return of administrative funds.
(a)
Must State agencies return administrative funds that they do not use at the end of the fiscal year?
Yes. If, by the end of the fiscal year, a State agency has not obligated all of its allocated administrative funds, the unobligated funds must be returned to FNS.
(b)
What happens to administrative funds that are returned by State agencies at the end of the fiscal year?
If, in the following fiscal year, OMB reapportions the returned administrative funds, the funds are used to support the program. Such funds are not returned to State agencies in the form of administrative funds in addition to the legislatively mandated grant per assigned caseload slot.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
§ 247.27
Financial management.
(a)
What are the Federal requirements for State and local agencies with regard to financial management?
State and local public agencies, as well as nonprofit organizations, must maintain a financial management system that complies with the Federal regulations contained in 2 CFR part 200, subparts D and E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. The State agency's financial management system must provide accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial status of the program, including an accounting of all program funds received and expended each fiscal year. The State agency must ensure that local agencies develop and implement a financial management system that allows them to meet Federal requirements.
(b)
What are some of the major components of the State agency's financial management system?
In addition to other requirements, the State agency's financial management system must provide for:
(1) Prompt and accurate payment of allowable costs;
(2) Timely disbursement of funds to local agencies;
(3) Timely and appropriate resolution of claims and audit findings; and
(4) Maintenance of records identifying the receipt and use of administrative funds, funds recovered as a result of claims actions, program income (as defined under § 247.25(e)), and property
and other assets procured with program funds.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 83 FR 14174, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 247.28
Storage and inventory of USDA Foods.
(a)
What are the requirements for storage of USDA Foods?
State and local agencies must provide for storage of USDA Foods that protects them from theft, spoilage, damage or destruction, or other loss. State and local agencies may contract with commercial facilities to store and distribute USDA Foods. The required standards for warehousing and distribution systems, and for contracts with storage facilities, are included in §§ 250.12 and 250.14 of this chapter.
(b)
What are the requirements for the inventory of USDA Foods?
A physical inventory of all USDA Foods must be conducted annually at each storage and distribution site where these USDA Foods are stored. Results of the physical inventory must be reconciled with inventory records and maintained on file by the State or local agency.
[89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.29
Reports and recordkeeping.
(a)
What recordkeeping requirements must State and local agencies meet?
State and local agencies must maintain accurate and complete records relating to the receipt, disposal, and inventory of USDA Foods, the receipt and disbursement of administrative funds and other funds, eligibility determinations, fair hearings, and other program activities. State and local agencies must also maintain records pertaining to liability for any improper distribution of, use of, loss of, or damage to USDA Foods, and the results obtained from the pursuit of claims arising in favor of the State or local agency. All records must be retained for a period of three years from the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain, or, if they are related to unresolved claims actions, audits, or investigations, until those activities have been resolved. All records must be available during normal business hours for use in management reviews, audits, investigations, or reports of the General Accounting Office.
(b)
What reports must State and local agencies submit to FNS?
State agencies must submit the following reports to FNS:
(1)
SF-425, Federal Financial Report.
The State agency must submit the SF-425, Federal Financial Report, to report the financial status of the program at the close of the fiscal year. This report must be submitted within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. Obligations must be reported for the fiscal year in which they occur. Revised reports may be submitted at a later date, but FNS will not be responsible for reimbursing unpaid obligations later than one year after the end of the fiscal year in which they were incurred.
(2)
FNS-153, Monthly Report of the Commodity Supplemental Food Program and Quarterly Administrative Financial Status Report.
The State agency must submit the FNS-153 on a monthly basis. FNS may permit the data contained in the report to be submitted less frequently, or in another format. The report must be submitted within 30 days after the end of the reporting period. On the FNS-153, the State agency reports:
(i) The number of program participants;
(ii) The receipt and distribution of USDA Foods, and beginning and ending inventories, as well as other USDA Foods data; and
(iii) On a quarterly basis, the cumulative amount of administrative funds expended and obligated, and the amount remaining unobligated.
(3)
FNS-191, Racial/Ethnic Group Participation.
Local agencies must submit a report of racial/ethnic participation each year, using the FNS-191.
(c)
Is there any other information that State and local agencies must provide to FNS?
FNS may require State and local agencies to provide data collected in the program to aid in the evaluation of the effect of program benefits on the low-income populations served. Any
such requests for data will not include identification of particular individuals.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0584-0025, 0584-0293)
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 24184, May 2, 2007; 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68722, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.30
Claims.
(a)
What happens if a State or local agency misuses program funds?
If FNS determines that a State or local agency has misused program funds through negligence, fraud, theft, embezzlement, or other causes, FNS must initiate and pursue a claim against the State agency to repay the amount of the misused funds. The State agency will be given the opportunity to contest the claim. The State agency is responsible for initiating and pursuing claims against subdistributing and local agencies if they misuse program funds.
(b)
What happens if a State or local agency misuses USDA Foods?
If a State or local agency misuses USDA Foods, FNS must initiate a claim against the State agency to recover the value of the misused USDA Foods. The procedures for pursuing claims resulting from misuse of USDA Foods are detailed in § 250.16(a) of this chapter. Misused USDA Foods include USDA Foods improperly distributed or lost, spoiled, stolen, or damaged as a result of improper storage, care, or handling. The State agency is responsible for initiating and pursuing claims against subdistributing agencies, local agencies, or other agencies or organizations if they misuse USDA Foods. The State agency must use funds recovered as a result of claims for USDA Foods losses in accordance with § 250.17(c) of this chapter.
(c)
What happens if a participant improperly receives or uses CSFP benefits through fraud?
The State agency must ensure that a local agency initiates a claim against a participant to recover the value of USDA Foods improperly received or used if the local agency determines that the participant or caretaker of the participant fraudulently received or used the USDA Foods. For purposes of this program, fraud includes intentionally making false or misleading statements, or intentionally withholding information, to obtain USDA Foods, or the selling or exchange of USDA Foods for non-food items. The local agency must advise the participant of the opportunity to appeal the claim through the fair hearing process, in accordance with § 247.33(a). The local agency must also disqualify the participant from CSFP for a period of up to one year, unless the local agency determines that disqualification would result in a serious health risk, in accordance with the requirements of § 247.20(b).
(d)
What procedures must be used in pursuing claims against participants?
The State agency must establish standards, based on a cost-benefit review, for determining when the pursuit of a claim is cost-effective, and must ensure that local agencies use these standards in determining if a claim is to be pursued. In pursuing a claim against a participant, the local agency must:
(1) Issue a letter demanding repayment for the value of the USDA Foods improperly received or used;
(2) If repayment is not made in a timely manner, take additional collection actions that are cost-effective, in accordance with the standards established by the State agency; and
(3) Maintain all records regarding claims actions taken against participants, in accordance with § 247.29.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68722, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.31
Audits and investigations.
(a)
What is the purpose of an audit?
The purpose of an audit is to ensure that:
(1) Financial operations are properly conducted;
(2) Financial reports are fairly presented;
(3) Proper inventory controls are maintained; and
(4) Applicable laws, regulations, and administrative requirements are followed.
(b)
When may the Department conduct an audit or investigation of the program?
The Department may conduct an audit of the program at the State or local
agency level at its discretion, or may investigate an allegation that the State or local agency has not complied with Federal requirements. An investigation may include a review of any State or local agency policies or practices related to the specific area of concern.
(c)
What are the responsibilities of the State agency in responding to an audit by the Department?
In responding to an audit by the Department, the State agency must:
(1) Provide access to any records or documents compiled by the State or local agencies, or contractors; and
(2) Submit a response or statement to FNS describing the actions planned or taken in response to audit findings or recommendations. The corrective action plan must include time frames for implementation and completion of actions. FNS will determine if actions or planned actions adequately respond to the program deficiencies identified in the audit. If additional actions are needed, FNS will schedule a follow-up review and allow sufficient time for further corrective actions. The State agency may also take exception to particular audit findings or recommendations.
(d)
When is a State or local agency audit required?
State and local agency audits must be conducted in accordance with part 3052 of this title, which contains the Department's regulations pertaining to audits of States, local governments, and nonprofit organizations. The value of USDA Foods distributed by the agency or organization must be considered part of the Federal award.
(e)
What are the requirements for State or local agency audits?
State and local agency audits must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of part 3052 of this title, which contains the Department's regulations pertaining to audits of States, local governments, and nonprofit organizations. The State agency must ensure that local agencies meet the audit requirements. The State agency must ensure that all State or local agency audit reports are available for FNS review.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.32
Termination of agency participation.
(a)
When may a State agency's participation in CSFP be terminated?
While paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section, as applicable, describe the circumstances and basic procedures for terminating State agency programs, specific actions and procedures relating to program termination are more fully described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.
(1)
Termination by FNS.
FNS may terminate a State agency's participation in CSFP, in whole or in part, if the State agency does not comply with the requirements of this part. FNS must provide written notification to the State agency of termination, including the reasons for the action, and the effective date.
(2)
Termination by State agency.
The State agency may terminate the program, in whole or in part, upon written notification to FNS, stating the reasons and effective date of the action. In accordance with § 247.4(b)(6), which relates to the termination of agreements, either party must provide, at minimum, 30 days' written notice.
(3)
Termination by mutual agreement.
The State agency's program may also be terminated, in whole or in part, if both parties agree the action would be in the best interest of the program. The two parties must agree upon the conditions of the termination, including the effective date.
(b)
When may a local agency's participation in CSFP be terminated?
While paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section, as applicable, describe the circumstances and basic procedures in termination of local agency programs, specific actions and procedures relating to program termination are more fully described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.
(1)
Termination by State agency.
The State agency may terminate a local
agency's participation in CSFP, or may be required to terminate a local agency's participation, in whole or in part, if the local agency does not comply with the requirements of this part. The State agency must notify the local agency in writing of the termination, the reasons for the action, and the effective date, and must provide the local agency with an opportunity to appeal, in accordance with § 247.35. (The local agency may appeal the termination in accordance with § 247.35.)
(2)
Termination by local agency.
The local agency may terminate the program, in whole or in part, upon written notification to the State agency, stating the reasons and effective date of the action. In accordance with § 247.4(b)(6), which relates to the termination of agreements, either party must provide, at minimum, 30 days' written notice.
(3)
Termination by mutual agreement.
The local agency's program may also be terminated, in whole or in part, if both the State and local agency agree that the action would be in the best interest of the program. The two parties must agree upon the conditions of the termination, including the effective date.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 83 FR 14174, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 247.33
Fair hearings.
(a)
What is a fair hearing?
A fair hearing is a process that allows a CSFP applicant or participant to appeal an adverse action, which may include the denial or discontinuance of program benefits, disqualification from the program, or a claim to repay the value of USDA Foods received as a result of fraud. State and local agencies must ensure that CSFP applicants and participants understand their right to appeal an adverse action through the fair hearing process, which includes providing written notification of the individual's right to a fair hearing along with notification of the adverse action. Such notification is not required at the expiration of a certification period.
(b)
What are the basic requirements the State agency must follow in establishing procedures to be used in fair hearings?
The State agency must establish simple, clear, uniform rules of procedure to be used in fair hearings, including, at a minimum, the procedures outlined in this section. The State agency may use alternate procedures if approved by FNS. The rules of procedure must be available for public inspection and copying.
(c)
How may an individual request a fair hearing?
An individual or an individual's caretaker may request a fair hearing by making a clear expression, verbal or written, to a State or local agency official that an appeal of the adverse action is desired.
(d)
How much time does an individual have to request a fair hearing?
The State or local agency must allow an individual at least 60 days from the date the agency mails or gives the individual the notification of adverse action to request a fair hearing.
(e)
When may a State or local agency deny a request for a fair hearing?
The State or local agency may deny a request for a fair hearing when:
(1) The request is not received within the time limit established in paragraph (d) of this section;
(2) The request is withdrawn in writing by the individual requesting the hearing or by an authorized representative of the individual; or
(3) The individual fails to appear, without good cause, for the scheduled hearing.
(f)
Does the request for a fair hearing have any effect on the receipt of CSFP benefits?
Participants who appeal the discontinuance of program benefits within the 15-day advance notification period required under §§ 247.17 and 247.20 must be permitted to continue to receive benefits until a decision on the appeal is made by the hearing official, or until the end of the participant's certification period, whichever occurs first. However, if the hearing decision finds that a participant received program benefits fraudulently, the local agency must include the value of benefits received during the time that the hearing was pending, as well as for any previous period, in its initiation and pursuit of a claim against the participant.
(g)
