(2) The contractor will notify all holders to whom they disseminated the material. The contractor will not mark the notice as classified unless it contains additional information warranting classification.
(3) In the case of material which was inadvertently released as UNCLASSIFIED, the contractor will mark and protect the notice as classified at the CONFIDENTIAL level, unless it contains additional information warranting a higher classification. The contractor will cite the applicable Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, or other classification guide on the “Derived From” line and mark the notice with an appropriate declassification instruction.
(k)
Dissemination of improperly marked information.
If the contractor inadvertently distributes classified material without the proper classification assigned to it, or without any markings to identify the material as classified, as appropriate, the contractor will:
(1) Determine whether all holders of the material are cleared and authorized access to it.
(2) If recipients are authorized persons, and the contractor disseminated the information through authorized channels, promptly provide written notice to all holders of the proper classification to be assigned. The contractor will also include the classification source as well as declassification instructions in the notification.
(3) Report compromises to the CSA in accordance with the provisions of § 117.8(d), if:
(i) Any of the recipients of the material are not authorized persons.
(ii) Any material cannot be accounted for.
(iii) The material was transmitted through unauthorized channels.
(l)
Marking foreign government classified material.
Foreign government classified information will retain its original classification markings or will be assigned a U.S. classification that provides a degree of protection at least equivalent to that required by the foreign government entity that furnished the information in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.54. The equivalent U.S. classification and the country of origin will be marked on the front and back in English.
(m)
Foreign government restricted information and “in confidence” information.
(1) Some foreign governments have a fourth level of classification that does not correspond to an equivalent U.S. classification that is identified as RESTRICTED information. In many cases, security agreements require RESTRICTED information to be protected as U.S. CONFIDENTIAL information.
(2) Some foreign governments may have a category of unclassified information that is protected by law. This latter category is normally provided to other governments with the expectation that the information will be treated “In Confidence.” The foreign government or international organization must state that the information is provided in confidence and that it must be protected from release.
(i) 10 U.S.C. 130c protects information provided “In Confidence” by foreign
governments which is not classified but meets special requirements.
(ii) This provision also applies to RESTRICTED information which is not required by an agreement to be protected as classified information.
(iii) The contractor will not disclose information protected by this statutory provision to anyone except personnel who require access to the information in connection with the contract.
(3) It is the responsibility of the foreign entity that awards the contract to incorporate requirements for the protection and marking of RESTRICTED or “In Confidence” information in the contract. The contractor will advise the CSA if requirements were not provided by the foreign entity.
(n)
Marking U.S. documents containing FGI.
(1) U.S. documents containing FGI must be marked on the front, “THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS (indicate country of origin) INFORMATION.” In addition, the portions must be marked to identify both the country and classification level, (
e.g.,
(UK-C), (GE-C)). The “Derived From” line will identify U.S. as well as foreign classification sources.
(2) If the identity of the foreign government must be concealed, the front of the document will be marked “THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION;” paragraphs will be marked FGI, together with the classification level (
e.g.,
(FGI-C)); and the “Derived From” line will indicate FGI in addition to any U.S. source. The identity of the foreign government will be maintained with the record copy of the document.
(3) A U.S. document that contains FGI will not be downgraded below the highest level of FGI contained in the document or be declassified without the written approval of the foreign government that originated the information. Recommendations concerning downgrading or declassification will be submitted to the GCA or foreign government contracting authority, as applicable.
(o)
Marking documents prepared for foreign governments.
Documents prepared for foreign governments that contain U.S. classified information and FGI will be marked as prescribed by the foreign government. In addition, they will be marked on the front, “THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS UNITED STATES CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.” Portions will be marked to identify the U.S. classified information.
(p)
Marking requirements for transfers of defense articles to Australia (AUS) or the United Kingdom (UK).
Marking requirements for transfers of defense articles to AUS or the UK without a license or other written authorization are pursuant to § 117.19(i).
(q)
Commingling of RD and FRD.
Commingling of RD, FRD, and TFNI with national security information (NSI) in the same document should be avoided to the greatest degree possible. When mixing this information cannot be avoided, the marking requirements in 10 CFR part 1045, section 140(f) and declassification requirements of 10 CFR part 1045, section 155 apply.
§ 117.15
Safeguarding classified information.
(a)
General safeguarding.
Contractors will be responsible for safeguarding classified information in their custody or under their control, with approval for such storage of classified information by the applicable CSA. Individuals are responsible for safeguarding classified information entrusted to them. Contractors will provide the extent of protection to classified information sufficient to reasonably protect it from loss or compromise.
(1)
Oral discussions.
Contractors will ensure that all cleared personnel are aware of the prohibition against discussing classified information over unsecured telephones, in public conveyances or places, or in any other manner that permits interception by unauthorized persons.
(2)
End of day security checks.
(i) Contractors that store classified material will establish a system of security checks at the close of each working day to verify that all classified material and security repositories have been appropriately secured.
(ii) Contractors that operate multiple work shifts will perform the security checks at the end of the last working shift in which classified material was removed from storage for use. The
checks are not required during continuous 24-hour operations.
(3)
Perimeter controls.
(i) Contractors authorized to store classified material will establish and maintain a system to deter and detect unauthorized introduction or removal of classified material from their facility without proper authority.
(ii) If the unauthorized introduction or removal of classified material can be reasonably prevented through technical means (
e.g.,
an intrusion detection system), which are encouraged, no further controls are necessary. The contractor will provide appropriate authorization to personnel who have a legitimate need to remove or transport classified material for passing through designated entry or exit points.
(iii) The contractor will:
(A) Provide appropriate authorization to personnel who have a legitimate need to remove or transport classified material for passing through designated entry or exit points.
(B) Conspicuously post notices at all pertinent entries and exits that persons who enter or depart the facility are subject to an inspection of their personal, except under circumstances where the possibility of access to classified material is remote.
(C) Limit inspections to buildings or areas where classified work is being performed.
(D) Establish the extent, frequency, and location of inspections in a manner consistent with contractual obligations and operational efficiency. The contractor may use any appropriate random sampling technique.
(E) Seek legal advice during the formulation of implementing procedures.
(F) Submit significant problems pertaining to perimeter controls and inspections to the CSA.
(iv) Contractors will develop procedures for safeguarding classified material in emergency situations.
(A) The procedures should be as simple and practical as possible and adaptable to any type of emergency that may reasonably arise.
(B) Contractors will promptly report to the CSA any emergency situation that renders them incapable of safeguarding classified material.
(b)
Standards for Security Equipment.
Contractors will follow guidelines established in 32 CFR part 2001, when procuring storage and destruction equipment. Authorized repairs for GSA-approved security containers and vaults must be in accordance with Federal Standard 809.
(c)
Storage.
Contractors will store classified information and material in General Services Administration (GSA)-approved security containers, vaults built to Federal Standard 832, or an open storage area constructed in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.53. In the instance that an open storage area has a false ceiling or raised floor, contractors shall develop and implement procedures to ensure their structural integrity. Nothing in 32 CFR part 2001, should be construed to contradict or inhibit compliance with local laws or building codes, but the contractor will notify the applicable CSA if there are any conflicting issues that would inhibit compliance. Contractors will store classified material in accordance with the specific sections of 32 CFR 2001.43:
(1) CONFIDENTIAL. See 32 CFR 2001.43(b)(3).
(2) SECRET. See 32 CFR 2001.43(b)(2).
(3) TOP SECRET Documents. See 32 CFR 2001.43(b)(1).
(d)
Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS).
This paragraph specifies the minimum standards for an approved IDS when used for supplemental protection of TOP SECRET and SECRET material. The CSA will provide additional guidance for contingency protection procedures in the event of IDS malfunction, including contractors located in USG owned contractor operated facilities.
(1)
CSA approval.
(i) CSA approval is required before installing an IDS. The CSA will base approval of a new IDS on the criteria of Intelligence Community Directive 705 (available at:
https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICD/ICD_705_SCIFs.pdf
) and any applicable intelligence community standard, Underwriters Laboratories (UL) Standard 2050 (Government agencies with a role as a CSA or CSO may obtain this reference without charge; available at:
www.ul.com/contact
), or the CSA may base approval on written CSA-specific
standards for the information to be protected.
(ii) Installation will be performed by an alarm services company certified by a NRTL that meets the requirements in 29 CFR 1910.7 to perform testing and certification. The NRTL-approved alarm service company is responsible for completing the appropriate alarm system description form approved by the NRTL.
(iii) All the intrusion detection equipment (IDE) used in the IDS installation will be tested and approved (or listed) by a NRTL, ensuring its proper operation and resistance from tampering. Any IDE that has not been tested and approved by a NRTL will require CSA approval.
(2)
Central monitoring station.
(i) For the purpose of monitoring alarms, an equivalent level of monitoring service is available from multiple types of providers. The central monitoring station may be located at a one of the following:
(A) Government contractor monitoring station (GCMS), formerly called a proprietary central station.
(B) Cleared commercial central station.
(C) Cleared protective signal service station (
e.g.,
fire alarm monitor).
(D) Cleared residential monitoring station.
(E) National industrial monitoring station.
(ii) SECRET-cleared central station employees at the alarm monitoring station will be in attendance in sufficient number to monitor each alarmed area within the cleared contractor facility.
(iii) The central monitoring station will be supervised continuously by a U.S. citizen who has eligibility for access to SECRET information.
(iv) The IDS must be activated at the close of business whenever the area is not occupied by cleared personnel. Any IDS exit delay function must expire prior to the cleared personnel leaving the immediate area. A record will be maintained to identify the person or persons who are responsible for setting and deactivating the IDS.
(v) Records will be maintained for 12 months indicating time of receipt of alarm, name(s) of security force personnel responding, time dispatched to facility or area, time security force personnel arrived, nature of alarm, and what follow-up actions were accomplished.
(3)
Investigative response to alarms.
(i) Alarm response teams will ascertain if intrusion has occurred and, if possible, assist in the apprehension of the individuals involved.
(A) If an alarm activation resets in a reasonable amount of time and no damage to the area is visible, then entrance into the area is not required and an initial response team may consist of uncleared personnel.
(B) If the alarm activation does not reset and damage is observed, then a cleared response team must be dispatched. The initial uncleared response team must stay on station until relieved by the cleared response team. If a cleared response team does not arrive within 1 hour, then a report to the CSA must be made by the close of the next business day.
(ii) The following resources may be used to investigate alarms: Proprietary security force personnel, central station guards, local law enforcement personnel, or a subcontracted guard service. The CSA may approve procedures for the use of entity cleared employees who can meet the minimum response requirements outlined in this section.
(A) For a GCMS, trained proprietary or subcontractor security force personnel, cleared to the SECRET level and sufficient in number to be dispatched immediately to investigate each alarm, will be available at all times when the IDS is in operation.
(B) For a commercial central station, protective signaling service station, or residential monitoring station, there will be a sufficient number of trained guards available to respond to alarms. Guards will be cleared only if they have the ability and responsibility to access the area or container(s) housing classified material (
i.e.,
keys to the facility have been provided or the personnel are authorized to enter the building or check the container or area that contains classified material).
(C) Uncleared guards dispatched by a commercial central station, protective signaling service station, or residential monitoring station in response to an
alarm will remain on the premises until a designated, cleared representative of the facility arrives, or for a period of not less than 1 hour, whichever comes first. If a cleared representative of the facility does not arrive within 1 hour following the arrival of the guard, the central control station must provide the CSA with a report of the incident that includes the name of the subscriber facility, the date and time of the alarm, and the name of the subscriber's representative who was contacted to respond. A report will be submitted to the CSA by the end of business on the next business day.
(D) Subcontracted guards must be under a classified contract with either the installing alarm service company or the cleared facility.
(iii) The response time will be in accordance with the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) in this section as applicable. When environmental factors (
e.g.,
traffic, distance) legitimately prevent meeting the requirements for TOP SECRET information, as indicated in paragraph (c)(3) in this section, the CSA may authorize up to a 30-minute response time. The CSA approval will be documented on the alarm system description form and the specified response time will be noted on the alarm certificate. The requirement for response is 80 percent within the time limits.
(4)
Installation.
The IDS will be installed by an NRTL-approved entity or by an entity approved in writing by the CSA. When connected to a commercial central station, GCMS, national industrial monitoring station, or residential monitoring station, the service provided will include line security (
i.e.,
the connecting lines are electronically supervised to detect evidence of tampering or malfunction). The level of protection for the alarmed area will include all points of probable entry (perimeter doors and accessible windows) with magnetic contacts and motion detectors positioned in the probable intruder paths from the probable points of entry to the classified information. In accordance with Federal Standard 809, no IDS sensors (magnetic contacts or vibration detectors) will be installed on GSA-approved security containers. CSA authorization on the alarm system description form is required in the following circumstances:
(i) When line security is not available, installation will require two independent means of transmission of the alarm signal from the alarmed area to the monitoring station.
(ii) Alarm installation provides a level of protection,
e.g.
UL's Extent 5, based on patrolling employees and CSA approval of security-in-depth.
(iii) Where law enforcement personnel are the primary alarm response. Under those circumstances, the contractor must obtain written assurance from the police department regarding the ability to respond to alarms in the required response time.
(iv) Alarm signal transmission is over computer-controlled data-networks (
e.g.,
internet, intranet). The CSA will provide specific acceptance criteria (
e.g.,
encryption requirements) for alarms monitored over data networks.
(v) Alarm investigator response time exceeds the parameters outlined in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) in this section as applicable.
(5)
Certification of compliance.
Evidence of compliance with the requirements of this section will consist of a valid (current) certification by an approved NRTL for the appropriate category of service. This certificate:
(i) Will have been issued to the protected facility by the NRTL, through the alarm service company.
(ii) Serves as evidence that the alarm service company that did the installation is:
(A) Listed as furnishing security systems of the category indicated.
(B) Authorized to issue the certificate of installation as representation that the equipment is in compliance with requirements established by NRTL for the class of alarm system.
(C) Subject to the NRTL inspection program whereby periodic inspections are made of representative alarm installations by NRTL personnel to verify the correctness of certification practices.
(6)
Exceptional cases.
(i) If the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) in this section cannot be met, the contractor may request CSA approval for an alarm system meeting one of
these conditions, which will be documented on the alarm system description form:
(A) Monitored by a central control station but responded to by a local (municipal, county, state) law enforcement organization.
(B) Connected by direct wire to alarm receiving equipment located in a local (municipal, county, State) police station or public emergency service dispatch center. This alarm system is activated and deactivated by employees of the contractor, but the alarm is monitored and responded to by personnel of the monitoring police or emergency service dispatch organization. Personnel monitoring alarm signals at police stations or dispatch centers do not require PCLs. Police department response systems may be requested only when:
(
1
) The contractor facility is located in an area where central control station services are not available with line security or proprietary security force personnel, or a contractually-dispatched response to an alarm signal cannot be achieved within the time limits required by the CSA.
(
2
) It is impractical for the contractor to establish a GCMS or proprietary guard force at that location. In this case, installation of these systems must use NRTL-approved equipment and be accomplished by an NRTL-approved entity meeting the applicable testing standard for the category of service.
(ii) An installation proposal, explaining how the system would operate, will be submitted to the CSA. The proposal must include:
(A) Sufficient justification for the granting of an exception and the full name and address of the police department that will monitor the system and provide the required response.
(B) The name and address of the NRTL-approved entity that will install the system, and inspect, maintain, and repair the equipment.
(iii) The response times will be in accordance with the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) in this section as applicable. Arrangements will be made with the central monitoring station to immediately notify a contractor representative on receipt of the alarm. The contractor representative is required to go immediately to the facility to investigate the alarm and to take appropriate measures to secure the classified material.
(iv) In exceptional cases where central station monitoring service is available, but no proprietary security force, central station, or subcontracted guard response is available, and where the police department does not agree to respond to alarms, and no other manner of investigative response is available, the CSA may approve cleared employees as the sole means of response.
(e)
Information controls
—(1)
Information management system.
Contractors will establish:
(i) A system to verify that classified information in their custody is used or retained only for a lawful and authorized USG purpose.
(ii) An information management system to protect and control the classified information in their possession regardless of media, to include information processed and stored on authorized information systems.
(2)
Top secret information.
Contractors will establish controls for TOP SECRET information and material to validate procedures are in place to address accountability, need to know, and retention, e.g., demonstrating that TOP SECRET material stored in an electronic format on an authorized classified information system does not need to be individually numbered in series. These controls are in addition to the information management system and must be applied, unless otherwise directed by the applicable CSA, regardless of the media of the TOP SECRET information, to include information processed and stored on authorized information systems. Unless otherwise directed by the applicable CSA, the contractor will establish the following additional controls:
(i) Designate TOP SECRET control officials to receive, transmit, and maintain access and accountability records to TOP SECRET information.
(ii) Conduct an annual inventory of TOP SECRET information and material.
(iii) Establish a continuous receipt system for the transmittal of TOP SECRET information within and outside the contractor location.
(iv) Number each item of TOP SECRET material in a series. Place the copy number on TOP SECRET documents, regardless of media, and on all associated transactions documents.
(v) Establish a record of TOP SECRET material when the material is:
(A) Completed as a finished document.
(B) Retained for more than 180 days after creation, regardless of the stage of development.
(C) Transmitted outside the contractor location.
(vi) Establish procedures for destruction of TOP SECRET material by two authorized persons.
(vii) Establish destruction records for TOP SECRET material and maintain the records for two years in accordance with § 117.13(d)(5) or in accordance with GCA requirements.
(3)
Working papers.
Contractors will establish procedures for the control of classified working papers generated in the preparation of a finished document. The contractor will:
(i) Date working papers when they are created.
(ii) Mark each page of the working papers with the highest classification level of any information contained in them and with the annotation “WORKING PAPERS.”
(iii) Destroy working papers when no longer needed.
(iv) Mark in the same manner prescribed for a finished document at the same classification level if released outside the contractor location or retained for more than 180 days from the date of origin.
(4)
Combinations to locks.
Contractors will follow the guidance in 32 CFR 2001.45(a)(1) and 2001.43 (c) to address thresholds when combinations will be changed. Combinations to locks used to secure vaults, open storage areas, and security containers that are approved for the safeguarding of classified information will be protected in the same manner as the highest level of classified information that the vault, open storage area, or security container is used to protect.
(5)
Information system passwords.
Contractors will follow the guidance established in 32 CFR 2001.45(a)(2) for the protection of passwords to information systems authorized to process and store classified information at the highest level of classification to which the information system is authorized.
(6)
Reproduction of classified information.
Contractors will follow the guidance established in 32 CFR 2001.45(b) for the reproduction of classified information.
(f)
Transmission of classified information.
Contractors will establish procedures for transmitting and receiving classified information and material in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.46.
(1)
Top secret.
The contractor must have written authorization from the GCA to transmit TOP SECRET material outside the contractor location.
(2)
Transmission outside the United States and its Territorial Areas.
The contractor may transmit classified material to a USG activity outside the United States or a U.S. territorial area only under the provisions of a classified contract or with written authorization from the GCA.
(3)
Commercial delivery entities.
The CSA may approve contractors to transmit SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL information within the United States and its territorial areas by means of a commercial delivery entity that is a current holder of the GSA contract for overnight delivery, and which provides nation-wide, overnight service with computer tracking and reporting features (a list of current contract holders may be found at:
https://www.archives.gov/isoo/faqs#what-is-overnightcarriers
). Such entities do not need to be determined eligible for access to classified information.
(i) Prior to CSA approval, the contractor must establish and document procedures to ensure the proper protection of incoming and outgoing classified packages, including the street delivery address, for each cleared facility intending to use GSA-listed commercial delivery entities for overnight services.
(ii) Contractors will establish procedures for the use of commercial delivery entities in accordance with 32 CFR part 2001. The procedures will:
(A) Confirm that the commercial delivery entity provides nationwide, overnight delivery service with automated in-transit tracking of the classified packages.
(B) Ensure the package integrity during transit and that incoming shipments are received by appropriately cleared personnel.
(C) Not be used for COMSEC, NATO, or FGI.
(4)
Couriers and hand carriers.
Contractors may designate cleared employees as couriers or hand carriers. Contractors will:
(i) Brief employees providing such services on their responsibility to safeguard classified information and keep classified material in their possession at all times.
(ii) Provide employees with an identification card or badge which contains the contractor's name and the name and a photograph of the employee.
(iii) Make arrangements in advance of departure for overnight storage at a USG installation or at a cleared contractor's facility that has appropriate storage capability, if needed.
(iv) Conduct an inventory of the material prior to departure and upon return. The employee will carry a copy of the inventory with them.
(5)
Use of commercial passenger aircraft.
The contractor may authorize cleared employees to hand carry classified material aboard commercial passenger aircraft.
(i)
Routine processing.
Employees hand carrying classified material are subject to routine processing by airline security agents. Hand-held packages will normally be screened by x-ray examination. If security personnel are not satisfied with the results of the inspection and requests the prospective passenger to open a classified package for visual examination, the traveler must inform the screener that the carry-on items contain USG classified information and cannot be opened. Under no circumstances may traveler or security personnel open the classified material unless required by customs or other government officials.
(ii)
Special processing.
The contractor will contact the appropriate air carrier in advance to explain the particular circumstances and obtain instructions on the special screening procedures to follow when:
(A) Routine processing would subject the classified material to compromise or damage.
(B) Visual examination is or may be required to successfully screen a classified package.
(C) Classified material is in specialized containers, which due to its size, weight, or other physical characteristics cannot be routinely processed.
(iii)
Authorization letter.
Contractors will provide employees with written authorization to hand carry classified material on commercial aircraft that includes:
(A) Full name, date of birth, height, weight, and signature of the traveler and statement that he or she is authorized to transmit classified material.
(B) Description of the type of identification the traveler will present on request.
(C) Description of the material being hand carried, with a request that it be exempt from opening.
(D) Identification of the points of departure, destination, and known transfer points.
(E) Name, telephone number, and signature of the FSO, and the location and telephone number of the CSA.
(6)
Escorts.
If an escort is necessary to ensure the protection of the classified information being transported, the contractor will assign a sufficient number to each classified shipment to ensure continuous surveillance and control over the shipment while in transit. The contractor will furnish escorts with specific written instructions and operating procedures prior to shipping that include:
(i) Name and address of persons, including alternates, to whom the classified material is to be delivered.
(ii) Receipting procedures.
(iii) Means of transportation and the route to be used.
(iv) Duties of each escort during movement, during stops end route, and during loading and unloading operations.
(v) Emergency and communication procedures.
(g)
Destruction.
Contractors will:
(1) Destroy classified material in their possession based on the disposition instructions in the contract security classification specification or equivalent.
(2) Follow the guidance for destruction of classified material in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.47 and the destruction equipment standards in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.42(b). See
https://www.nsa.gov/resources/everyone/media-destruction/
and any CSA provided guidance for additional information.
(h)
Disclosure.
Contractors will establish processes by which classified information is disclosed only to authorized persons.
(1)
Disclosure to employees.
Contractors are authorized to disclose classified information to their cleared employees with the appropriate eligibility for access to classified information and need to know as necessary, including cleared employees across the MFO, when applicable, for the performance of tasks or services essential to the fulfillment of a classified contract or subcontract.
(2)
Disclosure to subcontractors.
(i) Contractors:
(A) Are authorized to disclose classified information to a cleared subcontractor with the appropriate entity eligibility determination (also known as a facility security clearance) and need to know when access to classified information is necessary for the performance of tasks or services essential to the fulfillment of a prime contract or a subcontract.
(B) Will convey appropriate classification guidance for the classified information to be disclosed with the subcontract in accordance with § 117.13.
(ii) The CSA must have:
(A) Made a determination of eligibility for access to classified information for the subcontractor, at the same level, or higher, than the classified information to be disclosed, to allow for such disclosures.
(B) Approved storage capability for classified material at the subcontractor location if a physical transfer of classified material occurs.
(3)
Disclosure between parent and subsidiaries.
(i) Contractors:
(A) Are authorized to disclose classified information between parent and subsidiary entities with the appropriate entity eligibility determination (also known as a facility security clearance) and need to know when access to classified information is necessary for the performance of tasks or services essential to the fulfillment of a prime or subcontract.
(B) Will convey appropriate classification guidance with the agreement or procurement action that necessitates the disclosure.
(ii)
The CSA must have:
(A) Made a determination of eligibility for access to classified information for both the parent and subsidiary, at the same level, or higher, than the classified information to be disclosed, to allow for such disclosures.
(B) Approved storage capability for classified material at the parent and the subsidiary if a physical transfer of classified material occurs.
(4)
Disclosure to federal agencies.
Contractors will not disclose classified information received or generated under a contract from one agency to any other federal agency unless specifically authorized by the agency that has classification jurisdiction over the information.
(5)
Disclosure of classified information to foreign persons.
Contractors will not disclose classified information to foreign persons unless specified by the contract and release of the information is authorized in writing by the government agency having classification jurisdiction over the information involved,
i.e.
the DOE for RD and FRD (also see § 117.23), the NSA for COMSEC, the DNI for SCI, and all other executive branch departments and agencies for classified information under their respective jurisdictions.
(6)
Disclosure to other contractors.
Contractors will not disclose classified information to another contractor except in furtherance of a contract, subcontract, or other GCA purpose without the authorization of the GCA, if such authorization is required by contract.
(7)
Disclosure of classified information in connection with litigation.
Contractors will not disclose classified information to:
(i) Attorneys hired solely to represent the contractor in any civil or criminal case in federal or State courts unless the disclosure is specifically authorized by the agency that has jurisdiction over the information.
(ii) Any federal or state court except on specific instructions of the agency, which has jurisdiction over the information or the attorney representing the United States in the case.
(8)
Disclosure to the public.
Contractors will not disclose classified information to the public. Contractors will not disclose unclassified information pertaining to a classified contract to the public without prior review and clearance as specified in the Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, for the contract or as otherwise specified by the GCA. The procedures of this paragraph also apply to information pertaining to classified contracts intended for use in unclassified brochures, promotional sales literature, reports to stockholders, or similar material.
(i) The contractor will:
(A) Submit requests for approval through the activity specified in the GCA-provided classification guidance for the contract involved.
(B) Include in each request the approximate date the contractor intends to release the information for public disclosure and identify the media to be used for the initial release.
(C) Retain a copy of each approved request for release for a period of one inspection cycle for review by the CSA.
(D) Clear all information developed subsequent to the initial approval through the appropriate office prior to public disclosure.
(ii) Unless specifically prohibited by the GCA, the contractor does not need to request approval for disclosure of:
(A) The fact that a contract has been received, including the subject of the contract or type of item in general terms provided the name or description of the subject is not classified.
(B) The method or type of contract.
(C) Total dollar amount of the contract unless that information equates to:
(
1
) A level of effort in a sensitive research area.
(
2
) Quantities of stocks of certain weapons and equipment that are classified.
(D) Whether the contract will require the hiring or termination of employees.
(E) Other information that from time-to-time may be authorized on a case-by-case basis in a specific agreement with the contractor.
(F) Information previously officially approved for public disclosure.
(iii) Information that has been declassified is not authorized for public disclosure. If the information is comingled with CUI, or qualifies as CUI once declassified, it will be marked and protected as CUI until it is decontrolled pursuant to 32 CFR part 2002 and reviewed for public release. If the information does not qualify as CUI, it will be protected in accordance with the basic safeguarding requirements in 48 CFR 52.204-21 and subject to the agency's public release procedures. Contractors will request approval for public disclosure of declassified information in accordance with the procedures of this paragraph.
(i)
Disposition.
Contractors will:
(1) Establish procedures for review of their classified holdings on a recurring basis to ensure the classified holdings are in support of a current contract or authorization to retain beyond the end of the contract period.
(2) Destroy duplicate copies as soon as practical.
(3) For disposition of classified material not received under a specific contract:
(i) Return or destroy classified material received with a bid, proposal, or quote if the bid, proposal, or quote is not:
(A) Submitted or is withdrawn within 180 days after the opening date of bids, proposals, or quotes.
(B) Accepted within 180 days after notification that a bid, proposal, or quote has not been accepted.
(ii) If the classified material was not received under a specific contract, such as material obtained at classified meetings or from a secondary distribution center, return or destroy the classified material within one year after receipt.
(j)
Retention.
The provisions of § 117.13(d)(5) apply for retention of classified material upon completion of a classified contract.
(1) If contractors propose to retain copies of classified material beyond 2 years, the contractor will identify:
(i) TOP SECRET material identified in a list of specific documents unless the GCA authorizes identification by subject and approximate number of documents.
(ii) SECRET and CONFIDENTIAL material may be identified by general subject and the approximate number of documents.
(iii) Contractors will include a statement of justification for retention beyond two years based on if the material:
(A) Is necessary for the maintenance of the contractor's essential records.
(B) Is patentable or proprietary data to which the contractor has the title.
(C) Will assist the contractor in independent research and development efforts.
(D) Will benefit the USG in the performance of other prospective or existing agency contracts.
(E) Will benefit the USG in the performance of another active contract and will be transferred to that contract (specify contract).
(2) If the GCA does not authorize retention beyond two years, the contractor will destroy all classified material received or generated in the performance of a classified contract unless it has been declassified or the GCA has requested that the material be returned.
(k)
Termination of security agreement.
Notwithstanding the provisions for retention outlined in paragraph (i) in this section, in the event that the CSA terminates the contractor's eligibility for access to classified information, the contractor will return all classified material in its possession to the GCA concerned, or dispose of such material in accordance with instructions from the CSA.
(l)
Safeguarding CUI.
While outside the requirements of the NISPOM, when a classified contract also includes provisions for protection of CUI, contractors will comply with those contract requirements.
§ 117.16
Visits and meetings.
(a)
Visits.
This paragraph applies when, for a lawful and authorized USG purpose, it is anticipated that classified information will be disclosed during a visit to a cleared contractor facility or to a USG facility.
(1)
Classified visits.
The number of classified visits will be held to a minimum. The contractor:
(i) Must determine that the visit is necessary and the purpose of the visit cannot be achieved without access to, or disclosure of, classified information.
(ii) Will establish procedures to ensure positive identification of visitors, appropriate PCL, and need-to-know prior to the disclosure of any classified information.
(iii) Will establish procedures to ensure that visitors are only afforded access to classified information consistent with the purpose of the visit.
(2)
Need-to-know determination.
The responsibility for determining need-to-know in connection with a classified visit rests with the individual who will disclose classified information during the visit. Need-to-know is generally based on a contractual relationship between the contractors. In other circumstances, disclosure of the information will be based on an assessment that the receiving contractor has a bona fide need to access the information in furtherance of a GCA purpose.
(3)
Visits by USG representatives.
Representatives of the USG, when acting in their official capacities as inspectors, investigators, or auditors, may visit a contractor's facility, provided these representatives present appropriate USG credentials upon arrival.
(4)
Visit authorization.
(i) If a visit requires access to classified information, the host contractor will verify the visitor's PCL level. Verification of a visitor's PCL may be accomplished by a review of a CSA-designated database that contains the information or by a visit authorization letter (VAL) provided by the visitor's employer.
(ii) If a CSA-designated database is not available and a VAL is required, contractors will include in all VALs:
(A) Contractor's name, employee's name, address, and telephone number, assigned commercial and government entity (CAGE) code, if applicable, and
certification of the level of the entity eligibility determination.
(B) Name, date and place of birth, and citizenship of the employee intending to visit.
(C) Certification of the proposed visitor's PCL and any special access authorizations required for the visit.
(D) Name of person(s) to be visited.
(E) Purpose and sufficient justification for the visit to allow for a determination of the necessity of the visit.
(F) Date or period during which the VAL is to be valid.
(5)
Long term visitors.
(i) When USG employees or employees of one contractor are temporarily stationed at another contractor's facility, the security procedures of the host contractor will govern.
(ii) USG personnel assigned to or visiting a contractor facility and engaged in oversight of an acquisition program will retain control of their work product. Classified work products of USG employees will be handled in accordance with this rule. Contractor procedures will not require USG employees to relinquish control of their work products, whether classified or not, to a contractor.
(iii) Contractor employees at USG installations will follow the security requirements of the host. This does not relieve the contractor from security oversight of their employees who are long-term visitors at USG installations.
(b)
Classified meetings.
This paragraph applies to a conference, seminar, symposium, exhibit, convention, training course, or other such gathering during which classified information is disclosed, hereafter called a “meeting.” Disclosure of classified information to large diverse audiences such as conferences increases security risks. Classified disclosure at such meetings may occur when it serves a government purpose and adequate security measures have been provided in advance.
(1)
Meeting conducted by a cleared contractor.
If conducted by a cleared contractor, the meeting is authorized by a USG agency that has agreed to assume security jurisdiction. The USG agency:
(i) Must approve security arrangements, announcements, attendees, and the location of the meeting.
(ii) May delegate certain responsibilities to a cleared contractor for the security arrangements and other actions necessary for the meeting under the general supervision of the USG agency.
(2)
Request for authorization.
Contractors desiring to conduct meetings that require sponsorship will submit their requests to the USG agency that has principal interest in the subject of each meeting. Requests for authorization will include:
(i) An explanation of the USG purpose to be served by disclosing classified information at the meeting and why the use of conventional channels for release of the classified information will not advance those interests.
(ii) The subject of the meeting and scope of classified topics, to include the classification level, to be disclosed at the meeting.
(iii) The expected dates and location of the meeting.
(iv) The general content of the proposed announcement or invitation to be sent to prospective attendees or participants.
(v) The identity of any other non-government organization involved and a full description of the type of support it will provide.
(vi) A list of any foreign representatives (including their nationality, name, organizational affiliation) whose attendance at the meeting is proposed.
(vii) A description of the security arrangements necessary for the meeting to comply with the requirements of this rule.
(3)
Locations of meetings.
Classified sessions will be held only at a USG installation or a cleared contractor facility where adequate physical security and procedural controls have been approved. The authorizing USG agency is responsible for evaluating and approving the location proposed for the meeting.
(4)
Security arrangements for meetings.
The contractor will develop the security measures and procedures to be used and obtain the authorizing agency's approval. The security arrangements must provide:
(i)
Announcements.
Approval of the authorizing agency will be obtained for all announcements of the meeting.
(A) Announcements will be unclassified and will be limited to a general description of topics expected to be presented, names of speakers, and administrative instructions for requesting invitations or participation. Classified presentations will not be solicited in the announcement.
(B) When the meeting has been approved, announcements may only state that the USG agency has authorized the conduct of classified sessions and will provide necessary security assistance.
(C) The announcement will further specify that security clearances and justification to attend classified sessions are to be forwarded to the authorizing agency or its designee.
(D) Invitations to foreign persons will be sent by the authorizing USG agency.
(ii)
Clearance and need-to-know.
All persons in attendance at classified sessions will possess the requisite clearance and need-to-know for the information to be disclosed.
(A) Need-to-know will be determined by the authorizing agency or its designee based on the justification provided.
(B) Attendance will be authorized only to those persons whose security clearance and justification for attendance have been verified by the security officer of the organization represented.
(C) The names of all authorized attendees or participants must appear on an access list with entry permitted to the classified session only after verification of the attendee's identity based on presentation of official photographic identification such as a passport, contractor or USG identification card.
(iii)
Presentations.
Classified information must be authorized for disclosure in advance by the USG agency having jurisdiction over the information to be presented.
(A) Individuals making presentations at meetings will provide sufficient classification guidance to enable attendees to identify what information is classified and the level of classification.
(B) Classified presentations will be delivered orally or visually.
(C) Copies of classified presentation materials will not be distributed at the classified meeting, and any classified notes or electronic recordings of classified presentations will be classified, safeguarded, and transmitted as required by this rule.
(iv)
Physical security.
The physical security measures for the classified sessions will provide for control of, access to, and dissemination of, the classified information to be presented and will provide for secure storage capability, if necessary.
(5)
Disclosure authority at meetings.
Authority to disclose classified information at meetings, whether disclosure is by officials of industry or USG, must be granted by the USG agency or activity that has classification jurisdiction over the information to be disclosed. Each contractor that desires to disclose classified information at a meeting is responsible for requesting and obtaining disclosure approvals. Associations are not responsible for ensuring that classified presentations and papers of other organizations have been approved for disclosure. A contractor desiring to disclose classified information at a meeting will:
(i) Obtain prior written authorization for each proposed disclosure of classified information from the USG agency having jurisdiction over the information involved.
(ii) Furnish a copy of the disclosure authorization to the USG agency sponsoring the meeting.
(6)
Requests to attend classified meetings.
Before a contractor employee can attend a classified meeting, the contractor will provide justification for why the employee requires access to the classified information, cite the classified contract or GCA program or project involved, and forward the information to the authorizing USG agency.
§ 117.17
Subcontracting.
(a)
Prime contractor responsibilities
—(1)
Responsibilities.
Before a prime contractor may release or disclose classified information to a subcontractor, or
cause classified information to be generated by a subcontractor, a determination that access to classified information will be required and such access serves a legitimate USG requirement for the performance of a “classified contract” in accordance with § 117.9(a) must be made. Prime contractors are responsible for communicating the appropriate security requirements to all subcontractors.
(i) A “security requirements clause” and a “Contract Security Classification Specification,” or equivalent, will be incorporated in the solicitation and in the subcontract. (See the “security requirements clause” in the prime contract.)
(ii) The subcontractor must possess an appropriate entity eligibility determination and a classified information safeguarding capability if possession of classified information will be required.
(A) If access to classified information will not be required in the pre-award phase, prospective subcontractors are not required to possess an entity eligibility determination to receive or bid on the solicitation.
(B) If a prospective subcontractor requires access to classified information during the pre-award phase and does not have the appropriate entity eligibility determination or a classified information safeguarding capability, the prime contractor will request the CSA of the subcontractor to initiate the necessary action.
(iii) If access to classified information will not be required, the contract is not a classified contract within the meaning of this rule. If the prime contract contains requirements for release or disclosure of protected information that is not classified, such as CUI, the requirements will be incorporated in the solicitation and the subcontract and are not covered by this rule.
(2)
Prospective subcontractors entity eligibility determinations.
(i) The prime contractor will verify whether the prospective subcontractors have the appropriate entity eligibility determination and also a classified information safeguarding capability, if a subcontract requirement. This determination can be made if there is an existing contractual relationship between the parties involving classified information of the same or higher category, and must be verified by accessing the CSA-designated database, or by contacting the CSA.
(ii) If a prospective subcontractor does not have the appropriate entity eligibility determination or a classified information safeguarding capability, the prime contractor will request that the CSA of the subcontractor initiate the necessary action.
(A) Requests will include, at a minimum, the full name, address, and contact information for the requester; the full name, address, and contact information for a contact at the facility to be processed for an entity eligibility determination; the level of clearance and the required classified information safeguarding capability; and full justification for the request.
(B) Requests for safeguarding capability will include a description, quantity, end-item, and classification of the information related to the proposed subcontract.
(C) Other factors necessary to help the CSA determine if the prospective subcontractor meets the requirements of this rule will be identified, such as any special access requirements.
(3)
Lead time for entity eligibility determination when awarding to an uncleared subcontractor.
Requesting contractors will allow sufficient lead time in connection with the award of a classified subcontract to enable an uncleared bidder to be processed for the necessary entity eligibility determination. When the entity eligibility determination cannot be granted in sufficient time to qualify the prospective subcontractor for participation in the current procurement action, the CSA will continue the entity eligibility determination processing action to qualify the prospective subcontractor for future contract consideration provided:
(i) The delay in processing the entity eligibility determination was not caused by a lack of cooperation on the part of the prospective subcontractor.
(ii) Future classified negotiations may occur within 12 months.
(iii) There is reasonable likelihood the subcontractor may be awarded a classified subcontract.
(iv)
Subcontracting that involves access to FGI.
(A) A U.S. contractor may
award a subcontract that involves access to FGI to another U.S. contractor after verifying with the CSA that the prospective subcontractor has the appropriate entity eligibility determination and a classified information storage capability, and review of the prime contract to determine if there are any contractual limitations for approval before awarding a subcontract. The contractor awarding a subcontract will provide appropriate security classification guidance and incorporate the pertinent security provisions in the subcontract.
(B) The contractor cannot award subcontracts involving FGI to a contractor in a third country or to a U.S. entity with a limited entity eligibility determination based on third-country FOCI without the express written consent of the originating foreign government. The CSA will coordinate with the appropriate foreign government authorities.
(b)
Security classification guidance.
(1) Prime contractors will ensure that a Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, is incorporated in each classified subcontract.
(i) When preparing classification guidance for a subcontract, the prime contractor may extract pertinent information from:
(A) The Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, issued with the prime contract.
(B) Security classification guides issued with the prime contract.
(C) Any security guides that provide guidance for the classified information furnished to, or that will be generated by, the subcontractor.
(ii) The Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, prepared by the prime contractor will be certified by a designated official of the contractor.
(iii) In the absence of exceptional circumstances, the classification specification will not contain any classified information. If classified supplements are required as part of the Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, they will be identified and forwarded to the subcontractor by separate correspondence.
(2) An original Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, will be included with each RFQ, RFP, IFB, or other solicitation to ensure that the prospective subcontractor is aware of the security requirements of the subcontract and can plan accordingly. An original Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, will also be included in the subcontract awarded to the successful bidder.
(3) A revised Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, will be issued as necessary during the lifetime of the subcontract when the security requirements change.
(4) Requests for public release by a subcontractor will be forwarded through the prime contractor to the GCA.
(c)
Responsibilities upon completion of the subcontracts.
(1) Upon completion of the subcontract, the subcontractor may retain classified material received or generated under the subcontract for a two-year period, in accordance with the provisions in § 117.13(d)(5).
(2) If retention is required beyond the two-year period, the subcontractor must request written retention authority through the prime contractor to the GCA, including the information required by § 117.15(j).
(3) If retention authority is approved by the GCA, the prime contractor will issue a final Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, annotated to provide the retention period and final disposition instructions.
(d)
Notification of invalidation, marginal, or unsatisfactory conditions.
The prime contractor will be notified if the CSA discovers marginal or unsatisfactory conditions at the subcontractor's facility or if the CSA invalidates the subcontractor's facility clearance. Once notified, the prime contractor will follow the instructions received on what action, if any, should be taken in order to safeguard classified material relating to the subcontract.
§ 117.18
Information system security.
(a)
General.
(1) Contractor information systems that are used to capture, create, store, process, or distribute classified information must be properly managed to protect against unauthorized disclosure of classified information. The contractor will implement
protective measures using a risk-based approach that incorporates minimum standards for their insider threat program in accordance with CSA-provided guidance.
(2) The CSA will issue guidance based on requirements for federal systems, pursuant to 44 U.S.C. Ch. 35 of subchapter II, also known as the “Federal Information Security Modernization Act,” and as set forth in National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-37 (available at:
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-37/rev-2/final
), Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) Instruction 1253 (available at:
https://www.cnss.gov/CNSS/openDoc.cfm?QwPYrAJ5Ldq+s+jvttTznQ==
), and other applicable CNSS and NIST publications (
e.g.,
NIST Special Publication 800-53).
(b)
Information system security program.
The contractor will maintain an information system security program that supports overall information security by incorporating a risk-based set of management, operational, and technical security controls in accordance with CSA-provided guidance. The contractor will incorporate into the program:
(1) Policies and procedures that reduce information security risks to an acceptable level and address information security throughout the information system life cycle.
(2) Plans and procedures to assess, report, isolate, and contain data spills and compromises, to include sanitization and recovery methods.
(3) Information system security training for authorized users, as required in CSA provided guidance.
(4) Policies and procedures that address key components of the contractor's insider threat program, such as:
(i) User activity monitoring network activity, either automated or manual.
(ii) Information sharing procedures.
(iii) A continuous monitoring program.
(iv) Protecting, interpreting, storing, and limiting access to user activity monitoring automated logs to privileged users.
(5) Processes to continually evaluate threats and vulnerabilities to contractor activities, facilities, and information systems to ascertain the need for additional safeguards.
(6) Change control processes to accommodate configuration management and to identify security relevant changes that may require re-authorization of the information system.
(7) Methods to ensure users are aware of rights and responsibilities through the use of banners and user agreements.
(c)
Contractor responsibilities
—(1)
Certification.
The contractor will:
(i) Certify to the CSA that the security program for information systems to process classified information addresses management, operation, and technical controls in accordance with CSA-provided guidelines.
(ii) Provide adequate resources to the information system security program and organizationally align to ensure prompt support and successful execution of a compliant information system security program.
(2)
ISSM.
Contractors that are or will be processing classified information on an information system will appoint an employee ISSM. The contractor will confirm that the ISSM is adequately trained, has sufficient experience, and possesses technical competence commensurate with the complexity of the information system. The ISSM will:
(i) Oversee the development, implementation, and evaluation of the contractor's information system program for contractor management, information system personnel, users, and others as appropriate.
(ii) Coordinate with the contractor's insider threat senior program official so that insider threat awareness is addressed in the contractor's information system security program.
(iii) Develop, document, and monitor compliance of the contractor's information system security program in accordance with CSA-provided guidelines for management, operational, and technical controls.
(iv) Verify self-inspections are conducted at least every 12 months on the contractor's information systems that process classified information, and that corrective actions are taken for all identified findings.
(v) Certify to the CSA in writing that the systems security plan (SSP) is implemented for each authorized information systems, specified in the SSP; the specified security controls are in place and properly tested; and the information system continues to function as described in the SSP.
(vi) Brief users on their responsibilities with regard to information system security and verify that contractor personnel are trained on the security restrictions and safeguards of the information system prior to access to an authorized information system.
(vii) Develop and maintain security documentation of the security authorization request to the CSA. Documentation may include:
(A) SSPs.
(B) Security assessment reports.
(C) Plans of actions and milestones.
(D) Risk assessments.
(E) Authorization decision letters.
(F) Contingency plans.
(G) Configuration management plans.
(H) Security configuration checklists.
(I) System interconnection agreements.
(3)
Information systems security officer (ISSO).
The ISSM may assign an ISSO. If assigned, the ISSO will:
(i) Verify the implementation of the contractor's information system security program as delegated by the ISSM.
(ii) Ensure continuous monitoring strategies and verify corrective actions to the ISSM.
(iii) Conduct self-inspections and verify corrective actions to the ISSM.
(4)
Information system users.
All information system users will:
(i) Comply with the information system security program requirements as part of their responsibilities for protecting classified information.
(ii) Be accountable for their actions on an authorized information system.
(iii) Not share any authentication mechanisms (including passwords) issued for the control of their access to an information system.
(iv) Protect authentication mechanisms at the highest classification level and most restrictive classification category of information to which the mechanisms permit access.
(v) Be subject to monitoring of their activity on any classified network, understanding that the results of such monitoring can be used against them in a criminal, security, or administrative proceeding or action.
(vi) Notify the ISSM or ISSO when access to a classified system is no longer required.
(d)
Information system security life-cycle.
The CSA-provided guidance on the information system security life-cycle is based on the risk management framework outlined in NIST special publication 800-37 that emphasizes:
(1) Building security into information systems during initial development.
(2) Maintaining continuous awareness of the current state of information system security.
(3) Keeping contractor management informed to facilitate risk management decisions.
(4) Supporting reciprocity of information system authorizations.
(e)
Risk management framework.
The risk management framework is a seven-step process used for managing information system security-related risks. These steps will be used to help ensure security capabilities provided by the selected security controls are implemented, tested, validated, and approved by the USG authorizing official with a degree of assurance appropriate for the information system. This process accommodates an on-going risk mitigation strategy.
(1)
Prepare.
The contractor will execute essential activities at the organization, mission and business process, and system levels of the organization to help prepare the organization to manage its security and privacy risks using the Risk Management Framework.
(2)
Categorize.
The contractor will categorize the information system and the information processed, stored, and transmitted by the information system based on an impact analysis. Unless imposed by contract, the information system baseline is moderate-confidentiality, low-integrity, and low-availability.
(3)
Select.
The contractor will select an initial set of baseline security controls for the information system based
on the security categorization; tailoring and supplementing the security control baseline as needed based on an organizational assessment of risk and local conditions.
(4)
Implement.
The contractor will implement the security controls and document how the controls are deployed within the information system and the operational environment.
(5)
Assess.
The contractor will assess the security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the information system. The contractor will review and certify to the CSA that all systems have the appropriate protection measures in place.
(6)
Authorize.
The CSA will use the information provided by the contractor to make a timely, credible, and risk-based decision to authorize the system to process classified information. The CSA must authorize the system before the contractor can use the system to process classified information.
(7)
Monitor.
The contractor will monitor and assess selected security controls in the information system on an ongoing basis:
(i) Effectiveness of security controls.
(ii) Documentation of changes to the information system and the operational environment.
(iii) Analysis of the security impact of changes to the information system.
(iv) Making appropriate reports to the CSA.
(f)
Unclassified information systems that process, store, or transmit CUI.
While outside the requirements of the NISPOM, contractors will comply with contract requirements regarding contractor information systems that process, store, or transmit CUI.
§ 117.19
International security requirements.
(a)
General.
This section provides information and procedures governing the protection of classified information in international programs.
(b)
Disclosure of classified U.S. information to foreign interests
—(1)
Applicable federal law.
The transfer of articles, services, and related data to a foreign person, within or outside the United States, or the movement of such material or information to any destination outside of the legal jurisdiction of the United States constitutes an export. Depending on the nature of the articles or data, most exports are pursuant to (1) 22 U.S.C. chapter 39, also known and referred to in this rule as the “Arms Export Control Act,” (2) 50 U.S.C. 4801
et seq.,
also known as the “Export Control Reform Act of 2018,” or (3) the AEA. This section applies to those exports that involve classified information.
(2)
Security agreements
—(i) Bilateral security agreements (
e.g.,
General Security of Information Agreements and General Security of Military Information Agreements) are negotiated with various foreign governments. Confidentiality requested by some foreign governments prevents a listing of the countries that have executed these agreements. The bilateral security agreement, negotiated through diplomatic channels:
(A) Requires that each government provide substantially the same degree of protection to classified information released by the other government.
(B) Contains provisions concerning limits on the use of each government's information, including restrictions on third-party transfers and proprietary rights.
(C) Does not commit governments to share classified information, nor does it constitute authority to release classified material to that government.
(D) Satisfies, in part, the eligibility requirements of the Arms Export Control Act concerning the agreement of the recipient foreign government to protect U.S. classified defense articles and classified information.
(ii) The applicable CSA will provide a mechanism for contractors to access, for official purposes, classified general security agreements.
(iii) Industrial security agreements have been negotiated with certain foreign governments that identify the procedures to be used when foreign government classified information is provided to U.S. industry and UUSG classified information is provided to foreign defense industry.
(3)
Authorization for disclosure.
The GCA will provide disclosure guidance.
(i) Contractors will only disclose non-public USG information to foreign persons in accordance with specified requirements of the contract. In the absence of any specified requirements the contractor will not disclose non-public USG information to foreign persons.
(ii) Disclosure authorization may be in the form of an export license or other export authorization by a cognizant export authority.
(iii) The contractor may not use disclosure guidance provided by the GCA for a previous contract or program unless so instructed in writing by the GCA or the licensing authority.
(iv) Disclosure and export of classified information, authorized by an appropriate USG disclosure official, by a contractor will ensure the following:
(A)
International agreements.
Contractors may not disclose classified information until agreements are signed by the participating government and disclosure guidance and security arrangements are established. The export of technical data pursuant to such agreements may be exempt by approval of the Department of State or the Department of Commerce.
(B)
Symposia, seminars, exhibitions, and conferences.
Contractors must assure that any foreign nationals who will be attending a classified gathering have the appropriate export license, disclosure authority, and security assurance on file.
(C)
Visits by foreign nationals to the contractor.
The contractor will limit disclosure of classified information to that specific information authorized in connection with an approved visit request and an export authorization, as required.
(D)
Temporary exports.
Classified articles, including articles that require the use of classified information for operation, exported for demonstration purposes must remain under U.S. control. The contractor must obtain an export authorization from the relevant authority (
i.e.,
from the Department of State in accordance with 22 CFR parts 120-130, also known as and referred to in this rule as the “International Traffic in Arms Regulations,” or from the Department of Commerce in accordance with 15 CFR parts 730-774, also known as the “Export Administration Regulations”).
(4)
Direct commercial arrangements.
(i) The disclosure of classified information may be authorized pursuant to a direct commercial sale with the appropriate export authorization. A direct commercial arrangement includes sales, loans, leases, or grants of classified items, including sales under a government agency sales financing program.
(ii) If a proposed disclosure is in support of a foreign government requirement, the contractor should consult with U.S. in-country officials, normally the U.S. Security Assistance/Armaments Cooperation Office or Commercial Counselor.
(A) Before a contractor makes a proposal to a foreign interest that involves the eventual disclosure of U.S. classified information, the contractor must obtain appropriate government disclosure authorization.
(B) Such disclosure authorization does not equate with authorization for export. Export authorization must be obtained from the appropriate regulatory body.
(iii) The contractor will request a FCL assurance for a foreign entity through the CSA from the security authority of the foreign entity's sponsoring government prior to entering into a contractual arrangement with the foreign entity.
(5)
Subcontract security provisions.
(i) A U.S. contractor may be authorized to enter into an agreement involving classified information with a foreign contractor. The U.S. contractor's empowered official will verify the contractor can release the information to a foreign person. Such agreements may include:
(A) Award of a subcontract.
(B) Department of State authorized manufacturing license agreement, technical assistance agreement, or other direct commercial arrangement.
(ii) The contractor will incorporate security provisions into the subcontract document or agreement, and provide security classification guidance by means of a Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent.
(iii) The contractor will provide a copy of the signed contract with the provisions and the classification guidance to the CSA.
(iv) If the export authorization specifies that additional security arrangements are necessary for performance on the contract, the contractor will incorporate those additional arrangements by appropriate provision in the contract or in a separate security document.
(v) The contractor will prepare and maintain a written record that identifies the originator or source of classified information that will be used in providing classified defense articles, material or services to foreign customers. The contractor will maintain this listing with the contractor's record copy of the pertinent export authorization.
(vi) The contractor will include the security provisions in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) in this section in all contracts and subcontracts involving classified information that are awarded to foreign contractors. Contractors must insert the bracketed contract specific information (
e.g.,
applicable country and disposition of classified material) where noted, when using the following security clauses in the contract.
(A) All classified information and material furnished or generated under the contract will be protected to ensure that:
(
1
) The recipient will not release the information or material to any third party without disclosure authorization and export authorization, as appropriate.
(
2
) The recipient will afford the information and material a degree of protection equivalent to that afforded it by the releasing government.
(
3
) The recipient will not use the information and material for other than the purpose for which it was furnished without the prior written consent of the releasing government.
(B) Classified information and material furnished or generated under this contract will be transferred through government channels or other channels specified in writing by the governments of the United States and [insert applicable country]. It will only be transferred to persons who have an appropriate security clearance and an official need for access to the information in order to perform on the contract.
(C) Classified information and material furnished under the contract will be re-marked by the recipient with its government's equivalent security classification markings.
(D) Classified information and material generated under the contract must be assigned a security classification as specified by the Contract Security Classification Specifications, or equivalent, provided with this contract.
(E) All cases in which it is known or there is reason to believe that classified information or material furnished or generated under the contract has been lost or disclosed to unauthorized persons will be reported promptly and fully by the contractor to its government's security authorities.
(F) Classified information and material furnished or generated pursuant to the contract will not be further provided to another potential contractor or subcontractor unless:
(
1
) A potential contractor which is located in the United States or [insert applicable country] has been approved for access to classified information and material by the USG or [insert applicable country] security authorities; or
(
2
) If located in a third country, prior written USG consent is obtained.
(G) Upon completion of the contract, all classified material furnished or generated pursuant to the contract will be [insert whether the material is to be returned or destroyed, or provide other instructions].
(H) The recipient contractor will insert terms that substantially conform to the language of these provisions, including this one, in all subcontracts under this contract that involve access to classified information furnished or generated under this contract.
(c)
FGI
—(1)
General.
The contractor will notify the csa when awarded contracts by a foreign interest that will involve access to classified information. The csa will oversee and ensure implementation of the security requirements of the contract on behalf of the foreign government, including the
establishment of channels for the transfer of classified material.
(2)
Contract security requirements.
The foreign entity that awards a classified contract is responsible for providing appropriate security classification guidance and any security requirements clauses. The contractor will report to the CSA when a foreign entity fails to provide classification guidance.
(3)
Marking foreign government classified material.
Foreign government classified material will be marked in accordance with § 117.14(l).
(4)
Foreign Government RESTRICTED Information and “In Confidence” Information.
Foreign government RESTRICTED information and “in confidence” information will be marked in accordance with § 117.14(m).
(5)
Marking U.S. documents containing FGI.
U.S. documents containing FGI will be marked in accordance with § 117.14(n).
(6)
Marking documents prepared for foreign governments.
Marking documents prepared for foreign governments will be marked in accordance with § 117.14(o).
(7)
Storage and control.
Contractors will store foreign government material and control access generally in the same manner as U.S. classified material of an equivalent classification. Contractors will store foreign government material in a manner that will separate it from other material. Separation can be accomplished by establishing distinct files in a storage container or on an information system.
(8)
Disclosure and use limitations.
(i) FGI is provided by the foreign government to the United States. The contractor will:
(A) Not disclose FGI to nationals of a third country, or to any other third party, or use it for any purpose other than that for which it was provided without the prior written consent of the originating foreign government.
(B) Submit requests for other uses or further disclosure to the GCA for U.S. contracts, and through the CSA for direct commercial contracts.
(ii) Approval of the request by the foreign government does not eliminate the requirement for the contractor to obtain an export authorization.
(9)
Transfer.
The contractor will transfer FGI within the United States and its territories using the same channels as specified for U.S. classified information of an equivalent classification, except that contractors cannot use non-cleared express overnight carriers for FGI.
(10)
Reproduction.
The reproduction of foreign government TOP SECRET or equivalent information requires the written approval of the originating government.
(11)
Disposition.
The contractor:
(i) Will destroy FGI on completion of the contract unless the contract specifically authorizes retention or return of the information to the U.S. GCA or foreign government that provided the information.
(ii) Must witness the destruction of TOP SECRET, execute a destruction certificate, and retain the destruction certificate for two years.
(12)
Reporting of improper receipt of foreign government material.
The contractor will report improper receipt of foreign government material in accordance with § 117.8(c)(13).
(13)
Subcontracting.
Subcontracting procedures will be in accordance with § 117.17(a)(4).
(d)
International transfers of classified material
—(1)
General.
This paragraph (d) contains the procedures for international transfers of classified material through government-to-government channels or other arrangements agreed to by the governments involved, otherwise referred to as government-to-government transfers. The requirements in this paragraph (d) do not apply to the transmission of classified material to usg activities outside the united states.
(i) All international transfers of classified material must take place through channels approved by both governments. U.S. control of classified material must be maintained until the material is officially transferred to the intended recipient government through its designated government representative (DGR).
(ii) To ensure government control, written transmission instructions must
be prepared for all international transfers of classified material. The contractor is responsible for the preparation of instructions for direct commercial arrangements, and the GCA will prepare instructions for government arrangements.
(iii) The contractor will contact the CSA at the earliest possible stage in deliberations that will lead to the international transfer of classified material. The CSA will advise the contractor on the transfer arrangements, identify the recipient government's DGR, appoint a U.S. DGR, and ensure that the transportation plan prepared by the contractor or foreign government is adequate.
(iv) The contractor's empowered official is responsible for requests for all export authorizations, including ones that will involve the transfer of classified information.
(2)
Transfers of freight
—(i)
Transportation plan (TP).
(A) A requirement to prepare a TP will be included in each arrangement that involves the international transfer of classified material as freight. The TP will:
(
1
) Describe requirements for the secure shipment of the material from the point of origin to the ultimate destination.
(
2
) Provide for security requirements in the event the transfer cannot be made promptly.
(B) The U.S. and recipient government DGRs will be identified in the TP as well as any requirement for an escort. When there are to be repetitive shipments, a notice of classified consignment will be used.
(ii)
Government agency arrangements.
Classified material to be furnished to a foreign government under such transactions normally will be shipped via government agency-arranged transportation and be transferred to the foreign government's DGR within the recipient government's territory.
(A) The government agency that executes the arrangement is responsible, in coordination with the recipient foreign government, for preparing a TP.
(B) When the point of origin is a U.S. contractor facility, the GCA will provide the contractor with a copy of the TP and the applicable letter of offer and acceptance. If a freight forwarder will be involved in processing the shipment, the GCA will provide a copy of the TP to the freight forwarder.
(C)
Commercial arrangements.
(
1
) The contractor will prepare a TP in coordination with the receiving government. This requirement applies whether the material is moved by land, sea, or air, and applies to U.S. and foreign classified contracts.
(
2
) After the CSA approves the TP, the CSA will forward it to the recipient foreign government security authorities for final coordination and approval. The CSA will notify the contractor upon the concurrence by the respective parties.
(D)
International carriers.
The international transfer of classified material will be made using only ships, aircraft, or other carriers that:
(
1
) Are owned or chartered by the USG or under U.S. registry;
(
2
) Are owned or chartered by or under the registry of the recipient government; or
(
3
) Are other than those described that are expressly authorized to perform this function in writing by the Designated Security Authority of the GCA and the security authorities of the foreign government involved. This authority cannot be delegated and this exception may be authorized only when a carrier described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(A) or (d)(2)(iv)(B) in this section is not available and an urgent operational requirement dictates use of the exception.
(E)
Escorts.
(
1
) The contractor must provide escorts for international shipments of SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL material by air.
(
2
) Escorts must have an eligibility determination and access to classified information at the classification level of the material being shipped.
(
3
) Escorts are responsible for ensuring that the classified material being shipped is safeguarded in the event of an emergency stop en route, re-routing of the aircraft, or in the event that the recipient government's representative fails to meet the shipment at its destination.
(
4
) The contractor does not have to provide escorts if:
(
i
) The classified material is shipped by the Defense Transportation System or a U.S. military carrier.
(
ii
) The recipient government DGR has signed for the receipt of the classified material within the United States.
(
iii
) The classified material is shipped via a military carrier of the recipient government or a carrier owned by or registered to the recipient government.
(
iv
) The classified material is shipped via a cleared U.S. commercial freight carrier, so long as the contractor has a written agreement from the U.S. commercial freight carrier to provide an escort who is eligible for access to classified information and has access to classified information at the classification level of the material being shipped.
(
v
) There are exceptional circumstances, and procedures have been approved by both the USG and the recipient government.
(3)
Secure communications plan.
(i) The contractor is required to meet all requirements outlined in this section, as applicable, for the secure communications plan.
(ii) The secure communications plan may be approved within a program security instruction, SSP, or a government to government agreement by the designated security authorities. A separate memorandum of understanding or memorandum of agreement is not required.
(iii) Additionally, an SSP must be authorized in accordance with § 117.18 and the CSA provided guidance.
(4)
Return of material for repair, modification, or maintenance.
(i) A foreign government or foreign contractor may return classified material to a U.S. contractor for repair, modification, or maintenance.
(ii) The approved methods of return will be specified in either the GCA sales arrangement, the security requirements section of a direct commercial sales arrangement or, in the case of material transferred as freight, in the original TP.
(iii) The contractor, on receipt of notification that classified material is to be received, will notify the applicable CSA.
(5)
Use of freight forwarders.
(i) A commercial freight forwarder may be used to arrange for the international transfer of classified material as freight.
(A) The freight forwarder must be under contract to a USG agency, U.S. contractor, or the recipient foreign government.
(B) The contract will describe the specific functions to be performed by the freight forwarder.
(C) The responsibility for security and control of the classified material that is processed by freight forwarders remains with the USG until the freight is transferred to a DGR of the recipient government.
(ii) Only freight forwarders that have a valid determination of eligibility for access to classified information and storage capability for classified material at the appropriate level are eligible to take custody or possession of classified material for delivery as freight to foreign recipients. Freight forwarders that only process unclassified paperwork and make arrangements for the delivery of classified material to foreign recipients do not require an eligibility determination for access to classified information.
(iii) A freight forwarder cannot serve as a DGR.
(6)
Hand carrying classified material.
To meet contractual requirements, the CSA may authorize contractor employees to hand carry classified material outside the United States. SECRET is the highest level of classified material to be carried and it must be of such size and weight that the courier can retain it in his or her possession at all times.
(i) The CSA will ensure that the contractor has made necessary arrangements with U.S. airport security and customs officials and that security authorities of the receiving government approve the plan. If the transfer is under a contract or a bilateral or multinational government program, the GCA will approve the request in writing. The contractor will notify the CSA of a requirement to hand carry at least 5 working days in advance of the transfer.
(ii) The courier must be a full-time employee of the dispatching or receiving contractor who has been determined eligible and has been granted access to classified information.
(iii) The employing contractor will provide the courier with a courier certificate that is consecutively numbered and valid for one journey only. The journey may include more than one stop if approved by the CSA and secure government storage has been arranged at each stop. The courier will return the courier certificate to the dispatching contractor immediately on completion of the journey.
(iv) Before commencement of each journey, the courier will read and initial the notes to the courier attached to the courier certificate and sign the courier declaration. The contractor will maintain the declaration until completion of the next CSA security review.
(v) The dispatching contractor will inventory, wrap, and seal the material in the presence of the U.S. DGR. The contractor will place the address of the receiving security office and the return address of the dispatching contractor security office on the inner envelope or wrapping and mark it with the appropriate classification. The contractor will place the address of the receiving government's DGR on the outer envelope or wrapping along with the return address of the dispatching contractor.
(vi) The dispatching contractor will prepare three copies of a receipt based on the inventory and list the classified material that is being sent. The dispatching contractor will retain one copy of the receipt. The contractor will pack the other two copies with the classified material. The contractor will obtain a receipt for the sealed package from the courier.
(vii) The dispatching contractor will provide the receiving contractor with 24 work hours advance notification of the anticipated date and time of the courier's arrival and the identity of the courier. The receiving contractor must notify the dispatching contractor if the courier does not arrive within 8 hours of the expected time of arrival. The dispatching contractor will notify its DGR of any delay, unless officially notified otherwise of a change in the courier's itinerary.
(viii) The receiving DGR will verify the contents and sign the receipts enclosed in the consignment. The receiving DGR will return one copy to the courier. On return, the courier will provide the executed receipt to the dispatching contractor.
(ix) Throughout the journey, the courier will maintain the classified material under direct personal control. The courier will not leave the material unattended at any time during the journey, in the transport being used, in hotel rooms, in cloakrooms, or other such location, and will not deposit it in hotel safes, luggage lockers, or in luggage offices. In addition, the courier will not open envelopes or packages containing the classified material en route, unless required by customs or other government officials.
(x) When inspection by government officials is unavoidable, the courier will request that the officials provide written verification that they have opened the package. The courier will notify their employing contractor as soon as possible. The contractor will notify the U.S. DGR. If the inspecting officials are not of the same country as the dispatching contractor, the CSA will notify the designated security authority in the country whose officials inspected the consignment. Under no circumstances will the courier hand over the classified material to customs or other officials for their custody.
(xi) When carrying classified material, the courier will not travel by surface routes through third countries, except as authorized by the CSA. The courier will travel only on carriers described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) in this section, and will travel direct routes between the United States and the destination.
(7)
Classified material receipts.
(i) The U.S. DGR and the DGR of the ultimate foreign recipient will maintain a continuous chain of receipts to record international transfers of all classified material from the contractor through the dispatching DGR and recipient DGR to the ultimate foreign recipient. The dispatching contractor will retain:
(A) An active suspense record until return of applicable receipts for the material.
(B) A copy of the external receipt that records the passing of custody of the package containing the classified
material and each intermediate consignee in a suspense file until the receipt that is enclosed in the package is signed and returned.
(ii) The contractor will initiate follow-up action through the CSA if the signed receipt is not returned within 45 days.
(8)
Contractor preparations for international transfers of classified material pursuant to direct commercial and foreign military sales.
To prepare for international transfers the contractor will:
(i) Identify each party to be involved in the transfer in the applicable contract or agreement and in the license application or letter request.
(ii) Notify the appropriate U.S. DGR when the material is ready.
(iii) When the classified material is also ITAR-controlled, provide documentation or written certification by an empowered official (as defined in the ITAR) to the U.S. DGR. This documentation must verify that the classified shipment is within the limitation scope of the pertinent export authorization or an authorized exemption to the export authorization requirements, or is within the limitations of the pertinent GCA contract.
(iv) Have the classified shipment ready for visual review and verification by the DGR. As a minimum this will include:
(A) Preparing the packaging materials, address labels, and receipts for review.
(B) Marking the contents with the appropriate U.S. classification or the equivalent foreign government classification, downgrading, and declassification markings, as applicable.
(C) Ensuring that shipping documents (including, as appropriate, the shipper's export declaration) include the name and contact information for the CSA that validates the license or letter authorization, and the FSO or designee for the particular transfer.
(D) Sending advance notification of the shipment to the CSA, the recipient, and to the freight forwarder, if applicable. The notification will require that the recipient confirm receipt of the shipment or provide notice to the contractor if the shipment is not received in accordance with the prescribed shipping schedule.
(9)
Transfers pursuant to an ITAR exemption.
(i) The contractor will provide to the DGR valid documentation (
i.e.,
license, export authorization, letter of offer and acceptance, or agreement) to verify the export authorization for classified technical data information or certain defense articles to be transferred under an exemption to the ITAR exemption. The documentation must include a copy of the Department of State Form DSP-83 associated with the original export authorization.
(ii) Classified technical data information or certain defense articles to be exported pursuant to ITAR exemptions will be supported by a written authorization signed by an authorized exemption official or exemption certifying official who has been appointed by the GCA's responsible disclosure authority.
(A) The contractor will provide a copy of the authorization to the CSA.
(B) The CSA will provide a copy of the authorization to the Department of State Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC).
(e)
International visits
—(1)
General.
(i) The contractor will establish procedures to monitor international visits by their employees and visits or assignments of foreign nationals to the contractor location. Doing so will ensure that the disclosure of, and access to, classified export-controlled articles related to classified information are limited to those that are approved by an export authorization.
(ii) Contractors cannot use visit authorizations to employ or otherwise acquire the services of foreign nationals that require access to export-controlled information. An export authorization is required for such situations.
(2)
International visits by U.S. contractor employees
—(i)
Types and purpose of international visits
—(A)
One-time visits.
A visit for a single, short-term occasion (normally 30 days or fewer) for a specified purpose.
(B)
Recurring visits.
Intermittent, recurring visits over a specified period of time, normally up to one year in duration, in support of a government-approved arrangement, such as an agreement, contract, or license. By agreement of the governments, the term of
the authorization may be for the duration of the arrangement, subject to annual review, and validation.
(C)
Long-term visits.
A single visit for an extended period of time, normally up to one year, in support of an agreement, contract, or license.
(D)
Emergency visits.
A visit related to a specific government-approved contract, international agreement or announced request for proposal, and failure to make the visit could be reasonably expected to seriously jeopardize performance on the contract or program, or result in the loss of a contract opportunity.
(ii)
Requests for visits.
Visit requests are necessary to make administrative arrangements and disclosure decisions and obtain security assurances.
(A) Many foreign governments require the submission of a visit request for all visits to a government facility or a cleared contractor facility, even though classified information may not be involved. They may also require that the requests be received a specified number of days in advance of the visit.
(B) The contractor can obtain information pertaining to the visit requirements of other governments and the NATO from the CSA. The contractor must obtain an export authorization if classified export controlled articles or technical data is to be disclosed or if information to be divulged is related to a classified USG program, unless the disclosure of the information is covered by other agreements, authorizations, or exemptions.
(iii)
Request format.
Contractors will request a visit request template from the CSA. The contractor will forward the visit request to the security official designated by the CSA. The host for the visit should coordinate the visit in advance with appropriate government authorities who are required to approve the visit. It is the visitor's responsibility to ensure that such coordination has occurred.
(iv)
Government agency programs.
The contractor will submit a visit request when contractor employees are to visit foreign government facilities or foreign contractors on USG orders in support of a government contract or agreement.
(v)
Requests for emergency visits.
The requester will include in the emergency visit request, and any other requirements in accordance with applicable CSA guidance:
(A) The complete name, position, address, and telephone number of the person to be visited.
(B) A knowledgeable foreign government point of contact.
(C) The identification of the contract, agreement, or program and the justification for submission of the emergency visit request.
(vi)
Requests for recurring visits.
Contractors will request recurring visit authorizations at the beginning of each program. After approval of the request, the contractor may arrange individual visits directly with the security office of the location to be visited subject to 5 working days advance notice.
(vii)
Amendments.
(A) Once visit requests have been approved or are being processed, the contractor may amend them only to change, add, or delete names and change dates.
(B) The contractor cannot amend visit requests to specify dates that are earlier than originally specified.
(C) The contractor cannot amend emergency visit authorizations.
(3)
Classified visits by foreign nationals to U.S. contractors
—(i)
Requests for classified visits.
Requests for visits by foreign nationals to U.S. contractors that will involve the disclosure of classified information may require authorization by the Department of State. Classified visits by foreign nationals must be processed by government national security authorities on behalf of the contractor through the sponsoring foreign government (normally the visitor's embassy) to the USG for approval.
(ii)
USG approval.
The USG may approve or deny the request or decline to render a decision.
(A)
USG-Approved Visits.
(
1
) USG approved classified visits cannot be used to avoid the export licensing requirements for commercial initiatives.
(
2
) When the cognizant USG agency approves a classified visit, the notification of approval will contain instructions on the level and scope of classified and unclassified information authorized for disclosure, as well as any limitations.
(
3
) Final acceptance for the visit will be subject to the concurrence of the contractor. The contractor will notify the USG agency when a classified visit is not desired.
(B)
Visit request denials.
(
1
) If the USG agency does not approve the disclosure of the information related to the proposed classified visit, it will deny the classified visit request. The USG agency will advise the requesting government and the contractor to be visited of the reason for the denial.
(
2
) The contractor may accept the visitor(s), but only information that is in the public domain may be disclosed during the classified visit.
(C)
Non-sponsorship.
The USG agency will decline to render a decision on a classified visit request that is not in support of a USG program. The USG agency will furnish a declination notice indicating that the classified visit is not USG-approved (
i.e.,
the classified visit is non-sponsored) to the requesting foreign government with an information copy to the U.S. contractor to be visited.
(
1
) A declination notice does not preclude the classified visit, provided the contractor has, or obtains, an export authorization for the information involved and, has been notified that the requesting foreign government has provided the required security assurance of the proposed visitor to the USG agency in the original classified visit request.
(
2
) It is the contractor's responsibility to consult applicable export regulations to determine licensing requirements regarding the disclosure of export-controlled information during such classified visits by foreign nationals.
(D)
Visits to subsidiaries.
A classified visit request authorization for a classified visit to any element of a corporate family may be used for visits to other divisions or subsidiaries within the same corporate family in accordance with § 117.15(h)(3), provided disclosures are for the same purpose and the information to be disclosed does not exceed the parameters of the approved classified visit request.
(E)
Long-term classified visits and assignments of foreign nationals.
Extended classified visits and assignments of foreign nationals to contractor locations can be authorized only when it is essential pursuant to a contract or government agreement (
e.g.,
joint venture, liaison representative to a joint or multinational program, and direct commercial sale). The contractor will:
(
1
) Consult with its empowered official for guidance.
(
2
) Notify the CSA in advance of all long-term classified visits and assignments of foreign nationals.
(
3
) Provide the CSA with a copy of the approved classified visit authorization or the USG export authorization.
(4)
Control of foreign visitors to U.S. contractors
—(i)
Contractor.
The contractor will:
(A) Establish procedures to ensure that foreign visitors are not afforded access to classified information except as authorized by an export license, approved visit request, or other exemption to the licensing requirements.
(B) Not inform the foreign visitor of the scope of access authorized or of the limitations imposed by the government.
(ii)
Foreign visitors.
Foreign visitors will not be given custody of classified material except when they are acting as official couriers of the government and the CSA authorizes the transfer.
(iii)
Visitor records.
The contractor will maintain a record of foreign visitors for one year when the visit involves access to classified information.
(iv)
Temporary approval of safeguarding.
(A) Classified U.S. and foreign government material at a U.S. contractor location is to remain under U.S. contractor custody and control and is subject to self-inspection and CSA security reviews.
(B) This does not preclude the contractor from furnishing a foreign visitor with a security container for the temporary storage of classified material, consistent with the purpose of the visit or assignment, provided the CSA approves and responsibility for the container and its contents remains with the U.S. contractor.
(
1
) The CSA may approve exceptions to this policy on a case-by-case basis for the storage of foreign government classified information furnished to the visitor by the visitor's government through government channels.
(
2
) The CSA must approve such exceptions in advance in writing with agreement from the visitor's government. The agreed procedures will be included in the contractor's TCP, will require the foreign nationals to provide receipts for the material, and will include an arrangement for the CSA to ensure compliance, including provisions for the CSA to inspect and inventory the material.
(v)
TCP.
A TCP is required to control access by foreign nationals assigned to, or employed by, cleared contractor facilities, and when foreign nationals visit cleared contractor facilities on a long-term or extended basis, unless the CSA determines that procedures already in place at the contractor's facility are adequate. The TCP will contain procedures to control access for all export-controlled information. A sample TCP may be obtained from the CSA.
(f)
Contractor operations abroad
—(1)
Access by contractor employees assigned outside the United States.
(i) Contractor employees assigned outside the United States, its possessions, or territories may have access to classified information in connection with performance on a specified U.S., NATO, or foreign government classified contract.
(ii) The assignment of an employee who is a non-U.S. citizen outside the United States on programs that will involve access to classified information is prohibited.
(2)
Storage, custody, and control of classified information abroad by contractor employees.
(i) The USG is responsible for the storage, custody, and control of classified information required by a U.S. contractor employee abroad. Therefore, the storage of classified information by contractor employees at any location abroad that is not under USG control is prohibited. The storage may be at a U.S. military facility, an American Embassy or consulate, or other location occupied by a USG organization.
(ii) A contractor employee may be furnished a security container to temporarily store classified material at a USG agency overseas location. The decision to permit a contractor to temporarily store classified information must be approved in writing by the senior security official for the USG host organization.
(iii) A contractor employee may be permitted to temporarily remove classified information from an overseas USG-controlled facility when necessary for the performance of a GCA contract or pursuant to an approved export authorization.
(A) The responsible USG security official at the facility will verify that the contractor has an export authorization or other written USG approval to have the material, verify the need for the material to be removed from the facility, and brief the employee on handling procedures.
(
1
) In such cases, the contractor employee will sign a receipt for the classified material.
(
2
) Arrangements will also be made with the USG custodian for the return and storage of the classified material during non-duty hours.
(B) The security office at the USG facility will report violations of this policy to the applicable CSA.
(iv) A contractor employee will not store classified information at overseas divisions or subsidiaries of U.S. entities incorporated or located in a foreign country.
(A) The divisions or subsidiaries may possess classified information that has been transferred to the applicable foreign government through government-to-government channels pursuant to an approved export authorization or other written USG authorization.
(B) Access to this classified information at such locations by a U.S. contractor employee assigned abroad by the parent facility on a visit authorization in support of a foreign government contract or subcontract, is governed by the laws and regulations of the country in which the division or subsidiary is registered or incorporated. The division or subsidiary that has obtained the information from the foreign government will provide the access.
(v) U.S. contractor employees assigned to foreign government or foreign contractor locations under a direct commercial sales arrangement will be subject to the host-nation's industrial security policies.
(3)
Transmission of classified material to employees abroad.
The transmission of
classified material to a cleared contractor employee located outside the United States will be through USG channels.
(i) If the material is to be used for other than USG purposes, an export authorization is required and a copy of the authorization, validated by the DGR, will accompany the material. The material will be addressed to a U.S. military organization or other USG organization (
e.g.,
an embassy).
(ii) USG organization abroad will be responsible for custody and control of the material.
(4)
Security briefings.
An employee being assigned outside the United States will be briefed on the security requirements of his or her assignment, including the handling, disclosure, and storage of classified information overseas.
(g)
NATO information security requirements
—(1)
General.
This section provides the security requirements needed to comply with the procedures established by the U.S. Security Authority for NATO Affairs Instruction 1-07 (available at:
http://archives.nato.int/informationobject/browse?topLod=0
query=United+States+Security+Authority+for+NATO+Affairs+Instruction+1-07
) for safeguarding NATO information provided to U.S. industry.
(2)
NATO security classification levels.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
g
)(2) NATO Security Classification Levels
NATO security classification
Classification level
COSMIC TOP SECRET
Top Secret.
NATO SECRET
Secret.
NATO CONFIDENTIAL
Confidential.
NATO RESTRICTED
1
Does not correspond to an equivalent U.S. classification.
1
Pursuant to applicable NATO security regulations and United States Security Authority, NATO Instruction 1-07, security accreditation may be delegated to contractors for information systems processing only NATO RESTRICTED information. The contractor will be responsible for executing specific provisions under contract for the accreditation of such systems, and shall provide the Contracting Authority with a written statement confirming the information system has been accredited in compliance with the minimum requirements established in the contract security clause or contract Security Aspects Letter.
(3)
ATOMAL Classification Markings.
ATOMAL is a marking applied to U.S. RESTRICTED DATA or FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA and UK Atomic information that has been released to the NATO.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
g
)(3) ATOMAL Classification Markings
ATOMAL marking
Classification level
COSMIC TOP SECRET ATOMAL
Top Secret.
NATO SECRET ATOMAL
Secret.
NATO CONFIDENTIAL ATOMAL
Confidential.
(4)
NATO contracts.
NATO contracts involving NATO-unique systems, programs, or operations are awarded by a NATO Production and Logistics Organization (NPLO), a designated NATO Management Agency, the NATO Research Staff, or a NATO Command. In the case of NATO infrastructure projects (
e.g.,
airfields, communications), the NATO contract is awarded by a contracting agency or prime contractor of the NATO nation responsible for the infrastructure project.
(5)
NATO facility security clearance certificate (FSCC).
A NATO FSCC is required for a contractor to negotiate or perform on a NATO classified contract.
(i) A U.S. entity qualifies for a NATO FSCC if it has an equivalent U.S. entity eligibility determination and its personnel have been briefed on NATO procedures.
(ii) The CSA will provide the NATO FSCC to the requesting activity.
(iii) A NATO FSCC is not required for GCA contracts involving access to NATO classified information.
(6)
Eligibility for personnel access to classified information.
Access to NATO classified information requires a final determination that an individual is eligible for access to classified information at the equivalent level.
(7)
NATO briefings.
Before having access to NATO classified information, the contractor will give employees a NATO security briefing that covers the requirements of this section and the consequences of negligent handling of NATO classified information. A representative of the CSA will give the initial briefing to the contractor. The contractor must conduct annual refresher briefings.
(i) When access to NATO classified information is no longer required, the contractor will debrief the employees. The employees will sign a certificate stating that they have been briefed or debriefed, as applicable, and acknowledge their responsibility for safeguarding NATO information.
(ii) The contractor will maintain certificates for two years for NATO SECRET and CONFIDENTIAL, and three years for COSMIC TOP SECRET and all ATOMAL information. The contractor will maintain a record of all NATO briefings and debriefings in the CSA-designated database.
(8)
Access to NATO classified information by foreign nationals.
Foreign nationals of non-NATO nations may have access to NATO classified information only with the consent of the NATO Office of Security and the contracting activity.
(i) Requests will be submitted to the Central U.S. Registry (CUSR).
(ii) Access to NATO classified information may be permitted for citizens of NATO member nations, provided a NATO security clearance certificate is provided by their government and they have been briefed.
(9)
Subcontracting for NATO contracts.
The contractor will obtain prior written approval from the NATO contracting activity and a NATO FSCC must be issued prior to awarding the subcontract. The contractor will forward the request for approval through the CSA.
(10)
Preparing and marking NATO documents.
All classified documents created by a U.S. contractor will be portion-marked. Any portion extracted from a NATO document that is not portion marked, must be assigned the classification that is assigned to the NATO document.
(i) All U.S.-originated NATO classified documents will bear an assigned reference number and date on the first page. The reference numbers will be assigned as follows:
(A) The first element will be the abbreviation for the name of the contractor.
(B) The second element will be the abbreviation for the highest classification followed by a hyphen and the 4-digit sequence number for the document within that classification that has been generated for the applicable calendar year.
(C) The third element will be the year;
e.g.,
MM/NS-0013/17.
(ii) COSMIC TOP SECRET, NATO SECRET, and ATOMAL documents will bear the reference number on each page and a copy number on the cover or first page.
(A) Copies of NATO documents will be serially numbered.
(B) Pages will be numbered.
(C) The first page, index, or table of contents will include a list, including page numbers, of all annexes and appendices.
(D) The total number of pages will be stated on the first page.
(E) All annexes or appendices will include the date of the original document and the purpose of the new text (addition or substitution) on the first page.
(iii) One of the following markings will be applied to NATO documents that contain ATOMAL information:
(A) “This document contains U.S. ATOMIC Information (RESTRICTED DATA or FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA) made available pursuant to the NATO Agreement for Cooperation Regarding ATOMIC Information, dated 18 June 1964, and will be safeguarded accordingly.”
(B) “This document contains UK ATOMIC Information. This information is released to NATO including its military and civilian agencies and member states on condition that it will not be released by the recipient organization to any other organization or government or national of another country or member of any other organization without prior permission from H.M. Government in the United Kingdom.”
(iv) Working papers will be retained only until a final product is produced and in accordance with § 117.15(e)(3).
(11)
Classification guidance.
Classification guidance will be in the form of a NATO security aspects letter and a security requirements checklist for NATO contracts, or a Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent.
(i) If adequate classification guidance is not received, the contractor will contact the CSA for assistance.
(ii) NATO classified documents and NATO information in other documents will not be declassified or downgraded without the prior written consent of the originating activity.
(iii) Recommendations concerning the declassification or downgrading of NATO classified information will be forwarded to the CUSR.
(12)
Further distribution.
The contractor will not release or disclose NATO classified information to a third party or outside the contractor's facility for any purpose without the prior written approval of the contracting agency.
(13)
Storage of NATO documents.
NATO classified documents will be stored as prescribed for U.S. documents of an equivalent classification level, except as follows:
(i) NATO classified documents will not be comingled with other documents.
(ii) Combinations for containers used to store NATO classified information will be changed annually. The combination also will be changed when an individual with access to the container departs or no longer requires access to the container, and if the combination is suspected of being compromised.
(iii) When the combination is recorded it will be marked with the highest classification level of documents stored in the container as well as to indicate the level and type of NATO documents in the container. The combination record must be logged and controlled in the same manner as NATO classified documents.
(14)
International transmission.
The NATO has a registry system for the receipt and distribution of NATO documents within each NATO member nation. The central distribution point for the United States is the CUSR now located at 9301 Chapek Road, Building 1458, Fort Belvoir, Virginia 22060.
(i) The CUSR establishes sub registries at USG organizations for further distribution and control of NATO documents. Sub registries may establish control points at contractor facilities.
(ii) COSMIC TOP SECRET, NATO SECRET, and all ATOMAL documents will be transferred through the registry system. NATO CONFIDENTIAL documents provided as part of NATO infrastructure contracts will be transmitted via government channels in compliance with paragraph (d) in this section.
(15)
Hand carrying.
NATO SECRET and NATO CONFIDENTIAL documents may be hand carried across international borders if authorized by the GCA. The courier will be issued a NATO Courier Certificate by the CSA. When hand carrying is authorized, the documents will be delivered to a U.S. organization at NATO, which will transfer them to the intended NATO recipient.
(16)
Reproduction.
Reproductions of COSMIC TOP SECRET and COSMIC TOP SECRET ATOMAL information will be performed by the responsible Registry. The reproduction of NATO SECRET and CONFIDENTIAL documents may be authorized to meet contractual requirements unless reproduction is prohibited by the contracting entity. Copies of COSMIC TOP SECRET, NATO SECRET, and ATOMAL documents will be serially numbered and controlled and accounted for in the same manner as the original.
(17)
Disposition.
(i) Generally, all NATO classified documents will be returned to the contracting activity that provided them on completion of the contract. Documents provided in connection with an invitation to bid also will be returned immediately if the bid is not accepted or submitted.
(ii) NATO classified documents may also be destroyed when permitted. COSMIC TOP SECRET and COSMIC TOP SECRET ATOMAL documents will be destroyed by the registry that provided the documents.
(A) Destruction certificates are required for all NATO classified documents except NATO CONFIDENTIAL.
(B) The destruction of COSMIC TOP SECRET, NATO SECRET, and all ATOMAL documents must be witnessed.
(18)
Accountability records.
Logs, receipts, and destruction certificates are required for NATO classified information. Records for NATO documents will be maintained separately from records of non-NATO documents (methods such as separate drawers of a container).
(i) COSMIC TOP SECRET and all ATOMAL documents will be recorded on logs maintained separately from other NATO logs and will be assigned unique serial control numbers.
(ii) Additionally, disclosure records bearing the name and signature of each person who has access are required for all COSMIC TOP SECRET, COSMIC TOP SECRET ATOMAL, and all other ATOMAL or NATO classified documents to which special access limitations have been applied.
(iii) Minimum identifying data on logs, receipts, and destruction certificates will include the NATO reference number, short title, date of the document, classification, and serial copy numbers. Logs will reflect the short title, unclassified subject, and distribution of the documents.
(iv) Receipts are required for all NATO classified documents except NATO CONFIDENTIAL.
(v) Inventories will be conducted annually of all COSMIC TOP SECRET, NATO SECRET, and ATOMAL documents.
(vi) Accountability records for ATOMAL documents will be retained for 10 years after transfer or destruction of the ATOMAL document. Destruction certificates will be retained for 10 years after destruction of the related ATOMAL documents.
(19)
Security violations and loss, compromise, or possible compromise.
The contractor will immediately report the loss, compromise, or suspected loss or compromise, as well as any other security violations involving NATO classified information to the CSA.
(20)
Extracting from NATO documents.
Permission to extract from a COSMIC TOP SECRET or ATOMAL document will be obtained from the CUSR.
(i) If extracts of NATO information are included in a U.S. document prepared for a non-NATO contract, the document will be marked with U.S. classification markings. The caveat, “THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS NATO (level of classification) INFORMATION” also will be marked on the front cover or first page of the document. Additionally, each paragraph or portion containing the NATO information will be marked with the appropriate NATO classification, abbreviated in parentheses (
e.g.,
“NS” for NATO SECRET) preceding the portion or paragraph. Declassification and downgrading instructions shall indicate that the NATO information is exempt from declassification or downgrading without the prior consent of NATO, in the absence of other originator instructions, citing the reason “Foreign Government Information.”
(ii) The declassification or downgrading of NATO information in a U.S. document requires the approval of the originating NATO activity. Requests will be submitted to the CUSR for NATO contracts, through the GCA for U.S. contracts, and through the CSA for non-NATO contracts awarded by a NATO member nation.
(21)
Release of U.S. information to NATO.
(i) Release of U.S. classified or export-controlled information to NATO requires an export authorization or other written disclosure authorization. When a document containing U.S. classified information is being prepared for NATO, the appropriate NATO classification markings will be applied to the document.
(A) Documents containing U.S. classified information and U.S. classified documents that are authorized for release to NATO will be marked on the cover or first page “THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. THE INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN AUTHORIZED FOR RELEASE TO (cite the NATO organization) BY (cite the applicable license or other written authority).”
(B) The CSA will provide transmission instructions to the contractor. The material will be addressed to a U.S. organization at NATO, which will then place the material into NATO security channels. The material will be
accompanied by a letter to the U.S. organization that provides transfer instructions and assurances that the material has been authorized for release to NATO. The inner wrapper will be addressed to the intended NATO recipient.
(C) Material to be sent to NATO via mail will be routed through the U.S. Postal Service and U.S. military postal channels to the U.S. organization that will make the transfer.
(ii) A record will be maintained that identifies the originator and source of classified information that are used in the preparation of documents for release to NATO. The record will be provided with any request for release authorization.
(22)
Visits.
NATO visits will be handled in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section. A NATO Certificate of Security Clearance will be included with the visit request.
(i)
NPLO and NATO industrial advisory group (NIAG) recurring visits.
NATO has established special procedures for recurring visits involving contractors, government departments and agencies, and NATO commands and agencies that are participating in a NPLO or NIAG contract or program. The NATO management office or agency responsible for the NPLO program will prepare a list of the government and contractor facilities participating in the program. For NIAG programs, the list will be prepared by the responsible NATO staff element. The list will be forwarded to the appropriate clearance agency of the participating nations, which will forward it to the participating contractor.
(ii)
Visitor record.
The contractor will maintain a record of NATO visits including those by U.S. personnel assigned to NATO. The records will be maintained for three years.
(h)
Security and export control violations involving foreign nationals.
Contractors will report any violation of administrative security procedures or export control regulations that would subject classified information to possible compromise by foreign visitors or foreign national employees to the applicable CSA.
(i)
Transfers of defense articles to the UK or AUS without a license or other written authorization
—(1)
Treaties with AUS and UK.
Exemptions in ITAR parts 126.16 and 126.17 implement the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the UK of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of AUS, also known as the “U.S.-UK Treaty” and “U.S.-AUS Treaty,” respectively, referred to collectively in this rule as “the Treaties.”
(i) The Treaties provide a comprehensive framework for exports and transfers to the UK or AUS of certain classified and unclassified defense articles without a license or other written authorization.
(ii) The ITAR part 126, supplement no. 1 identifies those defense articles and services that are not eligible for export via treaty exemptions.
(iii) This exemption applies to contractors registered with the DDTC and eligible to export defense articles.
(2)
Defense articles.
Defense articles fall under the scope of the Treaties when they are in support of:
(i) U.S. and UK or U.S. and AUS combined military or counter-terrorism operations.
(ii) U.S. and UK or U.S. and AUS cooperative security and defense research, development, production, and support programs.
(iii) Mutually agreed specific security and defense projects where the government of the UK or AUS is the end-user.
(iv) USG end-use.
(3)
Marking requirements.
Contractors are required to mark defense articles that fall under the scope of the treaty prior to transferring from the U.S. to the UK in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. All other standard classification marking in accordance with § 117.14 also apply. When defense articles are returned from the UK or AUS to the United States, any defense articles marked as RESTRICTED in the manner shown in Table 4 purely for the purposes of the
treaties will be considered to be unclassified and such marking will be removed.
Table 3 to Paragraph (
i
)(3) Classified U.S. Defense Article Markings
UNCLASSIFIED: CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS FOR ILLUSTRATION PURPOSES ONLY
Treaty with:
Marking
Example
(for SECRET classified defense articles)
Government of UK
//CLASSIFICATION LEVEL USML/REL GBR AND USA TREATY COMMUNITY//
//SECRET USML//REL GBR AND USA TREATY COMMUNITY//”
Government of AUS
//CLASSIFICATION LEVEL USML/REL AUS AND USA TREATY COMMUNITY//
//SECRET USML//REL AUS AND USA TREATY COMMUNITY//”
Table 4 to Paragraph (
i
)(3) Unclassified U.S. Defense Article Markings
UNCLASSIFIED: CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS FOR ILLUSTRATION PURPOSES ONLY
Treaty with:
Marking
Government of UK
//RESTRICTED-USML//REL GBR AND USA TREATY COMMUNITY//
Government of AUS
//RESTRICTED-USML//REL AUS AND USA TREATY COMMUNITY//
(4)
Notice.
A notice will be included (
e.g.,
as part of the bill of lading) whenever defense articles are exported in accordance with the provisions of these treaties and the ITAR.
Table 5 to Paragraph (
i
)(4) Notice Text for Exported Defense Articles
Notice text
These U.S. Munitions List commodities are authorized by the U.S. Government under the U.S. [AUS or UK, as applicable] Defense Trade Cooperation Treaty for export only to [AUS or UK, as applicable] for use in approved projects, programs or operations by members of the [AUS or UK, as applicable] Community. They may not be retransferred or re-exported or used outside of an approve project, program, or operation, either in their original form or after being incorporated into other end-items, without the prior written approval of the U.S. Department of State.
(5)
Labeling.
(i) Defense articles (other than technical data) will be individually labeled with the appropriate identification; or, where such labeling is impracticable (
e.g.,
propellants, chemicals), will be accompanied by documentation (such as contracts or invoices) clearly associating the defense articles with the appropriate markings.
(ii) Technical data (including data packages, technical papers, manuals, presentations, specifications, guides and reports), regardless of media or means of transmission (
i.e.,
physical, oral, or electronic), will be individually labeled with the appropriate identification detailed. Where such labeling is impracticable, the data will be accompanied by documentation (such as contracts or invoices) or oral notification clearly associating the technical data with the appropriate markings.
(iii) Defense services will be accompanied by documentation (
e.g.
contracts, invoices, shipping bills, or bills of lading clearly labeled with the appropriate identification).
(6)
Transfers.
(i) All defense articles that fall under the scope of the Treaties must be transferred from the U.S. point of embarkation through channels approved by both the United States and the UK or the United States and AUS, as applicable.
(ii) For transfers of defense articles as freight, the contractor will prepare a transportation plan. For transfer of classified U.S. defense articles, a freight forwarder must have a valid entity eligibility determination and a
classified information storage capability at the appropriate level. For unclassified U.S. defense articles transferred as freight, a freight forwarder is not required to be cleared.
(7)
Records.
Contractors will maintain records of exports, transfers, re-exports, or re-transfers of defense articles subject to the Treaties for a minimum of five years. The contractor will make records available to the CSA upon request. In accordance with the ITAR parts 126.16 and 126.17 the records will contain:
(i) Port of entry or exit.
(ii) Date and time of export or import.
(iii) Method of export or import.
(iv) Commodity code and description of the commodity, including technical data.
(v) Value of export.
(vi) Justification for export under the Treaties.
(vii) End-user or end-use.
(viii) Identification of all U.S. and foreign parties to the transaction.
(ix) How export was marked.
(x) Security classification of the export.
(xi) All written correspondence with the USG on the export.
(xii) All information relating to political contributions, fees, or commissions furnished or obtained, offered, solicited, or agreed upon, as outlined in the ITAR parts 126.16(m) or 126.17(m).
(xiii) Purchase order, contract, or letter of intent.
(xiv) Technical data actually exported.
(xv) The internal transaction number for the electronic export information filing in the automated export system.
(xvi) All shipping documentation (including, but not limited to, the airway bill, bill of lading, packing list, delivery verification, and invoice).
(xvii) Statement of registration (Department of State Form DS-2032 (available at:
https://www.pmddtc.state.gov/sys_attachment.do?sysparm_referring_url=tear_off
view=true
sys_id=dabc05f6db6be344529d368d7c961984
)).
§ 117.20
Critical Nuclear Weapon Design Information (CNWDI).
(a)
General.
This section contains the special requirements for protection of CNDWI. The sensitivity of DoD CNWDI is such that access shall be granted to the absolute minimum number of employees who require it for the accomplishment of assigned responsibilities on a classified contract. Because of the importance of such information, special requirements have been established for its control. DoDI 5210.02, “Access to and Dissemination of Restricted Data and Formerly Restricted Data” (available at:
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/521002p.pdf?ver=2019-01-14-072742-700
) establishes these controls in the DoD.
(b)
Briefings.
Prior to having access to CNWDI, employees will be briefed on its sensitivity by the FSO or his or her alternate. The FSO will be initially briefed by a USG representative.
(1) The briefing will include:
(i) The definition of CNWDI.
(ii) A reminder of the extreme sensitivity of the information.
(iii) An explanation of the individual's continuing responsibility for properly safeguarding CNWDI and for ensuring that dissemination is strictly limited to other personnel who have been authorized for access and have a need-to-know for the particular information.
(2) The briefing will also be tailored to cover any special local requirements. Upon termination of access to CNWDI, the employee will be given an oral debriefing.
(c)
Markings.
In addition to any other required markings, CNWDI material will be clearly marked in accordance with DoDI 5210.02. At a minimum, CNWDI documents will show such markings on the cover or first page. Portions of documents that contain CNWDI will be marked with an (N) or (CNWDI) following the classification of the portion; for example, TS (RD)(N) or TS(RD)(CNWDI).
(d)
Subcontractors.
Contractors will not disclose CNWDI to subcontractors without the prior written approval of the GCA. This approval may be included in a contract security classification specification, or equivalent, other contract-related document, or by separate correspondence.
(e)
Transmission outside the facility.
Transmission of CNWDI outside the
contractor's facility is authorized only to the GCA, or to a subcontractor as described in paragraph (d) of this section. Any other transmission must be approved by the GCA.
(1) Prior to transmission to another cleared facility, the contractor will verify from the CSA that the facility has been authorized access to CNWDI. When CNWDI is transmitted to another facility, the inner wrapping will be addressed to the personal attention of the FSO or his or her alternate, and in addition to any other prescribed markings, the inner wrapping will be marked: “Critical Nuclear Weapon Design Information-DoD Instruction 5210.02 Applies.”
(2) The same marking will be used on the inner wrapping of transmissions addressed to the GCA or other USG.
(f)
Records.
Contractors will annotate CNWDI access in the CSA-designated database for all employees who have been authorized access to CNWDI.
(g)
Nuclear weapon data.
Some nuclear weapon data is divided into Sigma categories, the protection of which is prescribed by DOE Order 452.8 (available at:
https://www.directives.doe.gov/directives-documents/400-series/0452.8-border/@@images/file
). However, certain nuclear weapon data has been re-categorized as CNWDI and is protected as described in this section.
§ 117.21
COMSEC.
(a)
General.
The procedures in this section pertaining to classified COMSEC information will apply to contractors when the contractor:
(1) Requires the use of COMSEC systems in the performance of a contract.
(2) Is required to install, maintain, or operate COMSEC equipment for the USG.
(3) Is required to accomplish research, development, or production of COMSEC systems, COMSEC equipment, or related COMSEC material.
(b)
Instructions.
Specific requirements for the management and safeguarding of COMSEC material in industry are established in the COMSEC material control and operating procedures provided to the account manager of each industrial COMSEC account by the agency central office of record (COR) responsible for establishing the account. Such procedures that are above the baseline requirements detailed in the other sections of this rule will be contractually mandated.
(c)
Clearance and access requirements.
(1) Before a COMSEC account can be established and a contractor may receive or possess COMSEC material accountable to a COR, individuals occupying the positions of FSO, COMSEC account manager, and alternate COMSEC account manager must have a final PCL appropriate for the material to be held in the account.
(i) COMSEC account managers and alternate COMSEC account managers having access to operational TOP SECRET keying material marked as CRYPTO must have a final TOP SECRET security clearance based upon a current investigation of a scope that meets or exceeds that necessary for the access required.
(ii) This requirement does not apply to contractors using only data transfer devices and seed key.
(2) Before disclosure of COMSEC information to a contractor, GCAs must first verify with the CSA that appropriate COMSEC procedures are in place at the contractor facility. If procedures are not in place, the GCA will provide a written request and justification to the CSA to establish COMSEC procedures and a COMSEC account, if appropriate, at the facility and to conduct the initial COMSEC or cryptographic access briefings for the FSO and COMSEC account personnel.
(3) Access to COMSEC information by a contractor requires a final entity eligibility determination and a USG-issued final PCL at the appropriate level; however, an Interim TOP SECRET entity eligibility determination or PCL is valid for access to COMSEC at the SECRET and CONFIDENTIAL levels.
(4) If a COMSEC account will be required, the Contract Security Classification Specification, or equivalent, will contain a statement regarding the establishment of a COMSEC account as appropriate.
(d)
Establishing a COMSEC account.
(1) When COMSEC material that is accountable to a COR is to be provided, acquired, or produced under a contract,
the contracting officer will inform the contractor that a COMSEC account must be established. The contractor will forward the names of U.S. citizen employees who will serve as the COMSEC account manager and alternate COMSEC account manager to the CSA. The CSA will forward the names of the FSO, COMSEC account manager, and alternate COMSEC account manager, along with a contractual requirement for the establishment of a COMSEC account (using DD Form 254 or equivalent) to the appropriate COR, with a copy to the GCA, indicating that the persons have been cleared and COMSEC has been briefed.
(2) The COR will then establish the COMSEC account and notify the CSA that the account has been established.
(3) An individual may be appointed as the COMSEC account manager or alternate COMSEC account manager for more than one account only when approved by each COR concerned.
(e)
COMSEC briefing and debriefing.
(1) All contractor employees who require access to classified COMSEC information in the performance of their duties will be briefed before access is granted. Depending on the nature of COMSEC access required, either a COMSEC briefing or a cryptographic access briefing will be given. The FSO, the COMSEC account manager, and the alternate COMSEC account manager will be briefed by a USG representative or their designee. Other contractor employees will be briefed by the FSO, the COMSEC account personnel, or other individual designated by the FSO. The purpose of the briefing is to ensure that the contractor understands:
(i) The unique nature of COMSEC information and its unusual sensitivity.
(ii) The special security requirements for the handling and protection of COMSEC information.
(iii) The penalties prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 793, 794, and 798 for disclosure of COMSEC information.
(2) COMSEC debriefings are not required.
(3) The contractor will maintain a record of all COMSEC briefings as specified by the appropriate COR.
(f)
U.S. classified cryptographic information access briefing and debriefing requirements.
(1) U.S. classified cryptographic information does not include seed key or controlled cryptographic items.
(2) A contractor's employee may be granted access to U.S. classified cryptographic information only if the employee:
(i) Is a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Has a final USG-issued eligibility determination appropriate to the classification of the U.S. cryptographic information to be accessed.
(iii) Has a valid need-to-know to perform duties for, or on behalf of, the USG.
(iv) Receives a security briefing appropriate to the U.S. Classified Cryptographic Information to be accessed.
(v) Acknowledges the granting of access to classified information by executing Section I of Secretary of Defense (SD) Form 572, “Cryptographic Access Certification and Termination” (available at:
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/forms/sd/sd0572.pdf
).
(vi) Where so directed by a USG department or agency head, acknowledges the possibility of being subject to a CI scope polygraph examination that will be administered in accordance with department or agency directives and applicable law.
(3) An employee granted access to cryptographic information will be debriefed and execute Section II of the SD 572 not later than 90 days from the date access is no longer required.
(4) The contractor will maintain the SD 572 for a minimum of five years following the debriefing.
(5) Cryptographic access briefings must fully meet the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.
(g)
Destruction and disposition of COMSEC material.
The appropriate GCA representative,
e.g.,
the contracting officer representative, will provide directions to the contractor when accountable COMSEC material is to be destroyed. These directions may be provided in superseding editions of publications or by specific instructions.
(h)
Subcontracting COMSEC work.
Subcontracts requiring the disclosure of classified COMSEC information will be awarded only upon the written approval of the GCA.
(i)
Unsolicited proposals.
Any unsolicited proposal for a COMSEC system, equipment, development, or study that may be submitted by a contractor to a USG agency will be forwarded to the Deputy National Manager for National Security Systems for review and follow up action at: Deputy National Manager for National Security Systems, NSA, Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755-6000.
§ 117.22
DHS CCIPP.
(a)
General.
DHS will coordinate with other USG agencies that have an equity with a private sector entity and the CCIPP in accordance with § 117.6(f).
(b)
Authority.
(1) The Secretary of Homeland Security has the authority to determine the eligibility for personnel security clearances and to administer the sharing of relevant classified NSI with certain private sectors or non-federal partners for the purpose of furthering cybersecurity information sharing among critical infrastructure partners pursuant to E.O. 13691.
(2) DHS provides security oversight and assumes security responsibilities similar to those of an FSO, unless otherwise provided in this section. Participating entities will cooperate with DHS security officials to ensure the entity is in compliance with requirements in this rule.
§ 117.23
Supplement to this rule: Security Requirements for Alternative Compensatory Control Measures (ACCM), Special Access Programs (SAPs), Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), Restricted Data (RD), Formerly Restricted Data (FRD), Transclassified Foreign Nuclear Information (TFNI), and Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI).
(a)
General.
Given the sensitive nature of Alternative Compensatory Control Measures (ACCM), SAPs, SCI, RD, FRD, TFNI, and NNPI, the security requirements prescribed in this section exceed baseline standards for this rule and must be applied, as applicable, through specific contract requirements.
(1)
Compliance.
The contractor will comply with the security measures reflected in this section and other documents specifically referenced, when applied by the GCA or designee as part of a contract. Acceptance of the contract security measures is a prerequisite to any negotiations leading to program participation and an area accreditation (
e.g.,
an SCI facility or SAP facility accreditation).
(2)
CSA-imposed higher standards.
In some cases, security or sensitive factors of a CSA-created program may require security measures that exceed the standards of this section. In such cases, the CSA-imposed higher standards specifically detailed in the contract or conveyed through other applicable directives will be binding on USG and contractor participants. In cases of doubt over the specific provisions, the contractor should consult the program security officer and the contracting officer before taking any action or expending program-related funds. In cases of extreme emergencies requiring immediate attention, the action taken should protect the USG's interest and the security of the program from loss or compromise.
(3)
Waivers.
Every effort will be made to avoid waivers to established standards unless they are in the best interest of the USG. In those cases where waivers are deemed necessary, a request will be submitted in accordance with the procedures established by the CSA.
(b)
Intelligence information.
National intelligence is under the jurisdiction and control of the DNI, who establishes security policy for the protection of national intelligence and intelligence sources, methods, and activities. In addition to the guidance in this rule, contractors will follow Intelligence Community directives, policy guidance, standards, and specifications for the protection of classified national intelligence and SCI.
(c)
ACCM.
Contractors may participate in ACCMs, or be directed to participate, only when such access and the associated security plan are identified in DD Form 254 or equivalent. Care must be taken to ensure identification of the security plan does not disclose ACCM-protected data.
(1)
ACCM contracts.
DoD contractors will implement the security requirements for ACCMs, when established by contract, in accordance with applicable
statutes, E.O.s, CSA directives, instructions, manuals, regulations, standards, and memorandums.
(2)
Non-DoD with ACCMs.
Contractors performing on ACCM contracts issued by other than DoD GCAs will implement ACCM protection requirements imposed in their contracts.
(d)
SAPs
—(1)
DoD SAP contracts.
Contractors will implement the security requirements for SAPs codified in SAP-related policy, when established by contract. These documents include, but are not limited to, statutes, E.O.s, CSA directives, instructions, manuals, regulations, standards, memorandums, and other SAP security related policy documents.
(2)
Non-DoD SAPs.
Contractors performing on SAP contracts issued by non-DoD GCAs will implement SAP protection requirements imposed in their contracts. These requirements may be from, but are not limited to, statutes, E.O.s, CSA directives, instructions, manuals, regulations, standards, memorandums, and other SAP security related policy documents.
(e)
RD, FRD, and TFNI
—(1)
General.
This section describes some of the requirements for nuclear-related information designated RD, FRD, or TFNI in accordance with the AEA and 10 CFR part 1045. 10 CFR part 1045 contains the full requirements for classification and declassification of RD, FRD, and TFNI. Information on safeguarding of RD by access permittees is contained in 10 CFR part 1016. For RD that is NNPI, the additional provisions of paragraph (f) of this section apply.
(i) The DOE is the sole authority for establishing requirements for classifying, accessing, handling, securing, and protecting RD. The DOE and the DoD share authority for the requirements for FRD. The DOE and ODNI share authority for establishing requirements for TFNI.
(ii) RD, FRD, and TFNI categories are distinguished from the NSI category, which is governed in accordance with E.O. 13526.
(A) RD, FRD, and TFNI have unique marking requirements and are not subject to automatic declassification. In addition, RD and FRD have special restrictions regarding foreign release.
(B) It is necessary to differentiate between the handling of this information and NSI because of its direct relationship to our nation's nuclear deterrent.
(iii) Some access requirements for RD and FRD exceed the requirements for NSI. Due to the unique national security implications of RD and FRD, and to facilitate maintaining consistency of codified requirement, they are not repeated in the baseline of this rule, but may be applied through specific contract requirements.
(iv) When RD is transclassified as TFNI, it is safeguarded as NSI. Such information will be labeled as TFNI. The label TFNI will be included on documents to indicate it is exempt from automatic declassification as specified in 10 CFR part 1045, the AEA, E.O. 13526, and 32 CFR part 2001.
(2)
Unauthorized disclosures.
Contractors will report all unauthorized disclosures involving RD, FRD and TFNI information to the CSA.
(3)
International requirements.
The AEA provides for a program of international cooperation to promote common defense and security and to make available to cooperating nations the benefits of peaceful applications of atomic energy as widely as expanding technology and considerations of the common defense and security will permit.
(i) Information controlled in accordance with the AEA, RD, and FRD may be shared with another nation only under the terms of an agreement for cooperation. The disclosure by a contractor of RD and FRD will not be permitted until an agreement is signed by the United States and participating governments, and disclosure guidance and security arrangements are established.
(ii) RD and FRD will not be transmitted to a foreign national or regional defense organization unless such action is approved and undertaken under an agreement for cooperation between the United States and the cooperating entity and supporting statutory determinations, as prescribed in the AEA.
(4)
Personnel security clearance and access.
Only the DOE, the NRC, the DoD, and the National Aeronautics and Space Agency can grant access to RD
and FRD that is under their cognizance. Access to RD and FRD must be granted in accordance with the AEA. Baseline requirements for access to RD and FRD are codified in specific DoD, DOE, NRC, and the National Aeronautics and Space Agency directives and regulations. In addition, need-to-know and other restrictions on access apply.
(5)
Classification and declassification.
(i) All persons with access to RD and FRD must receive initial and periodic refresher training as required under § 1045.120 10 CFR. The training must include the following information:
(A) What information is potentially RD and FRD.
(B) Matter that potentially contains RD or FRD must be reviewed by an RD derivative classifier to determine whether it is RD or FRD.
(C) The DOE must review matter that potentially contains RD or TFNI for public release and DOE or DoD must review matter that potentially contains FRD for public release.
(D) RD derivative classification authority is required to classify or upgrade matter containing RD or FRD, or to downgrade the level of matter containing RD or FRD.
(E) Only a person trained in accordance with § 1045.120 10 CFR may classify matter containing TFNI.
(F) Matter containing RD, FRD, and TFNI is not automatically declassified and only DOE-authorized persons may downgrade the category or declassify matter marked as containing RD. Only DOE or DoD authorized persons may downgrade the category or declassify matter marked as containing FRD.
(G) How to submit a challenge if they believe RD, FRD, or TFNI information (
e.g.,
a guide topic) or matter containing RD, FRD, or TFNI is not properly classified.
(H) Access requirements for matter marked as containing RD or FRD.
(ii) All persons with access to TFNI must receive initial and periodic refresher training as required under § 1045.120 10 CFR. This training may be combined with the training for access to RD and FRD. The training must include the following information:
(A) What information is potentially TFNI.
(B) Only a person with appropriate training may determine if matter contains TFNI.
(C) Marking requirements for matter containing TFNI.
(D) Matter containing TFNI is not automatically declassified and only DOE authorized persons may downgrade the category or declassify matter marked as containing TFNI.
(E) How to submit a challenge if they believe TFNI information (
e.g.,
a guide topic) or matter containing TFNI is not properly classified.
(iii) Persons with access to RD, FRD, or TFNI must submit matter that potentially contains RD or FRD to an RD derivative classifier for review. If matter potentially contains TFNI, it must be submitted to a person trained to make TFNI determinations. Matter potentially containing RD, FRD, or TFNI must be reviewed, even if the potential RD, FRD, or TFNI is derived from the open literature. Prior to review, the matter must be marked as a working paper under 10 CFR 1045.140(c). If the matter is intended for pubic release and potentially contains RD or TFNI, it must be submitted to the DOE for review. If the matter is intended for public release and contains FRD, it must be submitted to the DOE or the DoD.
(iv) Only RD derivative classifiers may classify matter containing RD or FRD. RD derivative classifiers must receive initial training and refresher training every two years as required under 10 CFR 1045.120. The training must include the content for persons with access to RD and FRD, along with the following:
(A) The use of classification guides, classification bulletins, and portion-marked source documents to classify matter containing RD and FRD.
(B) What to do if applicable classification guidance is not available.
(C) Limitations on an RD derivative classifier's authority to remove RD or FRD portions from matter.
(D) Marking requirements for matter containing RD and FRD.
(v) Only persons with appropriate training may review matter to determine if it contains TFNI. Training must be completed prior to making determinations and every two years after. The training must include the
content for persons with access to TFNI and the following:
(A) The markings applied to matter containing TFNI.
(B) Limitations on their authority to remove TFNI portions from matter.
(C) Only DOE authorized persons may determine that classified matter no longer contains TFNI.
(D) Only DOE-authorized persons may declassify matter marked as containing TFNI.
(E) The DOE must review matter that potentially contains TFNI for public release.
(vi) RD derivative classifiers must use approved classification guides, classification bulletins, or portion-marked source documents as the basis for classifying matter containing RD and FRD.
(vii) Persons trained to make TFNI determinations must use approved TFNI guidelines, classification guides, classification bulletins, or portion-marked source documents as the basis for classifying or upgrade matter containing TFNI.
(6)
Marking matter containing RD, FRD, and TFNI.
The front page of matter containing RD or FRD must have the highest classification level of the information on the top and bottom of the first page, the RD or FRD admonishment, the subject or title marking, and the classification authority block. Matter containing TFNI must include the TFNI identifier on each page unless the matter also contains RD or FRD, in which case the RD or FRD takes precedence.
(i) Documents classified as RD or FRD must also include a Classification Authority Block with the RD derivative classifier's name and position, title, or unique identifier and the classification guide or source document (by title and date) used to classify the document. No declassification date or event may be placed on a document containing RD, FRD, or TFNI. If a document containing RD, FRD, or TFNI also contains NSI, “N/A to RD/FRD/TFNI” (as appropriate) must be placed on the “Declassify On:” line.
(ii) Each interior page of matter containing RD or FRD must be clearly marked at the top and bottom with the overall classification level and category of the matter or the overall classification level and category of the page, whichever is preferred. The abbreviations “RD” or “FRD” may be used in conjunction with the matter classification (
e.g.,
SECRET//RD, CONFIDENTIAL//FRD).
Table 1 to Paragraph (
e
)(6)(
ii
) RD and FRD Admonishment Markings
Document
containing
Admonishment that must be included on the
front page of the document
RD
“RESTRICTED DATA
This document contains RESTRICTED DATA as defined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. Unauthorized disclosure is subject to administrative and criminal sanctions.”
FRD
“FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA
Unauthorized disclosure subject to administrative and criminal sanctions. Handle as Restricted Data in foreign dissemination. Section 144b, AEA 1954.”
(iii) Documents classified as RD or FRD must also include a Classification Authority Block with the RD derivative classifier's name and position, title, or unique identifier and the classification guide or source document (by title and date) used to classify the document.
(iv) Other than the required subject or title markings, portion marking is permitted, but not required, for matter containing RD or FRD. Each agency that generates matter containing RD or FRD determines the policy for portion-marking matter generated within the agency. If matter containing RD or FRD is portion-marked, each portion containing RD or FRD must be marked with the level and category of the information in the portion (
e.g.,
SRD, CFRD, S//RD, C//FRD).
(v) Additional information and requirements are in 10 CFR 1045.140. Requests for additional information about the classification and declassification of RD, FRD, and TFNI can be directed to Agency RD Management Officials or the DOE Office of Classification at
outreach@hq.doe.gov
or at (301) 903-7567.
(7)
Declassification.
(i) No date or event for automatic declassification ever applies to RD, FRD, or TFNI documents, even if they contain classified NSI. RD, FRD, or TFNI documents remain classified until a positive action
by a designated DOE official (for RD, FRD, or TFNI) or an appropriate DoD official (for FRD) is taken to declassify them.
(ii) RD derivative classifiers may remove RD or FRD from portion-marked source matter if the resulting matter is not for public release. RD derivative classifiers cannot declassify matter marked as containing RD, FRD, and TFNI. Matter that potentially contains RD or TFNI must be sent to designated individuals in the DOE and those containing FRD must be sent to designated individuals in the DoD for declassification or removal of the RD, FRD, or TFNI prior to public release.
(iii) Matter containing TFNI is excluded from the automatic declassification provisions of E.O. 13526 until the TFNI designation is properly removed by the DOE. When the DOE determines that a TFNI designation may be removed, any remaining classified information must be referred to the appropriate agency.
(iv) Any matter marked as or that potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI within a document intended for public release that contains RD or FRD subject area indicators must be reviewed by the appropriate DOE organization.
(8)
Challenges to RD, FRD, and TFNI.
A contractor employee who believes RD, FRD, or TFNI is classified improperly or unnecessarily may challenge that classification following the procedures established by the GCA. They may also send challenges directly to the Director, Office of Classification, AU-60/Germantown Building; U.S. Department of Energy; 1000 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20585, at any time. Under no circumstance is an employee subject to retribution for challenging the classification status of RD, FRD, or TFNI.
(9)
Commingling.
Commingling of RD, FRD, and TFNI with NSI in the same document should be avoided to the greatest degree possible. When mixing this information cannot be avoided, the marking requirements in 10 CFR part 1045, section 140(f) and declassification requirements of 10 CFR part 1045, section 155 apply.
(10)
Protection of RD and FRD.
Most of the protection requirements for RD and FRD are similar to NSI and are based on the classification level. However, there are some protection requirements for certain RD information that may be applied through specific contract requirements by the GCA. These range from distribution limitations through the limitation of access to specifically authorized individuals to specific storage requirements, including the requirement for IDSs, and additional accountability records.
(i) Any DOE contractor that violates a classified information security requirement may be subject to a civil penalty under the provisions of 10 CFR part 824.
(ii) Certification is required for individuals authorized access to specific Sigma categories, as appropriate. Address questions regarding these requirements to
DOE's National Nuclear Security Administration, Office of Defense Programs.
(iii) Storage and distribution requirements are determined by the classification level, category, and Sigma category. Sigma designation is not a requirement for all RD documents. Storage and distribution requirements will be dependent only on classification level and category.
(11)
Accountability.
In addition to TOP SECRET information, some SECRET RD information is considered accountable (
e.g.,
specific Sigma 14 matter). Each nuclear weapon data control point will keep a record of transactions involving Secret nuclear weapon data documents under its jurisdiction including origination, receipt, transmission, current custodian, reproduction, change of classification, declassification, and destruction.
(12)
Cybersecurity.
Classified databases, systems, and networks containing RD and FRD are protected under the requirements developed and distributed by the DOE Office of the Chief Information Officer.
(f)
NNPI.
NNPI is information associated with the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program and is governed by Office of the Chief of Naval Operations Instruction (OPNAVINST) N9210.3, “Safeguarding of Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information” (available at:
https://www.secnav.navy.mil/doni/Directives/09000%20General%20Ship%20Design%20and%20Support/
09-200%20Propulsion%20Plants%20Support/N9210.3%20(Unclas%20Portion).pdf
). Naval Reactors, a joint DOE/Department of Navy organization established under 50 U.S.C. 2406 and 2511, is responsible for the protection of this information. All contracts which grant access to NNPI must require compliance with the specific safeguarding requirements contained in OPNAVINST N9210.3. All waivers or deviations involving security requirements protecting NNPI require Naval Reactors' concurrence. Classified NNPI may not be processed on any contractor information system unless approved by the cognizant authorizing authority with concurrence from Naval Reactors.
§ 117.24
Cognizant Security Office information.
(a)
DoD.
Refer to the DCSA website (
https://www.dcsa.mil
) for a listing of office locations and areas of responsibility and for information on verification of facility clearances and safeguarding. In those cases where the cleared facility is located on a DoD installation the applicable DCSA field office can advise if the installation commander is providing security oversight.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
) DoD Cognizant Security Office
Designation
Office name
Mailing address
Telephone No.
Headquarters, CSO
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
27130 Telegraph Rd., Quantico, VA 22134
(888) 282-7682
(b)
DOE.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
) DOE Cognizant Security Offices
Designation
Office name
Mailing address
Telephone No.
Headquarters
Headquarters Office of Security Operations (AU-40)
19901 Germantown Road, Germantown, MD 20874
(301) 903-2177
CSO, Clearance Agency, Central Verification Activity, Adjudicative Authority, and PCL and FCL databases
DOE/National Nuclear Security Administration Office of Personnel and Facility Clearances and Classifications
Pennsylvania
H Street, Kirtland Air Force Base, Albuquerque, NM 87116
(505) 845-4154
CSO
U.S. Department of Energy, Idaho Operations Office
850 Energy Drive, Idaho Falls, ID 83401
(208) 526-2216
Table 3 to Paragraph (
b
) DOE Cognizant Security Offices Continued
Designation
Office name
Mailing address
Telephone No.
CSO, Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information
Director, Naval Reactors
NA-30, 1240 Isaac Hull Ave., SE., Washington Navy Yard, DC 20376
(202) 781-6297
CSO
U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science Consolidated Service Center
200 Administration Road, P.O. Box 2001, Oak Ridge, TN 37830
(865) 576-2140
CSO
U.S. Department of Energy, Pacific Northwest Site Office
902 Battelle Boulevard, Richland, WA 99354
(888) 375-7665
CSO
U.S. Department of Energy, Richland Operations Office
825 Jadwin Avenue, P.O. Box 550, Richland, WA 99352
(509) 376-7411
CSO
U.S. Department of Energy, Savannah River Operations Office
Road 1A, Aiken, SC 29801
(803) 725-6211
(c)
NRC.
Table 4 to Paragraph (
c
) NRC Cognizant Security Offices
Designation
Mailing address
Telephone No.
CSO, Adjudicative Authority, PCL and FCL databases, and Industrial Security Program
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Director of Facilities and Security, Washington, DC 20555
(301) 415-8080
CSO, FCL Database and Industrial Security Program for Licensees
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Information Security Branch, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20853
(301) 415-7048
Clearance Agency
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Director of Facilities and Security Personnel Security, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20853
(301) 415-8080
Central Verification Agency
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Director of Security Facilities Security, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20853
(301) 415-8080
(d)
DHS.
Table 6 to Paragraph (
d
) DHS Cognizant Security Office
Designation
Mailing address
Telephone No.
CSO
DHS Cognizant Security Office, ATTN: Chief Security Officer, 245 Murray Lane, M/S 0120-3, Washington, DC 20528
(202) 447-5424;
(202) 447-5345
Pt. 142

# PART 142—COPYRIGHTED SOUND AND VIDEO RECORDINGS
Sec.
142.1
Purpose.
142.2
Applicability.
142.3
Policy.
142.4
Procedures.
142.5
Responsibilities.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 133.

# Source:
49 FR 49452, Dec. 20, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 142.1
Purpose.
This part provides policy, prescribes procedures, and assigned responsibilities regarding the use of copyrighted sound and video recordings within the Department of Defense.
§ 142.2
Applicability.
(a) The provisions of this part apply to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Unified and Specified commands, and the Defense Agencies (hereafter referred to collectively as “DoD Components”).
(b) This part does not regulate the procurement or use of copyrighted works for authorized official purposes.
§ 142.3
Policy.
(a) It is DoD policy: (1) To recognize the rights to copyright owners by establishing specific guidelines for the use of copyrighted works by individuals within the DoD community, consistent with the Department's unique mission and worldwide commitments, and (2) Not to condone, facilitate, or permit unlicensed public performance or unlawful reproduction for private or personal use of copyrighted sound or video recordings, using government appropriated or nonappropriated-fund-owned or leased equipment or facilities.
(b) Although the policy expressed in this Directive takes into account the copyright law of the United States, the application of that law to specific situations is a matter for interpretation by the U.S. Copyright Office and the Department of Justice.
§ 142.4
Procedures.
(a) Permission or licenses from copyright owners shall be obtained for public performance of copyrighted sound and video recordings.
(b) Component procedures established pursuant to § 142.5, below provide guidance for determining whether a performance is “public.” These general principles will be observed:
(1) A performance in a residential facility or a physical extension thereof is not considered a public performance.
(2) A performance in an isolated area or deployed unit is not considered a public performance.
(3) Any performance at which admission is charged normally would be considered a public performance.
(c) Government audio and video duplicating equipment and appropriated funded playback equipment may not be used for reproduction of copyrighted sound or video recordings.
§ 142.5
Responsibilities.
Heads of DoD Components shall establish procedures to comply with this Directive and shall provide necessary local guidance and legal interpretation.
Pt. 145

# PART 145—COOPERATION WITH THE OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL OF THE MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
Sec.
145.1
Purpose.
145.2
Applicability and scope.
145.3
Definitions.
145.4
Policy.
145.5
Responsibilities.
145.6
Procedures.
Appendix to Part 145—Legal Representation

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 10 U.S.C. 133.

# Source:
51 FR 17178, May 9, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 145.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for cooperation with the Office of Special Counsel (OSC) of the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) in fulfilling the responsibilities of the Special Counsel under Pub. L. 95-454 and 5 CFR 1201 and 1250 to conduct investigations of alleged prohibited personnel practices and to ensure the investigation of other allegations of improper or illegal conduct referred to the Department of Defense by the OSC. This part provides internal guidance to DoD officials, and does not establish an independent basis for any person or organization to assert a right, benefit, or privilege.
§ 145.2
Applicability and scope.
(a) This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (OJCS), the Inspector General, Department of Defense (IG, DoD) and the Defense Agencies (hereafter referred to collectively “as DoD Components”).
(b) The provisions of this part that relate to prohibited personnel practices do not apply to the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) or the National Security Agency (NSA), as prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 2302(a)(2)(C)(ii.).
(c) This part does not restrict the IG, DoD, in coordinating investigative efforts on individual cases with the OSC where concurrent jurisdiction exists.
§ 145.3
Definitions.
Improper or illegal conduct.
(a) A violation of any law, rule, or regulation in connection with Government misconduct; or
(b) Mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety.
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD).
(a) The immediate offices of the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, the Assistant Secretaries, Assistants to the Secretary, and other officials serving the Secretary of Defense directly.
(b) The field activities of the Secretary of Defense.
(c) The Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(d) The Unified and Specified Commands.
Personnel action.
(a) An appointment.
(b) A promotion.
(c) An adverse action under 5 U.S.C. 7501
et seq.
or other disciplinary or corrective action.
(d) A detail, transfer, or reassignment.
(e) A reinstatement.
(f) A restoration.
(g) A reemployment.
(h) A performance evaluation under 5 U.S.C. 4301
et seq.
(i) A decision concerning pay, benefits, or awards, or concerning education or training if the education or training may reasonably be expected to lead to an appointment, promotion, performance evaluation, or other personnel action.
(j) Any other significant change in duties or responsibilities that is inconsistent with the employee's salary or grade level.
Prohibited personnel practice.
Action taken by an employee who has authority to take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve any personnel action:
(a) That discriminates for or against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicapping condition, marital status, or political affiliation, as prohibited by certain specified laws (see 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(1).
(b) To solicit or consider any recommendation or statement, oral or written, with respect to any individual who requests, or is under consideration for, any personnel action, unless the recommendation or statement is based on the personal knowledge or records of the person furnishing it, and consists of an evaluation of the work performance, ability, aptitude, or general qualifications of the individual, or an evaluation of the character, loyalty, or suitability of such individual.
(c) To coerce the political activity of any person (including the providing of any political contribution or service), or take any action against any employee or applicant for employment as a reprisal for the refusal of any person to engage in such political activity.
(d) To deceive or willfully obstruct any person with respect to such person's right to compete for employment.
(e) To influence any person to withdraw from competition for any position for the purpose of improving or injuring the prospects of any other person for employment.
(f) To grant any preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to any employee or applicant for employment (including defining the scope or manner of competition or the requirements for any position) for the purpose of improving or injuring the prospects of any particular person for employment.
(g) To appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position any individual who is a relative (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3110) of the employee if the position is in the agency in which the employee is serving as a public official (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3110) or over which the employee exercises jurisdiction or control as an official.
(h) To take or fail to take a personnel action with respect to any employee or applicant for employment as a reprisal for being a whistleblower. (See whistleblower)
(i) To take or fail to take a personnel action against an employee or applicant for employment as a reprisal for the exercise of any appeal right granted by law, rule, or regulation.
(j) To discriminate for or against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of conduct that does not adversely affect the performance of the employee or applicant or the performance of others.
(k) To take or fail to take any other personnel action if the taking of, or failure to take, such action violates any law, rule, or regulation implementing, or directly concerning, the merit system principles contained in 5 U.S.C. 2301.
Whistleblower.
A present or former Federal employee or applicant for Federal employment who discloses information he or she reasonably believes evidences:
(a) A violation of any law, rule, or regulation.
(b) Mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, or an abuse of authority.
(c) A substantial or specific danger to public health or safety.
(d) Such disclosure qualifies if it is not specifically prohibited by statute and if such information is not specifically required by Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs.
(e) Where the information disclosed affects only the personal situation of the complaintant, it is generally to be regarded as an allegation of a prohibited personnel practice or violation of other civil service law, rule, or regulation, and the complainant will not be considered a whistleblower.
§ 145.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) Civilian personnel actions taken by DoD management officials, civilian and military, shall conform to laws and regulations implementing established merit system principles and must be
free of any prohibited personnel practices, as described in 5 U.S.C. 2302 and § 145.3 of this part.
(b) It is the responsibility of each DoD management official to take vigorous corrective action and, when appropriate, to initiate disciplinary measures when prohibited personnel practices occur.
(c) DoD Components shall cooperate with the Office of Special Counsel by:
(1) Promoting merit system principles in civilian employment programs within the Department of Defense.
(2) Investigating and reporting on allegations of improper or illegal conduct forwarded to the Component by the OSC pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 1206(b) (2) or (3).
(3) Facilitating orderly investigation by the OSC of alleged prohibited personnel practices and other matters assigned for investigation to the OSC by law, such as the Freedom of Information Act and the Hatch Act.
(d) DoD Components shall cooperate with the OSC by providing appropriate assistance and information to its representatives during their investigations and by furnishing to the OSC investigators copies of releasable documents requested under the authority of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, 5 CFR 1250, the Privacy Act, and Civil Service Rule V.
(e) Close coordination between DoD and OSC personnel during an OSC investigation is encouraged to eliminate duplication of effort, and to avoid unnecessary delay in initiating, when appropriate, corrective or disciplinary action. This coordination shall be conducted in full recognition of the independent statutory basis for the OSC, as provided in Pub. L. 95-454 and of the responsibilities of the Department of Defense.
(f) OSC investigative requests involving classified information shall be accorded special attention and prompt consideration under existing administrative procedures.
(g) When OSC and a DoD Component or an employee assigned DoD counsel are engaged in litigation, release of information shall be accomplished pursuant to MSPB rules of discovery (5 CFR 1201, subpart B.).
§ 145.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The
Secretaries of the Military Departments
and the
Director, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA),
shall prescribe implementing documents to ensure that:
(1) The policies, standards, and procedures set forth in this part are administered in a manner that encourages consistency in responding to investigations of alleged prohibited personnel practices.
(2) Alleged illegal or improper conduct referred to a Military Department or the DLA by the OSC or by OSD is carefully investigated.
(3) There is full cooperation with the IG, DoD, and the General Counsel, Department of Defense (GC, DoD), including assignment of military and civilian attorneys to represent employees suspected or accused by the OSC of committing a prohibited personnel practice or an otherwise illegal or improper act.
(b) The
General Counsel, Department of Defense
(GC, DoD) shall provide overall legal guidance, whether by the issuance of regulations or otherwise, on all issues concerning cooperation with the OSC. This authority extends to:
(1) Ensuring that DoD legal counsel is assigned upon request to represent a DoD employee suspected or accused by the OSC of committing a prohibited personnel practice or an illegal or improper act when the act complained of was within the scope of the employee's official responsibilities and such representation is in the interest of the Department of Defense; or, in unusual situations, that outside legal counsel is engaged where the use of DoD counsel would be inappropriate, and the same conditions are satisfied.
(2) Providing DoD legal counsel to seek intervention for the purpose of representing the interests of OSD or a Defense agency (other than the DLA) in an MSPB hearing resulting from charges of misconduct against an employee of OSD or a Defense agency, under the authority of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.
(3) Seeking the assistance of the Department of Justice in responding to requests by employees for legal representation in obtaining judicial review of an order by the MSPB, under 5 U.S.C. 1207.
(4) Modifying § 145.3 and Appendix to this part and issuing supplementary instructions concerning all aspects of DoD cooperation with the OSC, including instructions on OSC investigations of allegedly arbitrary and capricious withholding of information under the Freedom of Information Act or violations of the Hatch Act.
(5) Reviewing for adequacy and legal sufficiency with the IG, DoD, each report of an investigation that must be personally reviewed by the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense on action taken or to be taken in response to an OSC finding of reasonable cause to believe there has been a violation of law, rule, or regulation, not including a prohibited personnel practice or allegation referred to the Attorney General of the United States for appropriate action.
(c) The
Inspector General, Department of Defense
(IG, DoD) shall:
(1) Investigate, or cause to be investigated, as appropriate, any complaint referred to the Department of Defense by OSC.
(2) Coordinate, where feasible, investigative efforts by DoD Components and the OSC, with particular emphasis on those conducted or initiated by action of the OSC.
(3) Submit the results of any investigation conducted under this part to the appropriate General Counsel.
(d) The
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Administration)
(DASD(A)) shall serve as the Senior Management Official, as described in § 145.6(b) concerning allegations by the OSC of prohibited personnel practices or other illegal or improper acts in the OSD.
(e) The
General Counsels of the Military Departments
and the
General Counsel of the Defense Logistics Agency
shall have the same authority for their respective Components as given to the General Counsel, DoD, under paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section.
§ 145.6
Procedures.
(a)
Allegations of improper or illegal conduct received from the OSC under 5 U.S.C. 1206(b)(2), (3), or (c)(3).
(1) Allegations of improper or illegal conduct referred by the OSC to the Secretary of Defense or to a Defense agency (other than the DLA) shall be forwarded to the IG, DoD.
(2) Allegations of improper or illegal conduct referred to a Military Department or to the DLA by the OSC shall be forwarded to the General Counsel of that Component.
(3) Upon receipt of a referral under paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section IG, DoD, or the GC of the Component concerned, as appropriate, shall ensure compliance with the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 by obtaining a suitable investigation of an allegation, including compliance with time limits for reporting results of the investigation and personal review of the report by the head of the Component when required.
(4) Copies of each allegation referred under paragraph (a)(2) shall be forwarded by the General Counsel concerned to the IG, DoD.
(b)
OSC Investigations of Prohibited Personnel Practices.
(1) The head of each DoD Component shall designate a Senior Management Official to:
(i) Serve as a point of contact in providing assistance to the OSC in conducting investigations of alleged prohibited activities before any designation of an attorney of record for the Component or individual respondent for matters in litigation.
(ii) Monitor those investigations.
(iii) Ensure that appropriate Component personnel are fully apprised of the nature and basis for an OSC investigation, as well as the rights and duties of Component personnel in regard to such investigations.
(iv) Ensure that any corrective or disciplinary action considered appropriate because of facts disclosed by such an investigation is accomplished under paragraph (b)(2), in a timely manner.
(2) The designated Senior Management Official shall have authority to:
(i) Refer to responsible officials recommendations by the OSC for corrective action.
(ii) Seek OSC approval of proposed disciplinary action against an employee for an alleged prohibited personnel practice or illegal or improper act under investigation by the OSC when it is determined that such discipline is warranted.
(iii) Ensure that disciplinary action against an employee adjudged at fault following completion of an OSC investigation has been considered to avoid the need for a proceeding before the MSPB.
(iv) Ensure that information concerning members of the Armed Forces who are found by the Component to have committed a prohibited personnel practice or other violation of this Directive in the exercise of authority over civilian personnel is referred to appropriate military authority.
(3) The Senior Management Official shall:
(i) Establish a system under which an employee is identified to serve as the Liaison Officer for any OSC investigator who may initiate an investigation at a facility, base, or installation for which the employee is assigned liaison duties. It shall be the responsibility of the Liaison Officer to:
(A) Assist the OSC investigator.
(B) Ensure that all OSC requests for documents are in writing.
(C) Process such requests, as well as all requests for interviews.
(ii) Determine, to the extent practicable, whether an investigation is being, or has been, conducted that replicates in whole or in part the proposed or incomplete investigation by the OSC, and convey that information to the OSC whenever this might avoid redundant investigative effort.
(iii) Inform the General Counsel of the Component concerned of any OSC investigation and consult with the General Counsel on any legal issue related to an OSC investigation.
(iv) Ensure that Component personnel involved are given timely legal and policy advice, through arrangements effected by the Liaison Officer, on the nature and basis for an OSC investigation, the authority of the OSC, and the rights and duties of Component personnel, including those set forth in Appendix.
(v) Inform the IG, DoD, of any OSC investigation of an alleged prohibited personnel practice that is identified as having resulted from a whistleblower complaint or involves an allegation of otherwise illegal or improper conduct.
Pt. 145, App.

# Appendix to Part 145—Legal Representation
1. An employee or member of the Armed Forces asked to provide information (testimonial or documentary) to the OSC in the course of an investigation by that office may obtain legal advice from DoD attorneys, both civilian and military, on that employee's or members's rights and obligations. This includes assistance at any interviews with OSC investigators. However, the attorney-client relationship shall not be established unless the employee is suspected or accused by the OSC of committing a prohibited personnel practice or other illegal or improper act and has been assigned DoD counsel.
2. An employee who believes that he or she is suspected or has been accused by the OSC of committing a prohibited personnel practice or other illegal or improper act may obtain legal representation from the Department of Defense under the conditions prescribed in § 145(b)(1) of this part, except as provided in section 7, below. The attorney assigned shall be a military member or employee from another Component whenever an attorney from the same Component is likely to face a conflict between his or her ethical obligation to the employee client and to the Component employer, and in any case where the suspected or accused employee has requested representation from another Component. Outside legal counsel may be retained by the Component on behalf of the employee only under unusual circumstances and only with the personal approval of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
3. The General Counsel responsible for authorizing representation shall determine whether a conflict is liable to occur if an attorney from the same Component is assigned to represent the employee and, in that case or in a case in which the suspected or accused employee has requested representation from another Component, shall seek the assistance of another General Counsel in obtaining representation from outside the Component. The General Counsels of the Military Departments and the DLA shall ensure the availability of appropriately trained counsel for assignment to such cases.
4. To obtain legal representation the employee:
a. Must request legal representation, in writing, together with all process and pleadings served, and explain the circumstances that justify DoD legal assistance.
b. Indicate whether he or she has retained legal counsel from outside the Department of Defense.
c. Obtain a written certification from his or her supervisor that the employee was acting within the scope of his or her official duties, and that no adverse or disciplinary personnel action against the employee for the
conduct being investigated by the OSC has been initiated by the Component.
5. Employee requests for legal representation must be approved by the General Counsel, DoD, for employees of OSD or a Defense Agency (other than the DLA), or by the General Counsel of a Military Department or the General Counsel of the DLA for employees of those Components.
6. The conditions of legal representation must be explained to the accused employee in writing and accepted in writing by that employee.
7. DoD resources may not be used to provide legal representation for an employee with respect to a DoD disciplinary action against the employee for committing or participating in a prohibited personnel practice or for engaging in illegal or improper conduct, regardless of whether that participation or conduct is also the basis for disciplinary action proposed by the OSC.
8. After approval of an employee's request, under section 4, above, a DoD attorney shall be assigned (or, in unusual circumstances, outside counsel retained) as the employee's representative in matters pending before the OSC or MSPB. This approval may be limited to representing the employee only with respect to some of the pending matters if other specific matters of concern to the OSC or MSPB do not satisfy the requirements of his Directive.
9. An attorney-client relationship shall be established and continued between the suspected or accused employee and assigned DoD counsel.
10. In representing a DoD employee under this part, a DoD attorney designated counsel for the employee shall act as a vigorous advocate of the employee's individual legal interests before the OSC or MSPB; the attorney's professional responsibility to the Department of Defense and his or her employing Component will be satisfied by fulfilling this responsibility to the employee. Legal representation may be terminated only with the approval of the General Counsel who authorized representation, and normally only on the basis of information not available at the time the attorney was assigned.
11. The attorney-client relationship may be terminated if the assigned DoD counsel for the employee determines, with the approval of the General Counsel who authorizes representation, that:
a. The employee was acting outside the scope of his or her official duties when engaging in the conduct that is the basis for the OSC investigation or charge.
b. Termination of the professional representation is not in violation of the rules of professional conduct applicable to the assigned counsel.
12. The DoD attorney designated counsel may request relief from the duties of representation or counseling without being required to furnish explanatory information that might compromise the assurance to the client of confidentiality.
13. This part authorizes cognizant DoD officials to approve a represented employee's request for travel, per diem, witness appearances, or other departmental support necessary to ensure effective legal representation of the employee by the designated counsel.
14. An employee's participation in OSC investigations, MSPB hearings, and other related proceedings shall be considered official departmental business for time and attendance requirements and similar purposes.
15. The following advice to employees questioned during the course of an OSC investigation may be appropriate in response to the most frequent inquiries:
a. An employee may decline to provide a “yes” or “no” answer in favor of a more qualified answer when this is necessary to ensure accuracy in responding to an OSC interviewer's questions.
b. Requests for clarification of both questions and answers are appropriate to avoid misinterpretation.
c. Means to ensure verification of an interview by OSC investigators are appropriate, whether the employee is or is not accompanied by a legal representative. Tape recorders may only be used for this purpose when:
(1) The recorder is used in full view.
(2) All attendees are informed.
(3) The OSC interrogator agrees to the tape recording of the proceeding.
d. Any errors that appear in a written summary of an interview prepared by the interviewer should be corrected before the employee signs the statement. The employee is not required to sign any written summary that is not completely accurate. An employee may make a copy of the summary for his or her own use as a condition of signing.
Pt. 147

# PART 147—ADJUDICATIVE GUIDELINES FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Adjudicative Guidelines
Sec.
147.1
Introduction.
147.2
Adjudicative process.
147.3
Guideline A—Allegiance to the United States.
147.4
Guideline B—Foreign influence.
147.5
Guideline C—Foreign preference.
147.6
Guideline D—Sexual behavior.
147.7
Guideline E—Personal conduct.
147.8
Guideline F—Financial considerations.
147.9
Guideline G—Alcohol consumption.
147.10
Guideline H—Drug involvement.
147.11
Guideline I—Emotional, mental, and personality disorders.
147.12
Guideline J—Criminal conduct.
147.13
Guideline K—Security violations.
147.14
Guideline L—Outside activities.
147.15
Guideline M—Misuse of information technology systems.

# Subpart B—Investigative Standards
147.18
Introduction.
147.19
The three standards.
147.20
Exception to periods of coverage.
147.21
Expanding investigations.
147.22
Transferability.
147.23
Breaks in service.
147.24
The national agency check.
Attachment A to Subpart B of Part 147—Standard A—National Agency Check With Local Agency Checks and Credit Check (NACLC)
Attachment B to Subpart B of Part 147—Standard B—Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
Attachment C to Subpart B of Part 147—Standard C—Single Scope Background Investigation Periodic Reinvestigation (SSBI-PR)
Attachment D to Subpart B of Part 147—Decision Tables

# Subpart C—Guidelines for Temporary Access
147.28
Introduction.
147.29
Temporary eligibility for access.
147.30
Temporary eligibility for access at the CONFIDENTIAL AND SECRET levels and temporary eligibility for “L” access authorization.
147.31
Temporary eligibility for access at the TOP SECRET levels and temporary eligibility for “Q” access authorization. For someone who is the subject of a favorable investigation not meeting the investigative standards for access at those levels.
147.32
Temporary eligibility for access at the TOP SECRET and SCI levels and temporary eligibility for “Q” access authorization: For someone who is not the subject of a current, favorable personnel or personnel-security investigation of any kind.
147.33
Additional requirements by agencies.

# Authority:
E.O. 12968 (60 FR 40245, 3 CFR 1995 Comp., p 391).

# Source:
63 FR 4573, Jan. 30, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Adjudication
§ 147.1
Introduction.
The following adjudicative guidelines are established for all United States Government civilian and military personnel, consultants, contractors, employees of contractors, licensees, certificate holders or grantees and their employees and other individuals who require access to classified information. They apply to persons being considered for initial or continued eligibility for access to classified information, to include sensitive compartmented information and special access programs and are to be used by government departments and agencies in all final clearance determinations.
§ 147.2
Adjudicative process.
(a) The adjudicative process is an examination of a sufficient period of a person's life to make an affirmative determination that the person is eligible for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is predicated upon the individual meeting these personnel security guidelines. The adjudicative process is the careful weighing of a number of variables known as the whole person concept. Available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, should be considered in reaching a determination. In evaluating the relevance of an individual's conduct, the adjudicator should consider the following actors:
(1) The nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct;
(2) The circumstances surrounding the conduct, to include knowledgeable participation;
(3) The frequency and recency of the conduct;
(4) The individual's age and maturity at the time of the conduct;
(5) The voluntariness of participation;
(6) The presence or absence of rehabilitation and other pertinent behavioral changes;
(7) The motivation for the conduct;
(8) The potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress;
(9) The likelihood of continuation of recurrence.
(b) Each case must be judged on its own merits, and final determination remains the responsibility of the specific department or agency. Any doubt as to whether access to classified information is clearly consistent with national
security will be resolved in favor of the national security.
(c) The ultimate determination of whether the granting or continuing of eligibility for a security clearance is clearly consistent with the interests of national security must be an overall common sense determination based upon careful consideration of the following, each of which is to be evaluated in the context of the whole person, as explained further below:
(1) Guideline A: Allegiance to the United States.
(2) Guideline B: Foreign influence.
(3) Guideline C: Foreign preference.
(4) Guideline D: Sexual behavior.
(5) Guideline E: Personal conduct.
(6) Guideline F: Financial considerations.
(7) Guideline G: Alcohol consumption.
(8) Guideline H: Drug involvement.
(9) Guideline I: Emotional, mental, and personality disorders.
(10) Guideline J: Criminal conduct.
(11) Guideline K: Security violations.
(12) Guideline L: Outside activities.
(13) Guideline M: Misuse of Information Technology Systems.
(d) Although adverse information concerning a single criterion may not be sufficient for an unfavorable determination, the individual may be disqualified if available information reflects a recent or recurring pattern of questionable judgment, irresponsibility, or emotionally unstable behavior. Notwithstanding, the whole person concept, pursuit of further investigations may be terminated by an appropriate adjudicative agency in the face of reliable, significant, disqualifying, adverse information.
(e) When information of security concern becomes known about an individual who is currently eligible for access to classified information, the adjudicator should consider whether the person:
(1) Voluntarily reported the information;
(2) Was truthful and complete in responding to questions;
(3) Sought assistance and followed professional guidance, where appropriate;
(4) Resolved or appears likely to favorably resolve the security concern;
(5) Has demonstrated positive changes in behavior and employment;
(6) Should have his or her access temporarily suspended pending final adjudication of the information.
(f) If after evaluating information of security concern, the adjudicator decides that the information is not serious enough to warrant a recommendation of disapproval or revocation of the security clearance, it may be appropriate to recommend approval with a warning that future incidents of a similar nature may result in revocation of access.
§ 147.3
Guideline A—Allegiance to the United States.
(a)
The concern.
An individual must be of unquestioned allegiance to the United States. The willingness to safeguard classified information is in doubt if there is any reason to suspect an individual's allegiance to the United States.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) Involvement in any act of sabotage, espionage, treason, terrorism, sedition, or other act whose aim is to overthrow the Government of the United States or alter the form of government by unconstitutional means;
(2) Association or sympathy with persons who are attempting to commit, or who are committing, any of the above acts;
(3) Association or sympathy with persons or organizations that advocate the overthrow of the United States Government, or any state or subdivision, by force or violence or by other unconstitutional means;
(4) Involvement in activities which unlawfully advocate or practice the commission of acts of force or violence to prevent others from exercising their rights under the Constitution or laws of the United States or of any state.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) The individual was unaware of the unlawful aims of the individual or organization and severed ties upon learning of these;
(2) The individual's involvement was only with the lawful or humanitarian aspects of such an organization;
(3) Involvement in the above activities occurred for only a short period of time and was attributable to curiosity or academic interest;
(4) The person has had no recent involvement or association with such activities.
§ 147.4
Guideline B—Foreign influence.
(a)
The concern.
A security risk may exist when an individual's immediate family, including cohabitants and other persons to whom he or she may be bound by affection, influence, or obligation are not citizens of the United States or may be subject to duress. These situations could create the potential for foreign influence that could result in the compromise of classified information. Contacts with citizens of other countries or financial interests in other countries are also relevant to security determinations if they make an individual potentially vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or pressure.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) An immediate family member, or a person to whom the individual has close ties of affection or obligation, is a citizen of, or resident or present in, a foreign country;
(2) Sharing living quarters with a person or persons, regardless of their citizenship status, if the potential for adverse foreign influence or duress exists;
(3) Relatives, cohabitants, or associates who are connected with any foreign government;
(4) Failing to report, where required, associations with foreign nationals;
(5) Unauthorized association with a suspected or known collaborator or employee of a foreign intelligence service;
(6) Conduct which may make the individual vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or pressure by a foreign government;
(7) Indications that representatives or nationals from a foreign country are acting to increase the vulnerability of the individual to possible future exploitation, coercion or pressure;
(8) A substantial financial interest in a country, or in any foreign owned or operated business that could make the individual vulnerable to foreign influence.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) A determination that the immediate family member(s) (spouse, father, mother, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters), cohabitant, or associate(s) in question are not agents of a foreign power or in a position to be exploited by a foreign power in a way that could force the individual to choose between loyalty to the person(s) involved and the United States;
(2) Contacts with foreign citizens are the result of official United States Government business;
(3) Contact and correspondence with foreign citizens are casual and infrequent;
(4) The individual has promptly complied with existing agency requirements regarding the reporting of contacts, requests, or threats from persons or organizations from a foreign country;
(5) Foreign financial interests are minimal and not sufficient to affect the individual's security responsibilities.
§ 147.5
Guideline C—Foreign preference.
(a)
The concern.
When an individual acts in such a way as to indicate a preference for a foreign country over the United States, then he or she may be prone to provide information or make decisions that are harmful to the interests of the United States.
(b) Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) The exercise of dual citizenship;
(2) Possession and/or use of a foreign passport;
(3) Military service or a willingness to bear arms for a foreign country;
(4) Accepting educational, medical, or other benefits, such as retirement and social welfare, from a foreign country;
(5) Residence in a foreign country to meet citizenship requirements;
(6) Using foreign citizenship to protect financial or business interests in another country;
(7) Seeking or holding political office in the foreign country;
(8) Voting in foreign elections;
(9) Performing or attempting to perform duties, or otherwise acting, so as to serve the interests of another government in preference to the interests of the United States.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) Dual citizenship is based solely on parents' citizenship or birth in a foreign country;
(2) Indicators of possible foreign preference (e.g., foreign military service) occurred before obtaining United States citizenship;
(3) Activity is sanctioned by the United States;
(4) Individual has expressed a willingness to renounce dual citizenship.
§ 147.6
Guidance D—Sexual behavior.
(a)
The concern.
Sexual behavior is a security concern if it involves a criminal offense, indicates a personality or emotional disorder, may subject the individual to coercion, exploitation, or duress, or reflects lack of judgment or discretion.
1
Sexual orientation or preference may not be used as a basis for or a disqualifying factor in determining a person's eligibility for a security clearance.
1
The adjudicator should also consider guidelines pertaining to criminal conduct (Guideline J) and emotional, mental and personality disorders (Guideline I) in determining how to resolve the security concerns raised by sexual behavior.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) Sexual behavior of a criminal nature, whether or not the individual has been prosecuted;
(2) Compulsive or addictive sexual behavior when the person is unable to stop a pattern or self-destructive or high-risk behavior or that which is symptomatic of a personally disorder;
(3) Sexual behavior that causes an individual to be vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or duress;
(4) Sexual behavior of a public nature and/or that which reflects lack of discretion or judgment.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) The behavior occurred during or prior to adolescence and there is no evidence of subsequent conduct of a similar nature;
(2) The behavior was not recent and there is no evidence of subsequent conduct of a similar nature;
(3) There is no other evidence of questionable judgment, irresponsibility, or emotional instability;
(4) The behavior no longer serves as a basis for coercion, exploitation, or duress.
§ 147.7
Guideline E—Personal conduct.
(a)
The concern.
Conduct involving questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations could indicate that the person may not properly safeguard classified information. The following will normally result in an unfavorable clearance action or administrative termination of further processing for clearance eligibility:
(1) Refusal to undergo or cooperate with required security processing, including medical and psychological testing;
(2) Refusal to complete required security forms, releases, or provide full, frank and truthful answers to lawful questions of investigators, security officials or other representatives in connection with a personnel security or trustworthiness determination.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying also include:
(1) Reliable, unfavorable information provided by associates, employers, coworkers, neighbors, and other acquaintances;
(2) The deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant and material facts from any personnel security questionnaire, personal history statement, or similar form used to conduct investigations, determine employment qualifications, award benefits or status, determine security clearance eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities;
(3) Deliberately providing false or misleading information concerning relevant and material matters to an investigator, security official, competent medical authority, or other representative in connection with a personnel security or trustworthiness determination;
(4) Personal conduct or concealment of information that may increase an individual's vulnerability to coercion, exploitation, or duties, such as engaging in activities which, if known, may affect the person's personal, professional, or community standing or render the person susceptible to blackmail;
(5) A pattern of dishonesty or rule violations, including violation of any written or recorded agreement made between the individual and the agency;
(6) Association with persons involved in criminal activity.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) The information was unsubstantiated or not pertinent to a determination of judgment, trustworthiness, or reliability;
(2) The falsification was an isolated incident, was not recent, and the individual has subsequently provided correct information voluntarily;
(3) The individual made prompt, good faith efforts to correct the falsification before being confronted with the facts;
(4) Omission of material facts was caused or significantly contributed to by improper or inadequate advice of authorized personnel, and the previously omitted information was promptly and fully provided;
(5) The individual has taken positive steps to significantly reduce or eliminate vulnerability to coercion, exploitation, or duress;
(6) A refusal to cooperate was based on advice from legal counsel or other officials that the individual was not required to comply with security processing requirements and, upon being made aware of the requirement, fully and truthfully provided the requested information;
(7) Association with persons involved in criminal activities has ceased.
§ 147.8
Guideline F—Financial considerations.
(a)
The concern.
An individual who is financially overextended is at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Unexplained affluence is often linked to proceeds from financially profitable criminal acts.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) A history of not meeting financial obligations;
(2) Deceptive or illegal financial practices such as embezzlement, employee theft, check fraud, income tax evasion, expense account fraud, filing deceptive loan statements, and other intentional financial breaches of trust;
(3) Inability or unwillingness to satisfy debts;
(4) Unexplained affluence;
(5) Financial problems that are linked to gambling, drug abuse, alcoholism, or other issues of security concern.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) The behavior was not recent;
(2) It was an isolated incident;
(3) The conditions that resulted in the behavior were largely beyond the person's control (e.g., loss of employment, a business downturn, unexpected medical emergency, or a death, divorce or separation);
(4) The person has received or is receiving counseling for the problem and there are clear indications that the problem is being resolved or is under control;
(5) The affluence resulted from a legal source;
(6) The individual initiated a good-faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
§ 147.9
Guideline G—Alcohol consumption.
(a)
The concern.
Excessive alcohol consumption often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment, unreliability, failure to control impulses, and increases the risk of unauthorized disclosure of classified information due to carelessness.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) Alcohol-related incidents away from work, such as driving while under the influence, fighting, child or spouse abuse, or other criminal incidents related to alcohol use;
(2) Alcohol-related incidents at work, such as reporting for work or duty in an intoxicated or impaired condition, or drinking on the job;
(3) Diagnosis by a credentialed medical professional (e.g., physician, clinical psychologist, or psychiatrist) of alcohol abuse or alcohol dependence;
(4) Evaluation of alcohol abuse or alcohol dependence by a licensed clinical social worker who is a staff member of a recognized alcohol treatment program;
(5) Habitual or binge consumption of alcohol to the point of impaired judgment;
(6) Consumption of alcohol, subsequent to a diagnosis of alcoholism by a credentialed medical professional and following completion of an alcohol rehabilitation program.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) The alcohol related incidents do not indicate a pattern;
(2) The problem occurred a number of years ago and there is no indication of a recent problem;
(3) Positive changes in behavior supportive of sobriety;
(4) Following diagnosis of alcohol abuse or alcohol dependence, the individual has successfully completed impatient or outpatient rehabilitation along with aftercare requirements, participates frequently in meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous or a similar organization, has abstained from alcohol for a period of at least 12 months, and received a favorable prognosis by a credentialed medical professional or a licensed clinical social worker who is a staff member of a recognized alcohol treatment program.
§ 147.10
Guideline H—Drug involvement.
(a)
The concern.
(1) Improper or illegal involvement with drugs raises questions regarding an individual's willingness or ability to protect classified information. Drug abuse or dependence may impair social or occupational functioning, increasing the risk of an unauthorized disclosure of classified information.
(2) Drugs are defined as mood and behavior altering substances, and include:
(i) Drugs, materials, and other chemical compounds identified and listed in the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, as amended (e.g., marijuana or cannabis, depressants, narcotics, stimulants, and hallucinogens),
(ii) Inhalants and other similar substances.
(3) Drug abuse is the illegal use of a drug or use of a legal drug in a manner that deviates from approved medical direction.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) Any drug abuse (see above definition);
(2) Illegal drug possession, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution;
(3) Diagnosis by a credentialed medical professional (e.g., physician, clinical psychologist, or psychiatrist) of drug abuse or drug dependence;
(4) Evaluation of drug abuse or drug dependence by a licensed clinical social worker who is a staff member of a recognized drug treatment program;
(5) Failure to successfully complete a drug treatment program prescribed by a credentialed medical professional. Recent drug involvement, especially following the granting of a security clearance, or an expressed intent not to discontinue use, will almost invariably result in an unfavorable determination.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) The drug involvement was not recent;
(2) The drug involvement was an isolated or aberration event;
(3) A demonstrated intent not to abuse any drugs in the future;
(4) Satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program, including rehabilitation and aftercare requirements, without recurrence of abuse, and a favorable prognosis by a credentialed medical professional.
§ 147.11
Guideline I—Emotional, mental, and personality disorders.
(a)
The concern:
Emotional, mental, and personality disorders can cause a significant deficit in an individual's psychological, social and occupation functioning. These disorders are of security concern because they may indicate a defect in judgment, reliability, or stability. A credentialed mental health professional (e.g., clinical psychologist or psychiatrist), employed by, acceptable to or approved by the
government, should be utilized in evaluating potentially disqualifying and mitigating information fully and properly, and particularly for consultation with the individual's mental health care provider.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) An opinion by a credentialed mental health professional that the individual has a condition or treatment that may indicate a defect in judgment, reliability, or stability;
(2) Information that suggests that an individual has failed to follow appropriate medical advice relating to treatment of a condition, e.g., failure to take prescribed medication;
(3) A pattern of high-risk, irresponsible, aggressive, anti-social or emotionally unstable behavior;
(4) Information that suggests that the individual's current behavior indicates a defect in his or her judgment or reliability.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) There is no indication of a current problem;
(2) Recent opinion by a credentialed mental health professional that an individual's previous emotional, mental, or personality disorder is cured, under control or in remission and has a low probability of recurrence or exacerbation;
(3) The past emotional instability was a temporary condition (e.g., one caused by a death, illness, or marital breakup), the situation has been resolved, and the individual is no longer emotionally unstable.
§ 147.12
Guideline J—Criminal conduct.
(a)
The concern.
A history or pattern of criminal activity creates doubt about a person's judgment, reliability and trustworthiness.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) Allegations or admissions of criminal conduct, regardless of whether the person was formally charged;
(2) A single serious crime or multiple lesser offenses.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) The criminal behavior was not recent;
(2) The crime was an isolated incident;
(3) The person was pressured or coerced into committing the act and those pressures are no longer present in that person's life;
(4) The person did not voluntarily commit the act and/or the factors leading to the violation are not likely to recur;
(5) Acquittal;
(6) There is clear evidence of successful rehabilitation.
§ 147.13
Guideline K—Security violations.
(a)
The concern.
Noncompliance with security regulations raises doubt about an individual's trustworthiness, willingness, and ability to safeguard classified information.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include.
(1) Unauthorized disclosure of classified information;
(2) Violations that are deliberate or multiple or due to negligence.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include actions that:
(1) Were inadvertent;
(2) Were isolated or infrequent;
(3) Were due to improper or inadequate training;
(4) Demonstrate a positive attitude towards the discharge of security responsibilities.
§ 147.14
Guideline L—Outside activities.
(a)
The concern.
Involvement in certain types of outside employment or activities is of security concern if it poses a conflict with an individual's security responsibilities and could create an increased risk of unauthorized disclosure of classified information.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include any service, whether compensated, volunteer, or employment with:
(1) A foreign country;
(2) Any foreign national;
(3) A representative of any foreign interest;
(4) Any foreign, domestic, or international organization or person engaged in analysis, discussion, or publication of material on intelligence, defense, foreign affairs, or protected technology.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) Evaluation of the outside employment or activity indicates that it does not pose a conflict with an individual's security responsibilities;
(2) The individual terminates the employment or discontinues the activity upon being notified that it is in conflict with his or her security responsibilities.
§ 147.15
Guideline M—Misuse of Information technology systems.
(a)
The concern.
Noncompliance with rules, procedures, guidelines, or regulations pertaining to information technology systems may raise security concerns about an individual's trustworthiness, willingness, and ability to properly protect classified systems, networks, and information. Information Technology Systems include all related equipment used for the communication, transmission, processing, manipulation, and storage of classified or sensitive information.
(b)
Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying include:
(1) Illegal or unauthorized entry into any information technology system;
(2) Illegal or unauthorized modification, destruction, manipulation or denial of access to information residing on an information technology system;
(3) Removal (or use) of hardware, software, or media from any information technology system without authorization, when specifically prohibited by rules, procedures, guidelines or regulations;
(4) Introduction of hardware, software, or media into any information technology system without authorization, when specifically prohibited by rules, procedures, guidelines or regulations.
(c)
Conditions that could mitigate security concerns include:
(1) The misuse was not recent or significant;
(2) The conduct was unintentional or inadvertent;
(3) The introduction or removal of media was authorized;
(4) The misuse was an isolated event;
(5) The misuse was followed by a prompt, good faith effort to correct the situation.

# Subpart B—Investigative Standards
§ 147.18
Introduction.
The following investigative standards are established for all United States Government civilian and military personnel, consultants, contractors, employees of contractors, licensees, certificate holders or grantees and their employees and other individuals who require access to classified information, to include Sensitive Compartmented Information and Special Access Programs, and are to be used by government departments and agencies as the investigative basis for final clearance determinations. However, nothing in these standards prohibits an agency from using any lawful investigative procedures in addition to these requirements in order to resolve any issue identified in the course of a background investigation or reinvestigation.
§ 147.19
The three standards.
There are three standards (Attachment D to this subpart part summarizes when to use each one):
(a) The investigation and reinvestigation standards for “L” access authorizations and for access to confidential and secret (including all secret-level Special Access Programs not specifically approved for enhanced investigative requirements by an official authorized to establish Special Access Programs by section in 4.4 of Executive Order 12958) (60 FR 19825, 3 CFR 1995 Comp., p. 33);
(b) The investigation standard for “Q” access authorizations and for access to top secret (including top secret Special Access Programs) and Sensitive Compartmented Information;
(c) The reinvestigation standard for continued access to the levels listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 147.20
Exception to periods of coverage.
Some elements of standards specify a period of coverage (e.g. seven years). Where appropriate, such coverage may be shortened to the period from the subject's eighteenth birthday to the present or to two years, whichever is longer.
§ 147.21
Expanding investigations.
Investigations and reinvestigations may be expanded under the provisions of Executive Order 12968 (60 FR 40245, 3 CFR 1995 Comp., p. 391) and other applicable statutes and Executive Orders.
§ 147.22
Transferability.
Investigations that satisfy the requirements of a given standard and are current meet the investigative requirements for all levels specified for the standard. They shall be mutually and reciprocally accepted by all agencies.
§ 147.23
Breaks in service.
If a person who requires access has been retired or separated from U.S. government employment for less than two years and is the subject of an investigation that is otherwise current, the agency regranting the access will, as a minimum, review an updated Standard Form 86 and applicable records. A reinvestigation is not required unless the review indicates the person may no longer satisfy the standards of Executive Order 12968 (60 FR 40245, 3 CFR 1995 Comp., p. 391); (Attachment D to this subpart, Table 2).
§ 147.24
The national agency check.
The National Agency Check is a part of all investigations and reinvestigations. It consists of a review of;
(a) Investigative and criminal history files of the FBI, including a technical fingerprint search;
(b) OPM's Security/Suitability Investigations Index;
(c) DoD's Defense Clearance and Investigations Index;
(d) Such other national agencies (e.g., CIA, INS) as appropriate to the individual's background.
Pt. 147, Subpt. B, Att. A

# Attachment A to Subpart B of Part 147—Standard A—National Agency Check With Local Agency Checks and Credit Check (NACLC)
(a)
Applicability.
Standard A applies to investigations and reinvestigations for;
(1) Access to CONFIDENTIAL and SECRET (including all SECRET-level Special Access Programs not specifically approved for enhanced investigative requirements by an official authorized to establish Special Access Programs by sect. 4.4 of Executive Order 12958) (60 FR 19825, 3 CFR 1995 Comp., p. 333);
(2) “L” access authorizations.
(b)
For Reinvestigation: When to Reinvestigate.
The reinvestigation may be initiated at any time following completion of, but not later than ten years (fifteen years for CONFIDENTIAL) from the date of, the previous investigation or reinvestigation. (Attachment D to this subpart, Table 2, reflects the specific requirements for when to request a reinvestigation, including when there has been a break in service.)
(c)
Investigative Requirements.
Investigative requirements are as follows:
(1)
Completion of Forms:
Completion of Standard Form 86, including applicable releases and supporting documentation.
(2)
National Agency Check:
Completion of a National Agency Check.
(3)
Financial Review:
Verification of the subject's financial status, including credit bureau checks covering all locations where the subject has resided, been employed, or attended school for six months or more for the past seven years.
(4)
Date and Place of Birth:
Corroboration of date and place of birth through a check of appropriate documentation, if not completed in any previous investigation; a check of Bureau of Vital Statistics records when any discrepancy is found to exist.
(5)
Local Agency Checks:
As a minimum, all investigations will include checks of law enforcement agencies having jurisdiction where the subject has lived, worked, and/or attended school within the last five years, and, if applicable, of the appropriate agency for any identified arrests.
(d)
Expanding the Investigation:
The investigation may be expanded if necessary to determine if access is clearly consistent with the national security.
Pt. 147, Subpt. B, Att. B

# Attachment B to Subpart B of Part 147—Standard B—Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
(a)
Applicability.
Standard B applies to initial investigations for;
(1) Access to TOP SECRET (including TOP SECRET Special Access Programs) and Sensitive Compartment Information;
(2) “Q” access authorizations.
(b)
Investigative Requirements.
Investigative requirements are as follows:
(1)
Completion of Forms:
Completion of Standard Form 86, including applicable releases and supporting documentation.
(2)
National Agency Check:
Completion of a National Agency Check.
(3)
National Agency Check for the Spouse or Cohabitant (if applicable):
Completion of a National Agency Check, without fingerprint cards, for the spouse or cohabitant.
(4)
Date and Place of Birth:
Corroboration of date and place of birth through a check of appropriate documentation; a check of Bureau of Vital Statistics records when any discrepancy is found to exist.
(5)
Citizenship:
For individuals born outside the United States, verification of US citizenship directly from the appropriate registration authority; verification of US citizenship or legal status of foreign-born immediate family members (spouse, cohabitant, father, mother, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters).
(6)
Education:
Corroboration of most recent or most significant claimed attendance, degree, or diploma. Interviews of appropriate educational sources if education is a primary activity of the subject during the most recent three years.
(7)
Employment:
Verification of all employments for the past seven years; personal interviews of sources (supervisors, coworkers, or both) for each employment of six months or more; corroboration through records or sources of all periods of unemployment exceeding sixty days; verification of all prior federal and military service, including discharge type. For military members, all service within one branch of the armed forces will be considered as one employment, regardless of assignments.
(8)
References:
Four references, of whom at least two are developed; to the extent practicable, all should have social knowledge of the subject and collectively span at least the last seven years.
(9)
Former Spouse:
An interview of any former spouse divorced within the last ten years.
(10)
Neighborhoods:
Confirmation of all residences for the last three years through appropriate interviews with neighbors and through records reviews.
(11)
Financial Review:
Verification of the subject's financial status, including credit bureau checks covering all locations where subject has resided, been employed, and/or attended school for six months or more for the last seven years.
(12)
Local Agency Checks:
A check of appropriate criminal history records covering all locations where, for the last ten years, the subject has resided, been employed, and/or attended school for six months or more, including current residence regardless of duration.

# Note:
If no residence, employment, or education exceeds six months, local agency checks should be performed as deemed appropriate.
(13)
Public Records:
Verification of divorces, bankruptcies, and other court actions, whether civil or criminal, involving the subject.
(14)
Subject Interview:
A subject interview, conducted by trained security, investigative, or counterintelligence personnel. During the investigation, additional subject interviews may be conducted to collect relevant information, to resolve significant inconsistencies, or both. Sworn statements and unsworn declarations may be taken whenever appropriate.
(15)
Polygraph (only in agencies with approved personnel security polygraph programs):
In departments or agencies with policies sanctioning the use of the polygraph for personnel security purposes, the investigation may include a polygraph examination, conducted by a qualified polygraph examiner.
(c)
Expanding the Investigation.
The investigation may be expanded as necessary. As appropriate, interviews with anyone able to provide information or to resolve issues, including but not limited to cohabitants, relatives, psychiatrists, psychologists, other medical professionals, and law enforcement professionals may be conducted.
Pt. 147, Subpt. B, Att. C

# Attachment C to Subpart B of Part 147—Standard C—Single Scope Background Investigation Periodic Reinvestigation (SSBI-PR)
(a)
Applicability.
Standard C applies to reinvestigation for;
(1)
Access to TOP SECRET (including TOP SECRET Special Access Programs) and Sensitive Compartmented Information;
(2) “Q” access authorizations.
(b)
When to Reinvestigate.
The reinvestigation may be initiated at any time following completion of, but not later than five years from the date of, the previous investigation (see Attachment D to this subpart, Table 2).
(c)
Reinvestigative Requirements.
Reinvestigative requirements are as follows:
(1)
Completion of Forms:
Completion of Standard Form 86, including applicable releases and supporting documentation.
(2)
National Agency Check:
Completion of a National Agency Check (fingerprint cards are required only if there has not been a previous valid technical check of the FBI).
(3)
National Agency Check for the Spouse or Cohabitant (if applicable):
Completion of a National Agency Check, without fingerprint cards, for the spouse or cohabitant. The National Agency Check for the spouse or cohabitant is not required if already completed in conjunction with a previous investigation or reinvestigation.
(4)
Employment:
Verification of all employments since the last investigation. Attempts to interview a sufficient number of sources (supervisors, coworkers, or both) at all employments of six months or more. For military members, all services within one branch of the armed forces will be considered as one employment, regardless of assignments.
(5)
References:
Interviews with two character references who are knowledgeable of the subject; at least one will be a developed reference. To the extent practical, both should have social knowledge of the subject and collectively span the entire period of the reinvestigation. As appropriate, additional interviews may be conducted, including with cohabitants and relatives.
(6)
Neighborhoods:
Interviews of two neighbors in the vicinity of the subject's most recent residence of six months or more. Confirmation of current residence regardless of length.
(7)
Financial Review—Financial Status:
Verification of the subject's financial status, including credit bureau checks covering all locations where subject has resided, been employed, and/or attended school for six months or more for the period covered by the reinvestigation;
(ii)
Check of Treasury's Financial Data Base:
Agencies may request the Department of the Treasury, under terms and conditions prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, to search automated data bases consisting of reports of currency transactions by financial institutions, international transportation of currency or monetary instruments, foreign bank and financial accounts, and transactions under $10,000 that are reported as possible money laundering violations.
(8)
Local Agency Checks:
A check of appropriate criminal history records covering all locations where, during the period covered by the reinvestigation, the subject has resided, been employed, and/or attended school for six months or more, including current residence regardless of duration. (Note: If no residence, employment, or education exceeds six months, local agency checks should be performed as deemed appropriate.)
(9)
Former Spouse:
An interview with any former spouse unless the divorce took place before the date of the last investigation or reinvestigation.
(10)
Public Records:
Verification of divorces, bankruptcies, and other court actions, whether civil or criminal, involving the subject since the date of the last investigation.
(11)
Subject Interview:
A subject interview, conducted by trained security, investigative, or counterintelligence personnel. During the reinvestigation, additional subject interviews may be conducted to collect relevant information, to resolve significant inconsistencies, or both. Sworn statements and unsworn declarations may be taken whenever appropriate.
(d)
Expanding the Reinvestigation:
The reinvestigation may be expanded as necessary. As appropriate, interviews with anyone able to provide information or to resolve issues, including but not limited to cohabitants, relatives, psychiatrists, psychologists, other medical professionals, and law enforcement professionals may be conducted.
Pt. 147, Subpt. B, Att. D

# Attachment D to Subpart B of Part 147—Decision Tables
Table 1—Which Investigation to Request
If the requirement is for
And the person has this access
Based on this investigation
Then the investigation required is
Using standard
Confidential Secret; “L”
None
None
NACLC
A
Out of date NACLC or SSBI
Conf, Sec; “L”
Top Secret, SCI; “Q”
None
None
SSBI
B
None; Conf, Sec; “L”
Current or out of date NACLC
Out of date SSBI
TS, SCI; “Q”
SSBI-PR
C
Table 2—Reinvestigation Requirements
If the requirement is for
And the age of the investigation is
Type required if there has been a break in service of
0-23 months
24 months or more
Confidential
0 to 14 years. 11 mos
None (note 1)
NACLC
15 yrs. or more
NACLC
Secret; “L”
0 to 9 yrs 11 mos
None (note 1)
10 yrs. or more
NACLC
Top Secret, SCI; “Q”
0 to 4 yrs. 11 mos
None (note 1)
SSBI
5 yrs or more
SSBI-PR
Note:
As a minimum, review an updated Standard Form 84 and applicable records. A reinvestigation (NACLC or SSBI-PR) is not required unless the review indicates the person may no longer satisfy the standards of Executive Order 12968.

# Subpart C—Guidelines for Temporary Access
§ 147.28
Introduction.
The following minimum investigative standards, implementing section 3.3 of Executive Order 12968,
Access to Classified Information,
are established for all United States Government and military personnel, consultants, contractors, subcontractors, employees of contractors, licensees, certificate holders or grantees and their employees and other individuals who require access to classified information before the appropriate investigation can be completed and a final determination made.
§ 147.29
Temporary eligibility for access.
Based on a justified need meeting the requirements of section 3.3 of Executive Order 12968, temporary eligibility for access may be granted before investigations are complete and favorably adjudicated, where official functions must be performed prior to completion of the investigation and adjudication process. The temporary eligibility will be valid until completion of the investigation and adjudication; however, the agency granting it may revoke it at any time based on unfavorable information identified in the course of the investigation.
§ 147.30
Temporary eligibility for access at the confidential and secret levels and temporary eligibility for “L” access authorization.
As a minimum, such temporary eligibility requires completion of the Standard Form 86, including any applicable supporting documentation, favorable review of the form by the appropriate adjudicating authority, and submission of a request for an expedited National Agency Check with Local Agency Checks and Credit (NACLC).
§ 147.31
Temporary eligibility for access at the top secret levels and temporary eligibility for “Q” access authorization: For someone who is the subject of a favorable investigation not meeting the investigative standards for access at those levels.
As a minimum, such temporary eligibility requires completion of the Standard Form 86, including any applicable supporting documentation, favorable review of the form by the appropriate adjudicating authority, and expedited submission of a request for a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI).
§ 147.32
Temporary eligibility for access at the top secret and SCI levels and temporary eligibility for “Q” access authorization: For someone who is not the subject of a current, favorable personnel or personnel-security investigation of any kind.
As a minimum, such temporary eligibility requires completion of the Standard Form 86, including any applicable supporting documentation, favorable review of the form by the appropriate adjudicating authority, immediate submission of a request for an expedited Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI), and completion and favorable review by the appropriate adjudicating authority of relevant criminal history and investigative records of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and of information in the Security/Suitability Investigations Index (SII) and the Defense Clearance and Investigations Index (DCII).
§ 147.33
Additional requirements by agencies.
Temporary eligibility for access must satisfy these minimum investigative standards, but agency heads may
establish additional requirements based on the sensitivity of the particular, identified categories of classified information necessary to perform the lawful and authorized functions that are the basis for granting temporary eligibility for access. However, no additional requirements shall exceed the common standards for background investigations developed under section 3.2(b) of Executive Order 12968. Temporary eligibility for access is valid only at the agency granting it and at other agencies who expressly agree to accept it and acknowledge understanding of its investigative basis. It is further subject to limitations specified in sections 2.4(d) and 3.3 of Executive Order 12968,
Access to Classified Information.
Pt. 148

# PART 148—NATIONAL POLICY AND IMPLEMENTATION OF RECIPROCITY OF FACILITIES

# Subpart A—National Policy on Reciprocity of Use and Inspections of Facilities
Sec.
148.1
Interagency reciprocal acceptance.
148.2
Classified programs.
148.3
Security review.
148.4
Policy documentation.
148.5
Identification of the security policy board.
148.6
Agency review.

# Subpart B—Guidelines for the Implementation and Oversight of the Policy on Reciprocity of Use and Inspections of Facilities
148.10
General.
148.11
Policy.
148.12
Definitions.
148.13
Responsibilities.
148.14
Procedures.

# Authority:
E.O. 12968 (60 FR 40245, 3 CFR 1995 Comp., p. 391.)

# Source:
63 FR 4580, Jan. 30, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—National Policy on Reciprocity of Use and Inspections of Facilities
§ 148.1
Interagency reciprocal acceptance.
Interagency reciprocal acceptance of security policies and procedures for approving, accrediting, and maintaining the secure posture of shared facilities will reduce aggregate costs, promote interoperability of agency security systems, preserve vitality of the U.S. industrial base, and advance national security objectives.
§ 148.2
Classified programs.
Once a facility is authorized, approved, certified, or accredited, all U.S. Government organizations desiring to conduct classified programs at the facility at the same security level shall accept the authorization, approval, certification, or accreditation without change, enhancements, or upgrades. Executive Order, Safeguarding Directives, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), the NISPOM Supplement, the Director of Central Intelligence Directives, interagency agreements, successor documents, or other mutually agreed upon methods shall be the basis for such acceptance.
§ 148.3
Security review.
After initial security authorization, approval, certification, or accreditation, subsequent security reviews shall normally be conducted no more frequently than annually.
Additionally, such reviews shall be aperiodic or random, and be based upon risk management principles. Security reviews may be conducted “for cause”, to follow up on previous findings, or to accomplish close-out actions. Visits may be made to a facility to conduct security support actions, administrative inquiries, program reviews, and approvals as deemed appropriate by the cognizant security authority or agency.
§ 148.4
Policy documentation.
Agency heads shall ensure that any policy documents their agency issues setting out facilities security policies and procedures incorporate the policy set out herein, and that such policies are reasonable, effective, efficient, and enable and promote interagency reciprocity.
§ 148.5
Identification of the security policy board.
Agencies which authorize, approve, certify, or accredit facilities shall provide to the Security Policy Board Staff a points of contact list to include names and telephone numbers of personnel to be contacted for verification of authorized, approved, certified, or accredited facility status. The Security Policy Board Staff will publish a comprehensive directory of points of contact.
§ 148.6
Agency review.
Agencies will continue to review and assess the potential value added to the process of co-use of facilities by development of electronic data retrieval across government. As this review continues, agencies creating or modifying facilities databases will do so in a manner which facilitates community data sharing, interest of national defense or foreign policy.

# Subpart B—Guidelines for the Implementation and Oversight of the Policy on Reciprocity of use and Inspections of Facilities
§ 148.10
General.
(a) Redundant, overlapping, and duplicative policies and practices that govern the co-use of facilities for classified purposes have resulted in excessive protection and unnecessary expenditure of funds. Lack of reciprocity has also impeded achievement of national security objectives and adversely affected economic and technological interest.
(b) Interagency reciprocal acceptance of security policies and procedures for approving, accrediting, and maintaining the secure posture of shared facilities will reduce the aggregate costs, promote interoperability of agency security systems, preserve the vitality of the U.S. industrial base, and advance national security objectives.
(c) Agency heads, or their designee, are encouraged to periodically issue written affirmations in support of the policies and procedures prescribed herein and in the Security Policy Board (SPB) policy, entitled “Reciprocity of Use and Inspections of Facilities.”
(d) The policies and procedures prescribed herein shall be applicable to all agencies. This document does not supersede the authority of the Secretary of Defense under Executive Order 12829 (58 FR 3479, 3 CFR 1993 Comp., p. 570); the Secretary of Energy or the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the Secretary of State under the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Anti-Terrorism Act of 1986; the Secretaries of the military departments and military department installation Commanders under the Internal Security Act of 1950; the Director of Central Intelligence under the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, or Executive Order 12333; the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office under Executive Order 12829 or Executive Order 12958 (60 FR 19825, 3 CFR 1995 Comp., p. 333); or substantially similar authority instruments assigned to any other agency head.
§ 148.11
Policy.
(a) Agency heads, or their designee, shall ensure that security policies and procedures for which they are responsible are reasonable, effective, and efficient, and that those policies and procedures enable and promote interagency reciprocity.
(b) To the extent reasonable and practical, and consistent with US law, Presidential decree, and bilateral and international obligations of the United States, the security requirements, restrictions, and safeguards applicable to industry shall be equivalent to those applicable within the Executive Branch of government.
(c) Once a facility is authorized approved, certified, or accredited, all government organizations desiring to conduct classified programs at the facility at the same security level shall accept the authorization, approval, certification, or accreditation without change, enhancements, or upgrades.
§ 148.12
Definitions.
Agency.
Any “executive agency,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105; any “Military department” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102;
and any other entity within the Executive Branch that comes into possession of classified information.
Classified Information.
All information that requires protection under Executive Order 12958, or any of its antecedent orders, and the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
Cognizant Security Agency (CSA).
Those agencies that have been authorized by Executive Order 12829 to establish an industrial security program for the purpose of safeguarding classified information disclosed or released to industry.
Cognizant Security Office (CSO).
The office or offices delegated by the head of a CSA to administer industrial security in a contractor's facility on behalf of the CSA.
Facility.
An activity of a government agency or cleared contractor authorized by appropriate authority to conduct classified operations or to perform classified work.
Industry.
Contractors, licensees, grantees, and certificate holders obligated by contract or other written agreement to protect classified information under the National Industrial Security Program.
National Security.
The national defense and foreign relations of the United States.
Senior Agency Official.
Those officials, pursuant to Executive Order 12958, designated by the agency head who are assigned the responsibility to direct and administer the agency's information security program.
§ 148.13
Responsibilities.
(a) Each Senior Agency Official shall ensure that adequate reciprocity provisions are incorporated within his or her regulatory issuances that prescribe agency safeguards for protecting classified information.
(b) Each Senior Agency Official shall develop, implement, and oversee a program that ensures agency personnel adhere to the policies and procedures prescribed herein and the reciprocity provisions of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM).
(c) Each Senior Agency Official must ensure that implementation encourages reporting of instances of non-compliance, without fear of reprisal, and each reported instance is aggressively acted upon.
(d) The Director, Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO), consistent with his assigned responsibilities under Executive Order 12829, serves as the central point of contact within Government to consider and take action on complaints and suggestions from industry concerning alleged violations of the reciprocity provisions of the NISPOM.
(e) The Director, Security Policy Board Staff (D/SPBS) or his/her designee, shall serve as the central point of contact within Government to receive from Federal Government employees alleged violations of the reciprocity provisions prescribed herein and the policy “Reciprocity of Use and Inspections of Facilities” of the SPB.
§ 148.14
Procedures.
(a) Agencies that authorize, approve, certify, or accredit facilities shall provide to the SPB Staff a points of contact list to include names and telephone numbers of personnel to be contacted for verification of the status of facilities. The SPB Staff will publish a comprehensive directory of agency points of contact.
(b) After initial security authorization, approval, certification, or accreditation, subsequent reviews shall normally be conducted no more frequently than annually. Additionally, such reviews shall be aperiodic or random, and be based upon risk-management principles. Security Reviews may be conducted “for cause”, to follow up on previous findings, or to accomplish close-out actions.
(c) The procedures employed to maximize interagency reciprocity shall be based primarily upon existing organizational reporting channels. These channels should be used to address alleged departures from established reciprocity requirements and should resolve all, including the most egregious instances of non-compliance.
(d) Two complementary mechanisms are hereby established to augment existing organizational channels: (1) An accessible and responsive venue for reporting and resolving complaints/reported instances of non-compliance.
Government and industry reporting channels shall be as follows:
(1)
Government.
(A) Agency employees are encouraged to bring suspected departures from applicable reciprocity requirements to the attention of the appropriate security authority in accordance with established agency procedures.
(B) Should the matter remain unresolved, the complainant (employee, Security Officer, Special Security Officer, or similar official) is encouraged to report the matter formally to the Senior Agency Official for resolution.
(C) Should the Senior Agency Official response be determined inadequate by the complainant, the matter should be reported formally to the Director, Security Policy Board Staff (D/SPBS). The D/SPBS, may revisit the matter with the Senior Agency Official or refer the matter to the Security Policy Forum as deemed appropriate.
(D) Should the matter remain unresolved, the Security Policy Forum may consider referral to the SPB, the agency head, or the National Security Council as deemed appropriate.
(ii)
Industry.
(A) Contractor employees are encouraged to bring suspected departures from the reciprocity provisions of the NISPOM to the attention to their Facility Security Officer (FSO) or Contractor Special Security Officer (CSSO), as appropriate, for resolution.
(B) Should the matter remain unresolved, the complainant (employee, FSO, or CSSO) is encouraged to report the matter formally to the Cognizant Security Office (CSO) for resolution.
(C) Should the CSO responses be determined inadequate by the complainant, the matter should be reported formally to the Senior Agency Official within the Cognizant Security Agency (CSA) for resolution.
(D) Should the Senior Agency Official response be determined inadequately by the complainant, the matter should be reported formally to the Director, information Security Oversight Office (ISOO) for resolution.
(E) The Director, ISOO, may revisit the matter with the Senior Agency Official or refer the matter to the agency head or the National Security Council as deemed appropriate.
(2) An annual survey administered to a representative sampling of agency and private sector facilities to assess overall effectiveness of agency adherence to applicable reciprocity requirements.
(i) In coordination with the D/SPBS, the Director, ISOO, as Chairman of the NISP Policy Advisory Committee (NISPPAC), shall develop and administer an annual survey to a representative number of cleared contractor activities/employees to assess the effectiveness of interagency reciprocity implementation. Administration of the survey shall be coordinated fully with each affected Senior Agency Official.
(ii) In coordination with the NISPPAC, the D/SPBS shall develop and administer an annual survey to a representative number of agency activities/personnel to assess the effectiveness of interagency reciprocity implementation. Administration of the survey shall be coordinated fully with each affected Senior Agency Official.
(iii) The goal of annual surveys should not be punitive but educational. All agencies and departments have participated in the crafting of these facilities policies, therefore, non-compliance is a matter of internal education and direction.
(e) Agencies will continue to review and assess the potential value added to the process of co-use of facilities by development of electronic data retrieval across government.

# SUBCHAPTER E—REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO MILITARY JUSTICE
Pt. 150

# PART 150—COURTS OF CRIMINAL APPEALS RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
Sec.
150.1
Name and seal.
150.2
Jurisdiction.
150.3
Scope of review.
150.4
Quorum.
150.5
Place for filing papers.
150.6
Signing of papers.
150.7
Computation of time.
150.8
Qualification of counsel.
150.9
Conduct of counsel.
150.10
Request for appellate defense counsel.
150.11
Assignment of counsel.
150.12
Retention of civilian counsel.
150.13
Notice of appearance of counsel.
150.14
Waiver or withdrawal of appellate review.
150.15
Assignments of error and briefs.
150.16
Oral arguments.
150.17
En banc proceedings.
150.18
Orders and decisions of the Court.
150.19
Reconsideration.
150.20
Petitions for extraordinary relief, answer, and reply.
150.21
Appeals by the United States.
150.22
Petitions for new trial.
150.23
Motions.
150.24
Continuances and interlocutory matters.
150.25
Suspension of rules.
150.26
Internal rules.
150.27
Recording, photographing, broadcasting, or telecasting of hearings.
150.28
Amendments.
Appendix A to Part 150—Format for Direction for Review in a Court of Criminal Appeals
Appendix B to Part 150—Format for Assignment of Errors and Brief on Behalf of Accused (§ 150.15)

# Authority:
Article 66(f), Uniform Code of Military Justice (10 U.S.C. § 866(f) (1994)).

# Source:
62 FR 2017, Jan. 15, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 150.1
Name and seal.
(a) The titles of the Courts of Criminal Appeals of the respective services are:
(1) “United States Army Court of Criminal Appeals.”
(2) “United States Navy-Marine Corps Court of Criminal Appeals.”
(3) “United States Air Force Court of Criminal Appeals.”
(4) “United States Coast Guard Court of Criminal Appeals.”
(b) Each Court is authorized a seal in the discretion of the Judge Advocate General concerned. The design of such seal shall include the title of the Court.
§ 150.2
Jurisdiction.
(a) The jurisdiction of the Court is as follows:
(1)
Review under Article 66.
All cases of trial by court-martial in which the sentence as approved extends to:
(i) Death; or
(ii) Dismissal of a commissioned officer, cadet or midshipman, dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, or confinement for 1 year or longer; and in which the accused has not waived or withdrawn appellate review.
(2)
Review upon direction of the Judge Advocate General under Article 69.
All cases of trial by court-martial in which there has been a finding of guilty and a sentence:
(i) For which Article 66 does not otherwise provide appellate review, and
(ii) Which the Judge Advocate General forwards to the Court for review pursuant to Article 69(d), and
(iii) In which the accused has not waived or withdrawn appellate review.
(3)
Review under Article 62.
All cases of trial by court-martial in which a punitive discharge may be adjudged and a military judge presides, and in which the government appeals an order or ruling of the military judge that terminates the proceedings with respect to a charge or specification or excludes evidence that is substantial proof of a fact material to the proceedings, or directs the disclosure of classified information, imposes sanctions for nondisclosure of classified information, or refuses to issue or enforce a protective order sought by the United States to prevent the disclosure of classified information.
(4)
Review under Article 73.
All petitions for a new trial in cases of trial by court-martial which are referred to the Court by the Judge Advocate General.
(b)
Extraordinary writs.
The Court may, in its discretion, entertain petitions for extraordinary relief including, but not limited to, writs of mandamus, writs of prohibition, writs of habeas corpus, and writs of error coram nobis.
(c)
Effect of rules on jurisdiction.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to extend or limit the jurisdiction of the Courts of Criminal Appeals as established by law.
§ 150.3
Scope of review.
In cases referred to it for review pursuant to Article 66, the Court may act only with respect to the findings and sentence as approved by the convening authority. In reviewing a case or action under Article 69(d) or in determining an appeal under Article 62, the Court may act only with respect to matters of law. The Court may, in addition, review such other matters and take such other action as it determines to be proper under substantive law.e
§ 150.4
Quorum.
(a)
In panel.
When sitting in panel, a majority of the judges assigned to that panel constitutes a quorum for the purpose of hearing or determining any matter referred to the panel. The determination of any matter referred to the panel shall be according to the opinion of a majority of the judges participating in the decision. However, any judge present for duty may issue all necessary orders concerning any proceedings pending on panel and any judge present for duty, or a clerk of court or commissioner to whom the Court has delegated authority, may act on uncontested motions, provided such action does not finally dispose of a petition, appeal, or case before the Court.
(b)
En banc.
When sitting as a whole, a majority of the judges of the Court constitutes a quorum for the purpose of hearing and determining any matter before the Court. The determination of any matter before the Court shall be according to the opinion of a majority of the judge participating in the decision. In the absence of a quorum, any judge present for duty may issue all necessary orders concerning any proceedings pending in the Court preparatory to hearing or decision thereof.
§ 150.5
Place for filing papers.
When the filing of a notice of appearance, brief, or other paper in the office of a Judge Advocate General is required by this part, such papers shall be filed in the office of the Judge Advocate General of the appropriate armed force or in such other place as the Judge Advocate General or rule promulgated pursuant to § 150.26 may designate. If transmitted by mail or other means, they are not filed until received in such office.
§ 150.6
Signing of papers.
All formal papers shall be signed and shall show, typewritten or printed, the signer's name, address, military grade (if any), and the capacity in which the paper is signed. Such signature constitutes a certification that the statements made therein are true and correct to the best of the knowledge, information, and belief of the persons signing the paper and that the paper is filed in good faith and not for purposes of unnecessary delay.
§ 150.7
Computation of time.
In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this part, by order of the Court, or by any applicable statute, the day of the act, event or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, or, when the act to be done is the filing of a paper in court, a day on which the office of the Clerk of the Court is closed due to weather or other conditions or by order of the Chief Judge, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, nor a holiday.
§ 150.8
Qualification of counsel.
(a)
All counsel.
Counsel in any case before the Court shall be a member in good standing of the bar of a Federal Court, the highest court of a State or another recognized bar.
(b)
Military counsel.
Assigned appellate defense and appellate government counsel shall, in addition, be qualified in accordance with Articles 27(b)(1) and
70(a), Uniform Code of Military Justice.
(c)
Admission.
Each Court may license counsel to appear before it. Otherwise, upon entering an appearance, counsel shall be deemed admitted pro hac vice, subject to filing a certificate setting forth required qualifications if directed by the Court.
(d)
Suspension.
No counsel may appear in any proceeding before the Court while suspended from practice by the Judge Advocate General of the service concerned.
§ 150.9
Conduct of counsel.
The conduct of counsel appearing before the Court shall be in accordance with rules of conduct prescribed pursuant to Rule for Courts-Martial 109 by the Judge Advocate General of the service concerned. However, the Court may exercise its inherent power to regulate counsel appearing before it, including the power to remove counsel from a particular case for misconduct in relation to that case. Conduct deemed by the Court to warrant consideration of suspension from practice or other professional discipline shall be reported by the Court to the Judge Advocate General concerned.
§ 150.10
Request for appellate defense counsel.
An accused may be represented before the Court by appellate counsel detailed pursuant to Article 70(a) or by civilian counsel provided by the accused, or both. An accused who does not waive appellate review pursuant to Rule for Courts-Martial 1110 shall, within 10 days after service of a copy of the convening authority's action under Rule for Courts-Martial 1107(h), forward to the convening authority or the Judge Advocate General:
(a) A request for representation by military appellate defense counsel, or
(b) Notice that civilian counsel has been retained or that action has been taken to retain civilian counsel (must include name and address of civilian counsel), or
(c) Both a request for representation by military appellate defense counsel under paragraph (a) for this section and notice regarding civilian counsel under paragraph (b) of this section, or
(d) A waiver of representation by counsel.
§ 150.11
Assignment of counsel.
(a) When a record of trial is referred to the court—
(1) If the accused has requested representation by appellate defense counsel, pursuant to Article 70(c)(1), counsel detailed pursuant to Article 70(a) will be assigned to represented the accused; or
(2) If the accused gives notice that he or she has retained or has taken action to retain civilian counsel, appellate defense counsel shall be assigned to represent the interests of the accused pending appearance of civilian counsel. Assigned defense counsel will continue to assist after appearance by civilian counsel unless excused by the accused; or
(3) If the accused has neither requested appellate counsel nor given notice of action to retain civilian counsel, but has not waived representation by counsel, appellate defense counsel will be assigned to represent the accused, subject to excusal by the accused or by direction of the Court.
(b) In any case—
(1) The Court may request counsel when counsel have not been assigned.
(2) Pursuant to Article 70(c)(2), and subject to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, appellate defense counsel will represent the accused when the United States is represented by counsel before the Court.
§ 150.12
Retention of civilian counsel.
When civilian counsel represents an accused before the Court, the Court will notify counsel when the record of trial is received. If both civilian and assigned appellate defense counsel represent the accused, the Court will regard civilian counsel as primary counsel unless notified otherwise. Ordinarily, civilian counsel will use the accused's copy of the record. Civilian counsel may reproduce, at no expense to the government, appellate defense counsel's copy of the record.
§ 150.13
Notice of appearance of counsel.
Military and civilian appellate counsel shall file a written notice of appearance with the Court. The filing of any pleading relative to a case which contains the signature of counsel constitutes notice of appearance of such counsel.
§ 150.14
Waiver or withdrawal of appellate review.
Withdrawals from appellate review, and waivers of appellate review filed after expiration of the period prescribed by the Rule for Courts-Martial 1110(f)(1), will be referred to the Court for consideration. At its discretion, the Court may require the filing of a motion for withdrawal, issue a show cause order, or grant the withdrawal without further action, as may be appropriate. The Court will return the record of trial, in a case withdrawn from appellate review, to the Judge Advocate General for action pursuant to Rule for Courts-Martial 1112.
§ 150.15
Assignments of error and briefs.
(a)
General provisions.
Appellate counsel for the accused may file an assignment of error if any are to be alleged, setting forth separately each error asserted. The assignment of errors should be included in a brief for the accused in the format set forth in Appendix B to this part. An original of all assignments of error and briefs, and as many additional copies as shall be prescribed by the Court, shall be submitted. Briefs and assignments of errors shall be typed or printed, double-spaced on white paper, and securely fastened at the top. All references to matters contained in the record shall show record page numbers and any exhibit designations. A brief on behalf of the government shall be of like character as that prescribed for the accused.
(b)
Time for filing and number of briefs.
Any brief for an accused shall be filed within 60 days after appellate counsel has been notified of the receipt of the record in the Office of the Judge Advocate General. If the Judge Advocate General has directed appellate government counsel to represent the United States, such counsel shall file an answer on behalf of the government within 30 days after any brief and assignment of errors has been filed on behalf of an accused. Appellate counsel for an accused may file a reply brief no later than 7 days after the filing of a response brief on behalf of the government. If no brief is filed on behalf of an accused, a brief on behalf of the government may be filed within 30 days after expiration of the time allowed for the filing of a brief on behalf of the accused.
(c)
Appendix.
The brief of either party may include an appendix. If an unpublished opinion is cited in the brief, a copy shall be attached in an appendix. The appendix may also include extracts of statutes, rules, or regulations. A motion must be filed under § 150.23,
infra,
to attach any other matter.
§ 150.16
Oral arguments.
Oral arguments may be heard in the discretion of the Court upon motion by either party or when otherwise ordered by the Court. The motion of a party for oral argument shall be made no later than 7 days after the filing of an answer to an appellant's brief. Such motion shall identify the issue(s) upon which counsel seek argument. The Court may, on its own motion, identify the issue(s) upon which it wishes argument.
§ 150.17
En banc proceedings.
(a)(1) A party may suggest the appropriateness of consideration or reconsideration by the Court as a whole. Such consideration or reconsideration ordinarily will not be ordered except:
(i) When consideration by the full Court is necessary to secure or maintain uniformity of decision, or
(ii) When the proceedings involve a question of exceptional importance, or
(iii) When a sentence being reviewed pursuant to Article 66 extends to death.
(2) In cases being reviewed pursuant to Article 66, a party's suggestion that a matter be considered initially by the Court as a whole must be filed with the Court within 7 days after the government files its answer to the assignment of errors, or the appellant files a reply under § 150.15(b). In other proceedings, the suggestion must be filed with the party's initial petition or other initial
pleading, or within 7 days after the response thereto is filed. A suggestion for reconsideration by the Court as a whole must be made within the time prescribed by § 150.19 for filing a motion for reconsideration. No response to a suggestion for consideration or reconsideration by the Court as a whole may be filed unless the Court shall so order.
(b) The suggestion of a party for consideration or reconsideration by the Court as a whole shall be transmitted to each judge of the Court who is present for duty, but a vote need not be taken to determine whether the cause shall be considered or reconsidered by the Court as a whole on such a suggestion made by a party unless a judge requests a vote.
(c) A majority of the judges present for duty may order that any appeal or other proceeding be considered or reconsidered by the Court sitting as a whole. However, en banc reconsideration of an en banc decision will not be held unless at least one member of the original majority concurs in a vote for reconsideration.
(d) This rule does not affect the power of the Court
sua sponte
to consider or reconsider any case sitting as a whole.
§ 150.18
Orders and decisions of the Court.
The Court shall give notice of its orders and decisions by immediately serving them, when rendered, on appellate defense counsel, including civilian counsel, if any, government counsel and the Judge Advocate General, or designee, as appropriate.
§ 150.19
Reconsideration.
(a) The Court may, in its discretion and on its own motion, enter an order announcing its intent to reconsider its decision or order in any case not later than 30 days after service of such decision or order on appellate defense counsel or on the appellant, if the appellant is not represented by counsel, provided a petition for grant of review or certificate for review has not been filed with the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, or a record of trial for review under Article 67(b) has not been received by that Court. No briefs or arguments shall be received unless the order so directs.
(b) Provided a petition for grant of review or certificate for review has not been filed with the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, or a record of trial for review under Article 67(b) or writ appeal has not been received by the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, the Court may, in its discretion, reconsider its decision or order in any case upon motion filed either:
(1) By appellate defense counsel within 30 days after receipt by counsel, or by the appellant if the appellant is not represented by counsel, of a decision or order, or
(2) By appellate government counsel within 30 days after the decision or order is received by counsel.
(c) A motion for reconsideration shall briefly and directly state the grounds for reconsideration, including a statement of facts showing jurisdiction in the Court. A reply to the motion for reconsideration will be received by the Court only if filed within 7 days of receipt of a copy of the motion. Oral arguments shall not be heard on a motion for reconsideration unless ordered by the Court. The original of the motion filed with the Court shall indicate the date of receipt of a copy of the same by opposing counsel.
(d) The time limitations prescribed by this part shall not be extended under the authority of §§ 150.24 or 150.25 beyond the expiration of the time for filing a petition for review or writ appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, except that the time for filing briefs by either party may be extended for good cause.
§ 150.20
Petitions for extraordinary relief, answer, and reply.
(a)
Petition for extraordinary relief.
A petition for extraordinary relief in the number of copies required by the Court shall be accompanied by proof of service on each party respondent and will contain:
(1) A previous history of the case including whether prior actions have been filed or are pending for the same relief in this or any other court and the disposition or status of such actions;
(2) A concise and objective statement of all facts relevant to the issue presented and of any pertinent opinion, order or ruling;
(3) A copy of any pertinent parts of the record and all exhibits related to the petition if reasonably available and transmittable at or near the time the petition is filed;
(4) A statement of the issue;
(5) The specific relief sought;
(6) Reasons for granting the writ;
(7) The jurisdictional basis for relief sought and the reasons why the relief sought cannot be obtained during the ordinary course of appellate review;
(8) If desired, a request for appointment of appellate counsel.
(b)
Format.
The title of the petition shall include the name, military grade and service number of each named party and, where appropriate, the official military or civilian title of any named party acting in an official capacity as an officer or agent of the United States. When an accused has not been named as a party, the accused shall be identified by name, military grade and service number by the petitioner and shall be designated as the real party in interest.
(c)
Electronic petitions.
The Court will docket petitions for extraordinary relief submitted by electronic means. A petition submitted by electronic means will conclude with the full name and address of petitioner's counsel, if any, and will state when the written petition and brief, when required, were forwarded to the Court and to all named respondents, and by what means they were forwarded.
(d)
Notice to the Judge Advocate General.
Immediately upon receipt of any petition, the clerk shall forward a copy of the petition to the appropriate Judge Advocate General or designee.
(e)
Briefs.
Each petition for extraordinary relief must be accompanied by a brief in support of the petition unless it is filed in propria persona. The Court may issue a show cause order in which event the respondent shall file an answer within 10 days of the receipt of the show cause order. The petitioner may file a reply to the answer within 7 days of receipt of the answer.
(f)
Initial action by the Court.
The Court may dismiss or deny the petition, order the respondent to show cause and file an answer within the time specified, or take whatever other action it deems appropriate.
(g)
Oral argument and final action.
The Court may set the matter for oral argument. However, on the basis of the pleading alone, the Court may grant or deny the relief sought or make such other order in the case as the circumstances may require. This includes referring the matter to a special master, who need not be a military judge, to further investigate; to take evidence; and to make such recommendations as the Court deems appropriate.
§ 150.21
Appeals by the United States.
(a)
Restricted filing.
Only a representative of the government designated by the Judge Advocate General of the respective service may file an appeal by the United States under Article 62.
(b)
Counsel.
Counsel must be qualified and appointed, and give notice of appearance in accordance with this part and those of the Judge Advocate General concerned.
(c)
Form of appeal.
The appeal must include those documents specified by Rule for Courts-Martial 908 and by applicable regulations of the Secretary concerned. A certificate of the Notice of Appeal described in Rule for Courts-Martial 908(b)(3) must be included. The certificate of service must reflect the date and time of the military judge's ruling or order from which the appeal is taken, and the time and date of service upon the military judge.
(d)
Time for filing.
All procedural Rules of the Court shall apply except as noted in this paragraph:
(1) The representative of the government designated by the Judge Advocate General shall decide whether to file the appeal with the Court. The trial counsel shall have 20 days from the date written notice to appeal is filed with the trial court to forward the appeal, including an original and two copies of the record of trial, to the representative of the government designated by the Judge Advocate General. The person designated by the Judge Advocate General shall promptly file the original record with the Clerk of the Court and forward one copy to
opposing counsel. Appellate government counsel shall have 20 days (or more upon a showing of good cause made by motion for enlargement within the 20 days) from the date the record is filed with the Court to file the appeal with supporting brief with the Court. Should the government decide to withdraw the appeal after the record is received by the Court, appellate government counsel shall notify the Court in writing. Appellate brief(s) shall be prepared in the manner prescribed by § 150.15.
(2) Appellee shall prepare an answer in the manner prescribed by § 150.15 and shall file such answer within 20 days after any filing of the government brief.
(e) The government shall diligently prosecute all appeals by the United States and the Court will give such appeals priority over all other proceedings where practicable.
§ 150.22
Petitions for new trial.
(a) Whether submitted to the Judge Advocate General by the accused in propria persona or by counsel for the accused, a petition for new trial submitted while the accused's case is undergoing review by a Court of Criminal Appeals shall be filed with an original and two copies and shall comply with the requirements of Rule for Courts-Martial 1210(c).
(b) Upon receipt of a petition for new trial submitted by other than appellate defense counsel, the Court will notify all counsel of record of such fact.
(c) A brief in support of a petition for new trial, unless expressly incorporated in or filed with the petition, will be filed substantially in the format specified by § 150.15 no later than 30 days after the filing of the petition or receipt of the notice required by paragraph (b) of this section, whichever is later. An appellate's answer shall be filed no later than 30 days after the filing of an appellant's brief. A reply may be filed no later than 10 days after the filing of the appellee's answer.
§ 150.23
Motions.
(a)
Content.
All motions, unless made during the course of a hearing, shall state with particularity the relief sought and the grounds therefor. Motions, pleading, and other papers desired to be filed with the Court may be combined in the same document, with the heading indicating, for example “MOTION TO FILE (SUPPLEMENTAL ASSIGNMENT OF ERRORS) (CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION) (SUPPLEMENTAL PLEADING)”; or “ASSIGNMENT OF ERRORS AND MOTION TO FILE ATTACHED REPORT OF MEDICAL BOARD”.
(b)
Motions to attach documents.
If a party desires to attach a statement of a person to the record for consideration by the Court on any matter, such statement shall be made either as an affidavit or as an unsworn declaration under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746. All documents containing language other than English shall have, attached, a certified English translation.
(c)
Opposition.
Any opposition to a motion shall be filed within 7 days after receipt by the opposing party of service of the motion.
(d)
Leave to file.
Any pleading not authorized or required by this part, shall be accompanied by a motion for leave to file such pleading.
(e)
Oral argument.
Oral argument shall not normally be permitted on motions.
§ 150.24
Continuances and interlocutory matters.
Except as otherwise provided in § 150.19(d), the Court, in its discretion, may extend any time limits prescribed and may dispose of any interlocutory or other appropriate matter not specifically covered by this part, in such manner as may appear to be required for a full, fair, and expeditious consideration of the case. See § 150.4.
§ 150.25
Suspension of rules.
For good cause shown, the Court acting as a whole or in panel may suspend the requirements or provisions of any of this part in a particular case on petition of a party or on its own motion and may order proceedings in accordance with its direction.
§ 150.26
Internal rules.
The Chief Judge of the Court has the authority to prescribe internal rules for the Court.
§ 150.27
Recording, photographing, broadcasting, or telecasting of hearings.
The recording, photographing, broadcasting, or televising of any session of the Court or other activity relating thereto is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the Court.
§ 150.28
Amendments.
Proposed amendments to this part may be submitted to the Chief Judge of any Court named in § 150.1 or to a Judge Advocate General. Before acting on any proposed amendments not received from the Chief Judges, the Judge Advocates General shall refer them to the Chief Judges of the Courts for comment. The Chief Judges shall confer on any proposed changes, and shall report to the Judge Advocates General as to the suitability of proposed changes and their impact on the operation of the Courts and on appellate justice.
Pt. 150, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 150—Format for Direction for Review in a Court of Criminal Appeals

# In the United States ____________
1

# Court of Criminal Appeals
United States v.
(Full
typed name, rank, service,
service number of accused)
1
Use “Army,” “Navy-Marine Corps,” “Air Force,” or “Coast Guard,” as applicable.
Direction for Review Case No. ________
Tried at (location), on (date(s)) before a (type in court-martial) appointed by (convening authority)

# To the Honorable, the Judges of the United States ____________ Court of Criminal Appeals
1. Pursuant to Article 69 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. § 869 (1994) and the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Courts of Criminal Appeals, Rule 2(b), the record of trial in the above-entitled case is forwarded for review.
2. The accused was found guilty by a (type of court-martial) of a violation of Article(s) ________ of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and was sentenced to (include entire adjudged sentence) on (insert trial date). The convening authority (approved the sentence as adjudged) (approved the following findings and sentence: ____________). The officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction (where applicable) took the following action: ____________. The case was received for review pursuant to Article 69 on (date).
3. In review, pursuant to Uniform Code of Military Justice, Article 66, it is requested that action be taken with respect to the following issues:
[set out issues here]
The Judge Advocate General
Received a copy of the foregoing Direction for Review this ____________ (date).
Appellate Government Counsel
Address and telephone number
Appellate Defense Counsel
Address and telephone number
Pt. 150, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 150—Format for Assignment of Errors and Brief on Behalf of Accused (§ 150.15)

# In the United States ____________
2

# Court of Criminal Appeals
United States v.
(Full
typed name, rank, service,
service number of accused), Appellant
2
Use “Army,” “Navy-Marine Corps,” “Air Force,” or “Coast Guard,” as applicable.
Assignment of Errors and Brief on Behalf of Accused Case No. ________
Tried at (location), on (date(s)) before a (type of court-martial) appointed by (convening authority)

# To the Honorable, the Judges of the United States ____________ Court of Criminal Appeals

# Statement of the Case
[Set forth a concise summary of the chronology of the case, including the general nature of the charges, the pleas of the accused, the findings and sentence at trial, the action by the convening authority, and any other pertinent information regarding the proceedings.]

# Statement of Facts
[Set forth those facts necessary to a disposition of the assigned errors, including specific page references and exhibit numbers. Answers may adopt appellant's or petitioner's statement of facts if there is no dispute, may state additional facts, or, if there is a dispute, may restate the facts as they appear from appellee's or respondent's viewpoint. The repetition of uncontroverted matters is not desired.]

# Errors and Argument
[Set forth each error alleged in upper case letters, followed by separate arguments for each error. Arguments shall discuss briefly the question presented, citing and quoting such authorities as are deemed pertinent. Each argument shall include a statement of the applicable standard of review, and shall be followed by a specific prayer for the relief requested.]

# Appendix
[The brief of either party may include an appendix containing copies of unpublished opinions cited in the brief, and extracts of statutes, rules or regulations pertinent to the assigned errors.]
(Signature of counsel)
Name (and rank) of counsel, address and telephone number

# Certificate of Filing and Service
I certify that a copy of the foregoing was mailed or delivered to the Court and opposing counsel on (date).
Name (rank) (and signature)
Address and telephone number
____________________ (Date)
Pt. 151

# PART 151—FOREIGN CRIMINAL AND CIVIL JURISDICTION
Sec.
151.1
Purpose.
151.2
Applicability.
151.3
Definitions.
151.4
Policy.
151.5
Responsibilities.
151.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. chapter 47, 10 U.S.C. 1037.

# Source:
84 FR 18384, May 1, 2019, unless otherwise noted.
§ 151.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures, supplemental to those provided in DoD Instruction 5525.01, “Foreign Criminal and Civil Jurisdiction,” which will be made available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/issuances/dodi/,
concerning trial by foreign criminal courts of, treatment in foreign prisons of, and the payment of counsel fees in certain civil cases for the following individuals, referred to collectively in this part as “dependents of DoD personnel,” when those individuals are in a foreign country as a result of accompanying DoD personnel who are assigned duty in that country:
(a) Command-sponsored and non-command sponsored dependents of Armed Forces members;
(b) Dependents of nationals and non-nationals of the United States who are serving with or accompanying the Military Services (referred to in this rule as “non-military DoD personnel”) in an area outside the United States and its territories and possessions, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (referred to collectively in this rule as “outside the United States”);
(c) Dependents of DoD personnel serving under a U.S. Chief of Mission are not considered to be “dependents of DoD personnel” for the purposes of this part.
§ 151.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including the Coast Guard at all times, including when it is a Service in the Department of Homeland Security by agreement with that Department), the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD.
§ 151.3
Definitions.
These terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
Armed Forces.
As set forth in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(4), the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard.
Designated commanding officer (DCO).
The military officer who is designated by the appropriate geographic Combatant Commander to fulfill the duties outlined in this part.
DoD personnel.
Armed Forces members and non-military DoD personnel. Armed Forces members and non-military DoD personnel serving under a
U.S. Chief of Mission are not considered to be “DoD personnel” as defined in this part.
Non-military DoD personnel.
Nationals and non-nationals of the United States who are serving with or accompanying the Armed Forces in an area outside the United States and its territories and possessions, the northern Mariana Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
§ 151.4
Policy.
(a) The Department of Defense will, for dependents of DoD personnel when those dependents are in a foreign country accompanying DoD personnel who are assigned duty to that foreign country:
(1) Maximize the exercise of U.S. jurisdiction to the extent permissible under applicable status of forces agreements or other forms of jurisdiction arrangements.
(2) Protect, to the maximum extent possible, the rights of dependents of DoD personnel who may be subject to criminal trial by foreign courts and imprisonment in foreign prisons.
(3) Secure, where possible, the release of an accused to the custody of U.S. authorities pending completion of all foreign judicial proceedings.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 151.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Secretaries of the Military Departments ensure the adequacy of regulations in establishing an information and education policy on the laws and customs of the host country for dependents of DoD personnel assigned to foreign areas.
(b) For each country in their respective assigned area of responsibility (AOR), the geographic Combatant Commanders:
(1) Oversee Command implementation of the procedures in this part.
(2) Oversee DCO responsibilities, as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(c)
DCO responsibilities.
The DCOs:
(1) Are responsible for formal invocation, where applicable, of the Senate resolution procedure in each foreign country where dependents of DoD personnel are present, consistent with the U.S. Senate Resolution of Ratification, with reservations, to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement, as agreed to by the Senate on July 15, 1953.
(2) In cooperation with the appropriate U.S. Chief of Mission and to the maximum extent possible, ensure dependents of DoD personnel receive the same treatment, rights, and support as Armed Forces members when in the custody of foreign authorities, or when confined (pre-trial and post-trial) in foreign penal institutions. DCOs will work with the appropriate U.S. Chief of Mission to make appropriate diplomatic contacts for dependents of DoD personnel who are not U.S. nationals.
(3) Report informally and immediately to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, the applicable geographic Combatant Commander, and the General Counsel and the Judge Advocate General of the respective Military Department or, in the case of the U.S. Marine Corps (USMC), to the General Counsel of the Navy and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or, in the case of the Coast Guard, the Judge Advocate General of the Coast Guard, about important new cases or important developments in pending cases. Important cases include, but are not limited to, instances of denial of the procedural safeguards under any applicable agreement; deficiency in the treatment or conditions of confinement in foreign penal institutions; or arbitrary denial of permission to visit dependents of DoD personnel.
(4) Take additional steps that may be authorized under relevant international agreements with the receiving State to implement the policy of this part.
§ 151.6
Procedures.
(a)
Request to foreign authorities not to exercise their criminal and civil jurisdiction over dependents.
The procedures in this section will be followed when it appears that foreign authorities may exercise criminal jurisdiction over dependents of DoD personnel:
(1) When the DCO determines, after a careful consideration of all the circumstances, including consultation with the Department of Justice where
the matter involves possible prosecution in U.S. civilian courts, that suitable action can be taken under existing U.S. laws or administrative regulations, the DCO may request the local foreign authorities to waive the exercise of criminal jurisdiction.
(2) When it appears possible that the accused may not obtain a fair trial, the commander exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the command to which such persons are attached or with which they are associated will communicate directly with the DCO, reporting the full facts of the case. The DCO will then determine, in the light of legal procedures in effect in that country, if there is a risk that the accused will not receive a fair trial. If the DCO determines that there is a risk that the accused will not receive a fair trial, the DCO will decide, after consultation with the U.S. Chief of Mission, whether a request should be submitted through diplomatic channels to foreign authorities seeking their assurances of a fair trial for the accused or, in appropriate circumstances, that they waive the exercise of jurisdiction over the accused. If the DCO so decides, a recommendation will be submitted through the geographic Combatant Commander and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the Secretary of Defense. Copies must be provided to the Secretary concerned and the GC DoD.
(b)
Trial observers and trial observers' reports.
(1) U.S. observers at trials before courts of the receiving country (referred to in this section as “trial observers”) must attend and prepare formal reports in all cases of trials by foreign courts or tribunals of dependents of DoD personnel, except for minor offenses. In cases of minor offenses, the observer will attend the trial at the discretion of the DCO, but will not be required to make a formal report.
(i) Unless directed by the DCO, trial observers are not required to attend all preliminary proceedings, such as scheduling hearings, but will attend the trial on the merits and other pre- and post-trial proceedings where significant procedural or substantive matters are decided.
(ii) Trial observer reports regarding dependents of DoD personnel will be handled and processed pursuant to DoD Instruction 5525.01(4)(b-c).
(2) The DCO, upon receipt of a trial observer report, will be responsible for determining whether:
(i) There was any failure to comply with the procedural safeguards secured by the pertinent status of forces agreement.
(ii) The accused received a fair trial under all the circumstances. Due regard should be given to those fair trial rights listed in DoD Instruction 5525.01 “Foreign Criminal and Civil Jurisdiction,” Enclosure 5, “Fair Trial Guarantees” that are relevant to the particular facts and circumstances of the trial. A trial will not be determined to be unfair merely because it is not conducted in a manner identical to trials held in the United States.
(A) If the DCO believes that the procedural safeguards specified in pertinent agreements were denied or that the trial was otherwise unjust, the DCO will submit a recommendation as to appropriate action to rectify the trial deficiencies and otherwise to protect the rights or interests of the accused. This recommendation must include a statement of efforts taken or to be taken at the local level to protect the rights of the accused.
(B) The DCO will submit the recommendation to the Secretary of Defense, through the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (with an advance copy to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense); copies must be provided to the geographic Combatant Commander concerned, the General Counsel and the Judge Advocate General of the Military Department concerned or, in the case of the USMC, to the General Counsel of the Navy and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or, in the case of the Coast Guard, the Judge Advocate General of the Coast Guard, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(c)
Counsel fees and related assistance for U.S. personnel not subject to the UCMJ.
In cases of exceptional interest to the Military Department concerned or the Department of Homeland Security involving non-military DoD personnel, the Secretary of that Military
Department or the Secretary of Homeland Security may approve, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1037, under the following circumstances:
(1)
Criminal cases.
Requests for the provision of counsel fees and payment of expenses in criminal cases may be approved in pre-trial, trial, appellate, and post-trial proceedings in any criminal case where:
(i) The sentence that is normally imposed includes confinement, whether or not such sentence is suspended;
(ii) Capital punishment might be imposed;
(iii) An appeal is made from any proceeding in which there appears to have been a denial of the substantial rights of the accused;
(iv) The case, although not within the criteria established in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, is considered to have significant impact on U.S. interests, including upon the relations of the Armed Forces with the host country.
(2)
Civil cases.
Requests for provision of counsel fees and payment of expenses in civil cases may be granted in trial and appellate proceedings in civil cases where the case is considered to have a significant impact on the relations of the Armed Forces with the host country; or in cases brought against eligible non-military DoD personnel (and in exceptional cases, by such personnel) if the case is considered to involve any other U.S. interest.
(3)
Funding restrictions.
(i) No funds will be provided under this part in cases where the U.S. Government is—in actuality or in legal effect—the plaintiff or the defendant; all such cases shall be referred to the Department of Justice, Office of Foreign Litigation. No funds will be provided under this part in cases where the non-military DoD personnel member is a plaintiff without prior authorization of the Secretary of the Military Department concerned or the Secretary of Homeland Security. The provisions of this paragraph also are applicable to proceedings with civil aspects that are brought by eligible personnel as criminal cases in accordance with local law. Funds for the posting of bail or bond to secure the release of non-military DoD personnel from confinement will be used as provided by applicable Armed Force regulations.
(ii) No funds will be provided under paragraph (c)(2) of this section to a plaintiff who, if successful, will receive an award, in whole or in part, from the United States.
(iii) As provided for in 10 U.S.C. 1037, a person on whose behalf a payment is made under this provision is not liable to reimburse the United States for that payment, unless he or she is responsible for the forfeiture of bail provided for him or her under this provision.
(d)
Treatment of dependents confined in foreign penal institutions.
In cooperation with the appropriate U.S. Chief of Mission and to the maximum extent possible, military commanders will ensure that dependents of DoD personnel receive the same treatment, rights, and support as would be extended to Armed Forces members when in the custody of foreign authorities, or when confined (pretrial and post-trial) in foreign penal institutions. Commanders will work with the appropriate U.S. Chief of Mission to make appropriate diplomatic contacts for the categories of dependents described in this section who are not U.S. nationals.
(e)
Information policy.
The general public and the Congress must be provided promptly with the maximum information concerning status of forces matters that are consistent with the national interest. Information will be coordinated and provided to the public and the Congress in accordance with established procedures, including those in DoD Directive 5122.05, “Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (ATSD(PA))” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/512205_dodd_2017.pdf?ver=2017-08-07-125832-023
), 32 CFR part 286, 32 CFR part 310, and DoD Instruction 5400.04, “Provision of Information to Congress” (available at
http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/540004p.pdf
).
Pt. 152

# PART 152—REVIEW OF THE MANUAL FOR COURTS-MARTIAL
Sec.
152.1
Purpose.
152.2
Applicability.
152.3
Policy.
152.4
Responsibilities.
152.5
Implementation.
Appendix A to Part 152—Guidance to the Joint Service Committee (JSC)

# Authority:
E.O. 12473; 10 U.S.C. 47.

# Source:
68 FR 36916, June 20, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 152.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Implements the requirement established by the President in Executive Order 12473 that the Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM), United States, 1984, and subsequent editions, be reviewed annually.
(b) Formalizes the Joint Service Committee (JSC) and defines the roles, responsibilities, and procedures of the JSC in reviewing and proposing changes to the MCM and proposing legislation to amend the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) (10 U.S.C., Chapter 47).
(c) Provides for the designation of a Secretary of a Military Department to serve as the Executive Agent for the JSC.
§ 152.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including the Coast Guard by agreement with the Department of Homeland Security when it is not operating as a Service of the Department of the Navy), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the Department of Defense (hereafter collectively referred to as “the DoD Components”).
§ 152.3
Policy.
To assist the President in fulfilling his responsibilities under the UCMJ, and to satisfy the requirements of Executive Order 12473, the Department of Defense shall review the Manual for Courts-Martial annually, and, as appropriate, propose legislation amending the UCMJ to ensure that the MCM and the UCMJ fulfill their fundamental purpose as a comprehensive body of military criminal law and procedure. The role of the JSC furthers these responsibilities. Under the direction of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, the JSC is responsible for reviewing the MCM and proposing amendments to it and, as necessary, to the UCMJ.
§ 152.4
Responsibilities.
(a) The General Counsel to the Department of Defense shall:
(1) Administer this part, to include coordination on and approval of legislative proposals to amend the UCMJ, approval of the annual review of the MEM, and coordination of any proposed changes to the MCM under OMB Circular A-19.
1
1
Available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/index.html.
(2) Designate the Secretary of a Military Department to serve as the joint Service provider for the JSC. The joint Service provider shall act on behalf of the JSC for maintaining the JSC's files and historical records, and for publication of the updated editions of the MCM to be distributed throughout the Department of Defense, as appropriate.
(3) Invite the Secretary of Homeland Security to appoint representatives to the JSC.
(4) Invite the Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces to provide a staff member to serve as an advisor to the JSC.
(5) Invite the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to provide a staff member from the Chairman's Office of Legal Counsel to serve as an advisor to the JSC.
(6) Ensure that the Associate Deputy General Counsel (Military Justice and Personnel Policy), Office of the General Counsel, Department of Defense, shall serve as the General Counsel's representative to the JSC in a non-voting capacity. In addition, the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (USCAAF) and the Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall be invited to provide a staff member to serve as an advisor to the JSC in a non-voting capacity.
(b) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall ensure that the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the
Marine Corps appoint representatives to the JSC.
(c) The JSC shall further the DoD policy established in section 3 of this part and perform additional studies or other duties related to the administration of military justice, as the General Counsel of the Department of Defense may direct. (See DoD Directive 5105.18, “DoD Committee Management Program”.
2
) The membership of the JSC shall consist of one representative of each of the following, who shall comprise the JSC Voting Group:
2
Available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives.
(1) The Judge Advocate General of the Army.
(2) The Judge Advocate General of the Navy.
(3) The Judge Advocate General of the Air Force.
(4) The Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps; and
(5) By agreement with the Department of Homeland Security, the Chief Counsel, United States Coast Guard.
(d) The JSC Working Group (WG) shall assist the JSC Voting Group in fulfilling its responsibilities under this part. The WG consists of non-voting representatives from each of the Services and may include the representatives from the USCAAF, and the Office of the Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
(e) The JSC chairmanship rotates biennially among the Services in the following order: The Army, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Navy, and the Coast Guard. Due to its size and manning constraints, a Coast Guard's request not to be considered for JSC chairmanship shall be honored. The Military Service of the JSC Chairman shall provide an Executive Secretary for the JSC.
§ 152.5
Implementation.
The foregoing policies and procedures providing guidelines for implementation of this part, as well as those contained in the appendix, are intended exclusively for the guidance of military personnel and civilian employees of the Department of Defense, and the United States Coast Guard by agreement of the Department of Homeland Security. These guidelines are intended to improve the internal management of the Federal Government and are not intended to create any right, privilege, or benefit, substantive of procedural, to any person or enforceable at law by any party against the United States, its agencies, its officers, or any person.
Pt. 152, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 152—Guidance to the Joint Service Committee (JSCA)
(a)
Review the Manual for Courts-Martial.
(1) The Joint Service Committee (JSC) shall conduct an annual review of the Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM), in light of judicial and legislative developments in military and civilian practice, to ensure:
(i) The MCM implements the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) and reflects current military practice and judicial precedent.
(ii) The rules and procedures of the MCM are uniform insofar as practicable.
(iii) The MCM applies, to the extent practicable, the principles of law and the rules of evidence generally recognized in the trial of criminal cases in United States district courts, but which are not contrary to or inconsistent with the UCMJ.
(iv) The MCM is workable throughout the worldwide jurisdiction of the UCMJ; and,
(v) The MCM is workable across the spectrum of circumstances in which courts-martial are conducted, including combat conditions.
(2) During this review, any JSC voting member may propose for the Voting Group's consideration an amendment to the MCM. Proposed amendments to the MCM shall ordinarily be referred to the JSC Working Group (WG) for study. The WG assists the JSC in staffing various proposals, conducting studies of proposals and other military justice related topics at the JSC's direction, and making reports to the JSC. Any proposed amendment to the MCM, if approved by a majority of the JSC voting members, becomes a part of the annual review.
(3) The JSC shall prepare a draft of the annual review of the MCM and forward it to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, on or about December 31st. The General Counsel of the Department of Defense may submit the draft of the annual review to the Code Committee established by Article 146 of the UCMJ, with an invitation to submit comments.
(4) The draft of the annual review shall set forth any specific recommendations for changes to the MCM, including, if not adequately addressed in the accompanying discussion or analysis, a concise statement of the basis and purpose of any proposed change. If no changes are recommended, the
draft review shall so state. If the JSC recommends changes to the MCM, the draft review shall so state. If the JSC recommends changes to the MCM, the public notice procedures of paragraph (d)(3) of this appendix are applicable.
(b)
Changes to the Manual for Courts-Martial.
(1) By January 1st of each year, the JSC voting members shall ensure that a solicitation for proposed changes to the MCM is sent to appropriate agencies within their respective Services that includes, but is not limited to, the judiciary, the trial counsel and defense counsel organizations, and the judge advocate general schools.
(2) The
Federal Register
announcement of each year's annual review of proposed changes to the MCM shall also invite members of the public to submit any new proposals for JSC consideration during subsequent JSC annual reviews.
(3) When the JSC receives proposed changes to the MCM either by solicitation or
Federal Register
notice, the JSC shall determine whether the proposal should be considered under paragraph (a)(2) of this appendix by determining if one or more of the JSC voting member(s) intends to sponsor the proposed change. The JSC shall determine when such sponsored proposals should be considered under the annual review process, taking into account any other proposals under consideration and any other reviews or studies directed by the General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
(4) Changes to the MCM shall be proposed as part of the annual review conducted under paragraph (a) of this appendix. When earlier implementation is required, the JSC may send proposed changes to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, for coordination under DoD Directive 5500.1.
3
3
Available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives.
(c)
Proposals to Amend the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
The JSC may determine that the efficient administration of military justice within the Armed Services requires amendments to the UCMJ, or that a desired amendment to the MCM makes necessary an amendment to the UCMJ. In such cases, the JSC shall forward to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, a legislative proposal to change the UCMJ. The General Counsel of the Department of Defense may direct that the JSC forward any such legislative proposal to the Code Committee for its consideration under Article 146, UCMJ.
(d)
Public Notice and Meeting.
(1) Proposals to amend the UCMJ are not governed by the procedures set out in this paragraph. (See DoD Directive 5105. 18. This paragraph applies only to the JSC recommendations to amend the MCM.)
(2) It is DoD policy to encourage public participation in the JSC's review of the MCM. Notice that the Department of Defense, through the JSC, intends to propose changes to the MCM normally shall be published in the
Federal Register
before submission of such changes to the President. This notice is not required when the Secretary of Defense in his sole and unreviewable discretion proposes that the President issue the change without such notice on the basis that public notice procedures, as set forth in this part, are unnecessary or contrary to the sound administration of military justice, or a MCM change corresponding to legislation is expeditiously required to keep the MCM current and consistent with changes in applicable law.
(3) The Office of General Counsel of the Department of Defense shall facilitate publishing the
Federal Register
notice required under this paragraph.
(4) The notice under this paragraph shall consist of the publication of the full text of the proposed changes, including discussion and analysis, unless the General Counsel of the Department of Defense determines that such publication in full would unduly burden the
Federal Register,
the time and place where a copy of the proposed change may be examined, and the procedure for obtaining access to or a copy of the proposed change.
(5) A period of not fewer than 60 days after publication of notice normally shall be allowed for public comment, but a shorter period may be authorized when the General Counsel of the Department of Defense determines that a 60-day period is unnecessary or is contrary to the sound administration of military justice. The
Federal Register
notice shall normally indicate that public comments shall be submitted to the Executive Secretary of the JSC.
(6) The JSC shall provide notice in the
Federal Register
and hold a public meeting during the public comments period, where interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to submit views on any of the proposed changes contained in the annual review. Public proposals and comments to the JSC should include a reference to the specific provision to be changed, a rational for the proposed change, and specific and detailed proposed language to replace the current language. Incomplete submissions might be insufficient to receive the consideration desired. The JSC shall seek to consider all views presented at the public meeting as well as any written comments submitted during the 60-day period when determining the final form of any proposed amendments to the MCM.
(E)
Internal Rules and Record-Keeping.
(1) In furthering DoD policy, studying issues, or performing other duties relating to the administration of military justice, the JSC
may establish internal rules governing its operation.
(2) The JSC shall create a file system and maintain appropriate JSC records.
Pt. 153

# PART 153—CRIMINAL JURISDICTION OVER CIVILIANS EMPLOYED BY OR ACCOMPANYING THE ARMED FORCES OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, CERTAIN SERVICE MEMBERS, AND FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS
Sec.
153.1
Purpose.
153.2
Applicability and scope.
153.3
Definitions.
153.4
Responsibilities.
153.5
Procedures.
Appendix A to Part 153—Guidelines
Appendix B to Part 153—Acknowledgement of Limited Legal Representation (Sample)

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
71 FR 8947, Feb. 22, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 153.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Implements policies and procedures, and assigns responsibilities under the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000, as amended by section 1088 of the “Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005,” October 28, 2004 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”) for exercising extraterritorial criminal jurisdiction over certain military personnel, former service members of the United States Armed Forces, and over civilians employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States (U.S.).
(b) Implements section 3266 of the Act.
§ 153.2
Applicability and scope.
(a) This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including the Coast Guard by agreement with the Department of Homeland Security when it is not operating as a Service of the Department of the Navy), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as “the DoD Components”). The term “Military Services,” as used herein, refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps.
(b)
Coast Guard.
The Coast Guard ordinarily operates as a separate branch of the Armed Forces in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). However, upon Presidential Directive, the Coast Guard operates as a Service within the Department of the Navy and becomes part of the Department of Defense. By agreement with the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, when the Coast Guard is operating as a separate Service within the DHS, this part shall apply to the Coast Guard to the extent permitted by the Act. Whether a provision of this Instruction applies to a Coast Guard case is determined by whether the Coast Guard is operating as a Service in the DHS or as a Service within the Department of the Navy.
(c) While some Federal criminal statutes are expressly or implicitly extraterritorial, many acts described therein are criminal only if they are committed within “the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States” or if they affect interstate or foreign commerce. Therefore, in most instances, Federal criminal jurisdiction ends at the nation's borders. State criminal jurisdiction, likewise, normally ends at the boundaries of each State. Because of these limitations, acts committed by military personnel, former service members, and civilians employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces in foreign countries, which would be crimes if committed in the U.S., often do not violate either Federal or State criminal law. Similarly, civilians are generally not subject to prosecution under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), unless Congress had declared a “time of war” when the acts were committed. As a result, these acts are crimes, and therefore criminally punishable, only under the law of the foreign country in which they occurred. See section 2 of Report Accompanying the Act (Report to Accompany H.R. 3380, House of Representatives Report 106-778, July 20,
2000 hereafter referred to as “the Report Accompanying the Act”). While the U.S. could impose administrative discipline for such actions, the Act and this part are intended to address the jurisdictional gap with respect to criminal sanctions.
(d) Nothing in this part may be construed to deprive a court-martial, military commission, provost court, or other military tribunal of concurrent jurisdiction with respect to offenders or offenses that by statute or the law of war may be tried by court-martial, military commission, provost court, or other military tribunal (Section 3261(c) of title 18). In some cases, conduct that violates section 3261(a) of the Act may also violate the UCMJ, or the law of war generally. Therefore, for military personnel, military authorities would have concurrent jurisdiction with a U.S. District Court to try the offense. The Act was not intended to divest the military of jurisdiction and recognizes the predominant interest of the military in disciplining its service members, while still allowing for the prosecution of members of the Armed Forces with non-military co-defendants in a U.S. District Court under section 3261(d) of the Act.
(e) This part, including its enclosures, is intended exclusively for the guidance of military personnel and civilian employees of the Department of Defense, and of the United States Coast Guard by agreement with the Department of Homeland Security. Nothing contained herein creates or extends any right, privilege, or benefit to any person or entity. See
United States
v.
Caceres,
440 U.S. 741 (1979).
§ 153.3
Definitions.
Accompanying the Armed Forces Outside the United States.
As defined in section 3267 of the Act, the dependent of:
(1) A member of the Armed Forces; or
(2) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department); or
(3) A DoD contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier); or
(4) An employee of a DoD contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier); and
(5) Residing with such member, civilian employee, contractor, or contractor employee outside the United States; and
(6) Not a national of or ordinarily resident in the host nation.
Active Duty.
Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States. It includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in the active military service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned. See section 101(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code.
Armed Forces.
The Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard. See section 101(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code.
Arrest.
To be taken into physical custody by law enforcement officials.
Charged.
As used in the Act and this part, this term is defined as an indictment or the filing of information against a person under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. See the analysis to Section 3264 of the Report Accompanying the Act.
Civilian Component.
A person or persons employed by the Armed Forces outside the United States, as defined in this section and section 3267(a)(1), as amended, of the Act. A term used in Status of Forces Agreements.
Dependent.
A person for whom a member of the Armed Forces, civilian employee, contractor (or subcontractor at any tier) has legal responsibility while that person is residing outside the United States with or accompanying that member of the Armed Forces, civilian employee, contractor (or subcontractor at any tier), and while that responsible person is so assigned, employed or obligated to perform a contractual obligation to the Department of Defense. For purposes of this part, a person's “command sponsorship” status while outside the United States is not to be considered in determining whether the person is a dependent within the meaning of this part, except that there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a command-sponsored individual is a dependent.
Designated Commanding Officer (DCO).
A single military commander in each foreign country where U.S. Forces are
stationed and as contemplated by DoD Directive 5525.1, Status of Forces Policy and Information.
Detention.
To be taken into custody by law enforcement officials and placed under physical restraint.
District.
A District Court of the United States.
Employed by the Armed Forces Outside the United States.
Any person employed as:
(1) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department); or
(2) A civilian employee of any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas; or
(3) A contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense); or
(4) A contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas; or
(5) An employee of a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense); or
(6) An employee of a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas; and, when the person:
(i) Is present or resides outside the United States in connection with such employment; and
(ii) Is not a national of or ordinarily resident in the host nation.
Federal Magistrate Judge.
As used in the Act and this part, this term includes both Judges of the United States and U.S. Magistrate Judges, titles that, in general, should be given their respective meanings found in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. (See footnote 32 of the Report Accompanying the Act) The term does not include Military Magistrates or Military Judges, as prescribed by the UCMJ, or regulations of the Military Departments or the Department of Defense.
Felony Offense.
Conduct that is an offense punishable by imprisonment for more than one year if the conduct had been engaged in the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States. See sections 3261 of the Act and 18 U.S.C. 7. Although the Act, uses the conditional phrase “if committed within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States,” acts that would be a Federal crime regardless of where they are committed in the U.S., such as drug crimes contained in chapter 13 of title 21, United States Code, also fall within the scope of section 3261(a) of the Act. See the analysis to section 3261 of the Report Accompanying the Act.
Host Country National.
A person who is not a citizen of the United States, but who is a citizen of the foreign country in which that person is located.
Inactive Duty Training.
Duty prescribed for Reservists by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned under section 206 of title 37, United States Code, or any other provision of law; and special additional duties authorized for Reservists by an authority designated by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned and performed by them on a voluntary basis in connection with the prescribed training or maintenance activities of the units to which they are assigned. Inactive Duty Training includes those duties performed by Reservists in their status as members of the National Guard while in Federal service. See section 101(d)(7) of title 10, United States Code.
Juvenile.
A person who has not attained his or her eighteenth birthday, as defined in section 5031 of title 18, United States Code.
Military Department.
The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force. See section 101(a)(8) of title 10, United States Code.
National of the United States.
As defined in section 1101(a)(22), of title 8, United States Code.
Outside the United States.
Those places that are not within the definition of “United States” below and, with the exception of subparagraph 7(9), those geographical areas and locations that are not within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States, as defined in sections 7 of title 18, United States Code. The locations defined in subparagraph 7(9) of title 18, United States Code are to be considered “Outside the United States” for the purposes of this part. See 3261-3267 of title 18, United States Code.
Qualified Military Counsel.
Judge advocates assigned to or employed by the Military Services and designated by the respective Judge Advocate General, or a designee, to be professionally qualified and trained to perform defense counsel responsibilities under the Act.
Staff Judge Advocate.
A judge advocate so designated in the Army, the Air Force, the Marine Corps, or the Coast Guard; the principal legal advisor of a command in the Navy who is a judge advocate, regardless of job title. See Rule for Courts-Martial 103(17), Manual for Courts-Martial, United States (2002 Edition).
Third Country National.
A person whose citizenship is that of a country other than the U.S. and the foreign country in which the person is located.
United States.
As defined in section 5 of title 18, United States Code, this term, as used in a territorial sense, includes all places and waters, continental or insular, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, except for the Panama Canal Zone.
§ 153.4
Responsibilities.
(a) The
General Counsel of the Department of Defense
shall provide initial coordination and liaison with the Departments of Justice and State, on behalf of the Military Departments, regarding a case for which investigation and/or Federal criminal prosecution under the Act is contemplated. This responsibility may be delegated entirely, or delegated for categories of cases, or delegated for individual cases. The General Counsel, or designee, shall advise the Domestic Security Section of the Criminal Division, Department of Justice (DSS/DOJ), as soon as practicable, when DoD officials intend to recommend that the DOJ consider the prosecution of a person subject to the Act for offenses committed outside the United States. The Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice, has designated the Domestic Security Section (DSS/DOJ) as the Section responsible for the Act.
(b) The
Inspector General of the Department of Defense
shall:
(1) Pursuant to Section 4(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), “report expeditiously to the Attorney General whenever the Inspector General has reasonable grounds to believe there has been a violation of Federal criminal law.” This statutory responsibility is generally satisfied once an official/special agent of the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense notifies either the cognizant Department of Justice representative or the Assistant Attorney General (Criminal Division) of the “reasonable grounds.”
(2) Pursuant to Section 8(c)(5) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended (5 U.S.C. App. 3), and 10 U.S.C. 141(b), ensure the responsibilities described in DoD Directive 5525.7, “Implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding Between the Department of Justice and the Department of Defense Relating to the Investigation and Prosecution of Certain Crimes,” January 22, 1985,
1
to “implement the investigative policies [,m]onitor compliance by DoD criminal investigative organizations [, and p]rovide specific guidance regarding investigative matters, as appropriate” are satisfied relative to violations of the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000.
1
Available from Internet site
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives.
(c) The
Heads of Military Law Enforcement Organizations and Military Criminal Investigative Organizations, or their Designees,
shall:
(1) Advise the Commander and Staff Judge Advocate (or Legal Advisor) of the Combatant Command concerned, or designees, of an investigation of an alleged violation of the Act. Such notice
shall be provided as soon as practicable. In turn, the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, or designee, shall be advised so as to ensure notification of and consultation with the Departments of Justice and State regarding information about the potential case, including the host nation's position regarding the case. At the discretion of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, other agencies and organizations (such as the Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretary of the Military Department that sponsored the person into the foreign country) shall be informed, as appropriate. Effective investigations lead to successful prosecutions and, therefore, these cases warrant close coordination and cooperation between the Departments of Defense, Justice, and State.
(2) Provide briefings to, and coordinate with, appropriate local law enforcement authorities in advance or, if not possible, as soon thereafter as is practicable, of investigations or arrests in specific cases brought under the Act. If not previously provided to local law enforcement authorities, such briefings about the case shall, at a minimum, describe the Host Nation's position regarding the exercise of jurisdiction under the Act that followed from any briefings conducted pursuant to appendix A of this part.
(d) The
Domestic Security Section, Criminal Division, Department of Justice (DSS/DOJ)
has agreed to:
(1) Provide preliminary liaison with the Department of Defense, coordinate initial notifications with other entities of the Department of Justice and Federal law enforcement organizations; make preliminary decisions regarding proper venue; designate the appropriate U.S. Attorney's Office; and coordinate the further assignment of DOJ responsibilities.
(2) Coordinate with the designated U.S. Attorney's office arrangements for a Federal Magistrate Judge to preside over the initial proceedings required by the Act. Although the assignment of a particular Federal Magistrate Judge shall ordinarily be governed by the jurisdiction where a prosecution is likely to occur, such an assignment does not determine the ultimate venue of any prosecution that may be undertaken. Appropriate venue is determined in accordance with the requirements of section 3238 of title 18, United States Code.
(3) Coordinate the assistance to be provided the Department of Defense with the U.S. Attorney's office in the district where venue for the case shall presumptively lie.
(4) Continue to serve as the primary point of contact for DoD personnel regarding all investigations that may lead to criminal prosecutions and all associated pretrial matters, until such time as DSS/DOJ advises that the case has become the responsibility of a specific U.S. Attorney's Office.
(e) The
Commanders of the Combatant Commands
shall:
(1) Assist the DSS/DOJ on specific cases occurring within the Commander's area of responsibility. These responsibilities include providing available information and other support essential to an appropriate and successful prosecution under the Act with the assistance of the Commanders' respective Staff Judge Advocates (or Legal Advisors), or their designees, to the maximum extent allowed and practicable.
(2) Ensure command representatives are made available, as necessary, to participate in briefings of appropriate host nation authorities concerning the operation of this Act and the implementing provisions of this part.
(3) Determine when military necessity in the overseas theater requires a waiver of the limitations on removal in section 3264(a) of the Act and when the person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act shall be moved to the nearest U.S. military installation outside the United States that is adequate to detain the person and facilitate the initial proceedings prescribed in section 3265(a) of the Act and this part. Among the factors to be considered are the nature and scope of military operations in the area, the nature of any hostilities or presence of hostile forces, and the limitations of logistical support, available resources, appropriate personnel, or the communications infrastructure necessary to comply with the requirements of section 3265 of the Act governing initial proceedings.
(4) Annually report to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, by the last day of February for the immediately preceding calendar year, all cases involving the arrest of persons for violations of the Act; persons placed in temporary detention for violations of the Act; the number of requests for Federal prosecution under the Act, and the decisions made regarding such requests.
(5) Determine the suitability of the locations and conditions for the temporary detention of juveniles who commit violations of the Act within the Commander's area of responsibility. The conditions of such detention must, at a minimum, meet the following requirements: Juveniles alleged to be delinquent shall not be detained or confined in any institution or facility in which the juvenile has regular contact with adult persons convicted of a crime or awaiting trial on criminal charges; insofar as possible, alleged juvenile delinquents shall be kept separate from adjudicated delinquents; and every juvenile in custody shall be provided adequate food, heat, light, sanitary facilities, bedding, clothing, recreation, and medical care, including necessary psychiatric, psychological, or other care and treatment.
(6) As appropriate, promulgate regulations consistent with and implementing this part. The Combatant Commander's duties and responsibilities pursuant to this part may be delegated.
(f) The
Secretaries of the Military Departments
shall:
(1) Consistent with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, make provision for defense counsel representation at initial proceedings conducted outside the United States pursuant to the Act for those persons arrested or charged with violations of section 3261(a) of the Act.
(2) Issue regulations establishing procedures that, to the maximum extent practicable, provide notice to all persons covered by the Act who are not nationals of the United States but who are employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States, with the exception of individuals who are nationals of or ordinarily resident in the host nation, that they are potentially subject to the criminal jurisdiction of the United States under the Act. At a minimum, such regulations shall require that employees and persons accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States, who are not nationals of the United States, be informed of the jurisdiction of the Act at the time that they are hired for overseas employment, or upon sponsorship into the overseas command, whichever event is earlier applicable. Such notice shall also be provided during employee training and any initial briefings required for these persons when they first arrive in the foreign country. For employees and persons accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States who are not nationals of the United States, but who have already been hired or are present in the overseas command at the time this part becomes effective, such notice shall be provided within 60 days of the effective date of this part.
(3) Ensure orientation training, as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, is also provided for all U.S. nationals who are, or who are scheduled to be, employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States, including their dependents, and include information that such persons are potentially subject to the criminal jurisdiction of the United States under the Act.
(i) For members of the Armed Forces, civilian employees of the Department of Defense and civilians accompanying the Armed Forces overseas, notice and briefings on the applicability of the Act shall, at a minimum, be provided to them and their dependents when travel orders are issued and, again, upon their arrival at command military installations or place of duty outside the United States.
(ii) For civilian employees, contractors (including subcontractors at any tier), and employees of contractors (including subcontractors at any tier) of any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, permit such persons to attend the above-referenced briefings on a voluntary basis. In addition, to the maximum extent practicable, make available to representatives of such other Federal agencies or provisional authorities such notice and
briefing materials as is provided to civilian employees, contractors, and contractor employees of the Department of Defense overseas.
(4) Failure to provide notice or orientation training pursuant to paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section shall not create any rights or privileges in the persons referenced and shall not operate to defeat the jurisdiction of a court of the United States or provide a defense or other remedy in any proceeding arising under the Act or this part.
(5) Provide training to personnel who are authorized under the Act and designated pursuant to this part to make arrests outside the United States of persons who allegedly committed a violation of section 3261(a) of the Act. The training, at a minimum, shall include the rights of individuals subject to arrest.
§ 153.5
Procedures.
(a)
Applicability
—(1)
Offenses and Punishments.
Section 3261(a) of the Act establishes a separate Federal offense under 18 U.S.C. for an act committed outside the United States that would be a felony crime as if such act had been committed within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States, as defined in section 7 of 18 U.S.C. Charged as a violation of section 3261(a) of the Act, the elements of the offense and maximum punishment are the same as the crime committed within the geographical limits of section 7 of 18 U.S.C., but without the requirement that the conduct be committed within such geographical limits. See section 1 of the Section-By-Section Analysis and Discussion to section 3261 in the Report Accompanying the Act.
(2)
Persons subject to this part.
This part applies to certain military personnel, former military service members, and persons employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States, and their dependents, as those terms are defined in section 153.3 of this part, alleged to have committed an offense under the Act while outside the United States. For purposes of the Act and this part, persons employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the U.S. are subject to the “military law” of the U.S., but only to the extent to which this term has been used and its meaning and scope have been understood within the context of a SOFA or any other similar form of international agreement.
(3)
Military Service Members.
Military service members subject to the Act's jurisdiction are:
(i) Only those active duty service members who, by Federal indictment or information, are charged with committing an offense with one or more defendants, at least one of whom is not subject to the UCMJ. See section 3261(d)(2) of the Act.
(ii) Members of a Reserve component with respect to an offense committed while the member was not on active duty or inactive duty for training (in the case of members of the Army National Guard of the United States or the Air National Guard of the United States, only when in Federal service), are not subject to UCMJ jurisdiction for that offense and, as such, are amenable to the Act's jurisdiction without regard to the limitation of section 3261(d)(2) of the Act.
(4)
Former Military Service Members.
Former military service members subject to the Act's jurisdiction are:
(i) Former service members who were subject to the UCMJ at the time the alleged offenses were committed, but are no longer subject to the UCMJ with respect to the offense due to their release or separation from active duty.
(ii) Former service members, having been released or separated from active duty, who thereafter allegedly commit an offense while in another qualifying status, such as while a civilian employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States, or while the dependent of either or of a person subject to the UCMJ.
(5)
Civilians Employed by the Armed Forces.
Civilian employees employed by the U.S. Armed Forces outside the United States (as defined in section 153.3), who commit an offense under the Act while present or residing outside the U.S. in connection with such employment, are subject to the Act and the provisions of this part. Such civilian employees include:
(i) Persons employed by the Department of Defense (including a non-appropriated fund instrumentality of the Department of Defense).
(ii) Persons employed as a DoD contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier).
(iii) Employees of a DoD contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier).
(iv) Civilian employees, contractors (including subcontractors at any tier), and civilian employees of a contractor (or subcontractor at any tier) of any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas.
(6)
Civilians Accompanying the Armed Forces.
Subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, the following persons are civilians accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States who are covered by the Act and the provisions of this part:
(i) Dependents of:
(A) An active duty service member.
(B) A member of the reserve component while the member was on active duty or inactive duty for training, but in the case of members of the Army National Guard of the United States or the Air National Guard of the United States, only when in Federal service.
(C) A former service member who is employed by or is accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States.
(D) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense (including non-appropriated fund instrumentalities of the Department of Defense).
(E) A contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Defense.
(F) An employee of a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of the Department of Defense.
(ii) In addition to the person being the dependent of a person who is listed in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, jurisdiction under the Act requires that the dependent also:
(A) Reside with one of the persons listed in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section.
(B) Allegedly commit the offense while outside the United States; and
(C) Not be a national of, or ordinarily resident in, the host nation where the offense is committed.
(iii) Command sponsorship of the dependent is not required for the Act and this part to apply.
(iv) If the dependent is a juvenile, as defined in section 153.3, who engaged in conduct that is subject to prosecution under section 3261(a) of the Act, then the provisions of chapter 403 of title 18, United States Code would apply to U.S. District Court prosecutions.
(7)
Persons NOT Subject to the Act or the Procedures of this part.
(i) Persons who are the nationals of, or ordinarily resident in, the host nation where the offense is committed, regardless of their employment or dependent status.
(ii) Persons, including citizens of the United States, whose presence outside the United States at the time the offense is committed, is not then as a member of the Armed Forces, a civilian employed by the Armed Forces outside the United States, or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States.
(A) Persons (including members of a Reserve component) whose presence outside the United States at the time the offense is committed, is solely that of a tourist, a student, or a civilian employee or civilian accompanying any other non-federal agency, organization, business, or entity (and thereby can not be said to be employed by or accompanying the Armed Forces within the definitions of those terms as established by the Act, as modified) are not subject to the Act. Civilian employees of an agency, organization, business, or entity accompanying the Armed Forces outside the U.S. may, by virtue of the agency, organization, business, or entity relationship with the Armed Forces, be subject to the Act and this part.
(B) Persons who are subject to the Act and this part remain so while present, on official business or otherwise (e.g., performing temporary duty or while in leave status), in a foreign country other than the foreign country to which the person is regularly assigned, employed, or accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States.
(iii) Persons who have recognized dual citizenship with the United States
and who are the nationals of, or ordinarily resident in, the host nation where the alleged conduct took place are not persons “accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States” within the meaning of the Act and this part.
(iv) Juveniles whose ages are below the minimum ages authorized for the prosecution of juveniles in U.S. District Court under the provisions of chapter 403 of title 18, United States Code.
(v) Persons subject to the UCMJ (See sections 802 and 803 of title 10, United States Code) are not subject to prosecution under the Act unless, pursuant to section 3261(d) of the Act, the member ceases to be subject to the UCMJ or an indictment or information charges that the member committed the offense with one or more other defendants, at least one of whom is not subject to the UCMJ. A member of a Reserve component who is subject to the UCMJ at the time the UCMJ offense was committed is not relieved from amenability to UCMJ jurisdiction for that offense. Such reserve component members are not subject to the Act unless section 3261(d)(2) of the Act applies. Retired members of a regular component who are entitled to pay remain subject to the UCMJ after retiring from active duty. Such retired members are not subject to prosecution under the Act unless section 3261(d)(2) of the Act applies.
(vi) Whether Coast Guard members and civilians employed by or accompanying the Coast Guard outside the United States, and their dependents, are subject to the Act and this part depends on whether at the time of the offense the Coast Guard was operating as a separate Service in the Department of Homeland Security or as a Service in the Department of the Navy.
(8)
Persons Having a Tenuous Nexus to the United States.
Third Country Nationals who are not ordinarily resident in the host nation, and who meet the definition of “a person accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States,” may have a nexus to the United States that is so tenuous that it places into question whether the Act's jurisdiction should be applied and whether such persons should be subject to arrest, detention, and prosecution by U.S. authorities. Depending on the facts and circumstances involved, and the relationship or connection of the foreign national with the U.S. Armed Forces, it may be advisable to consult first with the DSS/DOJ before taking action with a view toward prosecution. In addition, to facilitate consultation with the government of the nation of which the Third Country National is a citizen, the State Department should be notified of any potential investigation or arrest of a Third Country National.
(b)
Investigation, Arrest, Detention, And Delivery Of Persons To Host Nation Authorities
—(1)
Investigation.
(i) Investigations of conduct reasonably believed to constitute a violation of the Act committed outside the United States must respect the sovereignty of the foreign nation in which the investigation is conducted. Such investigations shall be conducted in accordance with recognized practices with host nation authorities and applicable international law, SOFA and other international agreements. After general coordination with appropriate host nation authorities, as referenced in Appendix A of this part, specific investigations shall, to the extent practicable, be coordinated with appropriate local law enforcement authorities, unless not required by agreement with host nation authorities.
(ii) When a Military Criminal Investigative Organization is the lead investigative organization, the criminal investigator, in order to assist DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative in making a preliminary determination of whether the case warrants prosecution under the Act, shall provide a copy of the Investigative Report, or a summary thereof, to the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate of the Designated Commanding Officer (DCO) at the location where the offense was committed for review and transmittal, through the Combatant Commander, to the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative. The Office of the Staff Judge Advocate shall also furnish the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative an affidavit or declaration from the
criminal investigator or other appropriate law enforcement official that sets forth the probable cause basis for believing that a violation of the Act has occurred and that the person identified in the affidavit or declaration has committed the violation.
(iii) When the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) is the lead investigative organization, the criminal investigator, in order to assist the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative in making a preliminary determination of whether the case warrants prosecution under the Act, shall provide a copy of the Investigative Report, or a summary thereof, to the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative. The criminal investigator shall also furnish the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative, an affidavit or declaration that sets forth the probable cause basis for believing that a violation of the Act has occurred and that the person identified in the affidavit or declaration has committed the violation. Within the parameters of 10 U.S.C. Chapter 47, the Inspector General may also notify the General Counsel of the Department of Defense and the DCO's Office of the Staff Judge Advocate at the location where the offense was committed, as appropriate.
(2)
Residence Information.
To the extent that it can be determined from an individual's personnel records, travel orders into the overseas theater, passport, or other records, or by questioning upon arrest or detention, as part of the routine “booking” information obtained, an individual's last known residence in the United States shall be determined and forwarded promptly to the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative. See
Pennsylvania
v.
Muniz,
496 U.S. 582, at 601 (1990) and
United States
v.
D'Anjou,
16 F. 3d 604 (4th Cir. 1993). The information is necessary to assist in determining what law enforcement authorities and providers of pretrial services, including those who issue probation reports, shall ultimately have responsibility for any case that may develop. Determination of the individual's “last known address” in the United States is also important in determining what Federal district would be responsible for any possible future criminal proceedings.
(i) Due to the venue provisions of section 3238 of 18 U.S.C. Chapter 212, Sections 3261-3267, the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative shall be consulted prior to removal of persons arrested or charged with a violation of the Act by U.S. law enforcement officials. The venue for Federal criminal jurisdiction over offenses committed on the high seas or elsewhere beyond the jurisdiction of a particular State or District (as would be required under the Act), is in the Federal district in which the offender is arrested or first brought. However, if the individual is not so arrested in or brought into any Federal district in the United States (i.e., is to be indicted, or information obtained, prior to the individual's return to the United States), then an indictment or information may be sought in the district of the person's last known residence. If no such residence is known, the indictment or information may be filed in the District of Columbia.
(ii) “First brought” connotes the location within the U.S. to which the person is returned in a custodial status.
(iii) “Last known residence” refers to that U.S. location where the person lived or resided. It is not necessarily the same as the person's legal domicile or home of record.
(iv) Prompt transmittal of venue information to the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative in the United States may prove helpful in determining whether a particular case may be prosecuted, and may ultimately be a pivotal factor in determining whether the host nation or the U.S. shall exercise its jurisdiction over the matter.
(v) The Investigative Report, and any affidavit or declaration, as well as all other documents associated with a case shall be transmitted promptly by the command Staff Judge Advocate to the DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative. This may be accomplished through the use of facsimile or other means of electronic communication.
(3)
Notice of Complaint or Indictment.
Upon receipt of information from command authorities or Defense Criminal Investigation Organizations (the Defense Criminal Investigation Service, the Army's Criminal Investigation Command, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, and the Air Force Office of Special Investigations) that a person subject to jurisdiction under this Act has violated section 3261(a), the U.S. Attorney for the District in which there would be venue for a prosecution may, if satisfied that probable cause exists to believe that a crime has been committed and that the person identified has committed this crime, file a complaint under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 3. As an alternative, the U.S. Attorney may seek the indictment of the person identified. In either case, a copy of the complaint or indictment shall be provided to the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate of the overseas command that reported the offense. The DSS/DOJ and the designated U.S. Attorney representative will ordinarily be the source from which the command's Staff Judge Advocate is able to obtain a copy of any complaint or indictment against a person outside the United States who is subject to the jurisdiction under the Act. This may be accomplished through the use of facsimile or other means of electronic communication.
(4)
Arrest.
(i) Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 4 takes the jurisdiction of the Act into consideration in stating where arrest warrants may be executed: “Location. A warrant may be executed, or a summons served, within the jurisdiction of the United States or anywhere else a federal statute authorizes an arrest.” The Advisory Committee Note explains that the new language reflects the enactment of the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act permitting arrests of certain military and Department of Defense personnel overseas.
(ii) The Act specifically authorizes persons in DoD law enforcement positions, as designated by the Secretary of Defense, to make arrests outside the United States, upon probable cause and in accordance with recognized practices with host nation authorities and applicable international agreements, those persons subject to the Act who violate section 3261(a) of the Act. Section 3262(a) of the Act constitutes authorization by law to conduct such functions pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 801-946 and therefore avoids possible restrictions of the Posse Comitatus Act regarding military personnel supporting civilian law enforcement agencies.
(iii) When the host nation has interposed no objections after becoming aware of the Act, arrests in specific cases shall, to the extent practicable, be first coordinated with appropriate local law enforcement authorities, unless not required by agreement with host nation authorities.
(iv) Military and civilian special agents assigned to the Defense Criminal Investigative Organizations are hereby authorized by the Secretary of Defense to make an arrest, outside the United States, of a person who has committed an offense under section 3261(a) of the Act. Civilian special agents assigned to Defense Criminal Investigative Organizations while performing duties outside the U.S. shall make arrests consistent with the standardized guidelines established for such agents, as approved in accordance with sections 1585a, 4027, 7480, and 9027 of title 10, United States Code.
(v) Military personnel and DoD civilian employees (including local nationals, either direct hire or indirect hire) assigned to security forces, military police, shore patrol, or provost offices at military installations and other facilities located outside the United States are also authorized to make an arrest, outside the United States, of a person who has committed an offense under section 3261(a) of the Act. This authority includes similarly-assigned members of the Coast Guard law enforcement community, but only when the Coast Guard is operating at such locations as a Service of the Department of the Navy.
(vi) Law enforcement personnel thus designated and authorized by the Secretary of Defense in this part may arrest a person, outside the United States, who is suspected of committing a felony offense in violation of section 3261(a) of the Act, when the arrest is based on probable cause to believe that such person violated section 3261(a) of
the Act, and when made in accordance with applicable international agreements. Because the location of the offense and offender is outside the United States, it is not normally expected that the arrest would be based on a previously-issued Federal arrest warrant. Law enforcement personnel authorized to make arrests shall follow the Secretaries of the Military Departments' guidelines for making arrests without a warrant, as prescribed by 10 U.S.C. 1585a, 4027, 7480, and 9027. Authorizations issued by military magistrates under the UCMJ may not be used as a substitute for Federal arrest warrant requirements.
(vii) The foregoing authorization to DoD law enforcement personnel to arrest persons subject to Chapter 212 of title 18, United States Code, for violations of the Act is not intended as a limitation upon the authority of other Federal law enforcement officers to effect arrests when authorized to do so. (E.g., see 18 U.S.C. 3052 authorizing agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to make arrests “for any felony cognizable under the laws of the United States, 21 U.S.C. 878(a)(3) for the same authority for Drug Enforcement Administration agents, and 18 U.S.C. 3053 for the same authority for U.S. Marshals and their deputies.)
(5)
Temporary Detention.
(i) The Commander of a Combatant Command, or designee, may order the temporary detention of a person, within the Commander's area of responsibility outside the United States, who is arrested or charged with a violation of the Act. The Commander of the Combatant Command, or designee, may determine that a person arrested need not be held in custody pending the commencement of the initial proceedings required by section 3265 of the Act and paragraph (d) of this section. The Commander of the Combatant Command may designate those component commanders or DCO commanders who are also authorized to order the temporary detention of a person, within the commanding officer's area of responsibility outside the United States, who is arrested or charged with a violation of the Act.
(ii) A person arrested may be temporarily detained in military detention facilities for a reasonable period, in accordance with regulations of the Military Departments and subject to the following:
(A) Temporary detention should be ordered only when a serious risk is believed to exist that the person shall flee and not appear, as required, for any pretrial investigation, pretrial hearing or trial proceedings, or the person may engage in serious criminal misconduct (e.g., the intimidation of witnesses or other obstructions of justice, causing injury to others, or committing other offenses that pose a threat to the safety of the community or to the national security of the United States). The decision as to whether temporary detention is appropriate shall be made on a case-by-case basis. Section 3142 of title 18, United States Code provides additional guidance regarding conditions on release and factors to be considered.
(B) A person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act who is to be detained temporarily shall, to the extent practicable, be detained in areas that separate them from sentenced military prisoners and members of the Armed Forces who are in pretrial confinement pending trial by courts-martial.
(C) Separate temporary detention areas shall be used for male and female detainees.
(D) Generally, juveniles should not be ordered into temporary detention. However, should circumstances warrant temporary detention, the conditions of such temporary detention must, at a minimum, meet the following requirements: juveniles alleged to be delinquent shall not be detained or confined in any institution or facility in which the juvenile has regular contact with adult persons convicted of a crime or awaiting trial on criminal charges; insofar as possible, alleged juvenile delinquents shall be kept separate from adjudicated delinquents; and every juvenile in custody shall be provided with adequate food, heat, light, sanitary facilities, bedding, clothing, recreation, and medical care, including necessary psychiatric, psychological, or other care and treatment. Appointment of a guardian ad litem may be required under 18 U.S.C. 5034 to represent the interests of the juvenile when the
juvenile's parents are not present or when the parents' interests may be adverse to that of the juvenile.
(iii) Persons arrested or charged with a violation of the Act, upon being ordered into temporary detention and processed into the detention facility, shall, as part of the processing procedures, be required to provide the location address of their last U.S. residence as part of the routine booking questions securing “biographical data necessary to complete booking or pretrial services.” See
United States
v.
D'Anjou,
16 F. 3d 604 (4th Cir.1993). This information shall be recorded in the detention documents and made available to the DCO's Office of the Staff Judge Advocate. This information shall be forwarded with other case file information, including affidavits in support of probable cause supporting the arrest and detention, to the DSS/DOJ. The information is provided so that the DSS/DOJ may make appropriate preliminary decisions about venue. See paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(A) Notice of the temporary detention of any person for a violation of the Act shall be forwarded through command channels, without unnecessary delay, to the Combatant Commander, who shall advise the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, as the representative of the Secretary of Defense, of all such detentions. At the discretion of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, other agencies and organizations (such as the Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Secretary of the Military Department that sponsored the person into the foreign country) shall be informed, as appropriate.
(B) Such notice shall include a summary of the charges, facts and circumstances surrounding the offenses, information regarding any applicable SOFA or other international agreements affecting jurisdiction in the case, and the reasons warranting temporary detention.
(iv) If military command authorities at the military installation outside the United States intend to request a person's detention by order of the Federal Magistrate Judge, the military representative assigned to the case shall gather the necessary information setting forth the reasons in support of a motion to be brought by the attorney representing the government at the initial proceeding conducted pursuant to section 3265 of the Act.
(v) This part is not intended to eliminate or reduce existing obligations or authorities to detain persons in foreign countries as required or permitted by agreements with host countries. See generally,
United States
v.
Murphy,
18 M.J. 220 (CMA 1984).
(6)
Custody and Transport of Persons While in Temporary Detention.
(i) The Department of Defense may only take custody of and transport the person as specifically set forth in the Act. This is limited to delivery as soon as practicable to the custody of U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities for removal to the United States for judicial proceedings; delivery to appropriate authorities of the foreign country in which the person is alleged to have committed the violation of section 3261(a) of the Act in accordance with section 3263; or, upon a determination by the Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary's designee, that military necessity requires it, removal to the nearest U.S. military installation outside the United States adequate to detain the person and to facilitate the initial appearance described in 3265(a) of the Act.
(ii) Responsibility for a detained person's local transportation, escort, and custody requirements remains with the command that placed the person in temporary detention for a violation of section 3261(a) of the Act. This responsibility includes:
(A) Attendance at official proceedings and other required health and welfare appointments (e.g., appointments with counsel, medical and dental appointments, etc.).
(B) Delivery to host nation officials under section 3263 of the Act.
(C) Attendance at Initial Proceedings conducted under section 3265 of the Act.
(D) Delivery under the Act to the custody of U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities for removal to the United States.
(iii) A person who requires the continued exercise of custody and transportation to appointments and locations away from the detention facility, including delivery of the person to host nation officials under section 3263 of the Act, may be transferred under the custody of command authorities or those law enforcement officers authorized to make arrests in paragraphs (b)(4)(iv) and (b)(4)(v) of this section. Transportation of a detainee outside an installation shall be coordinated with the host nation's local law enforcement, as appropriate and in accordance with recognized practices.
(iv) Military authorities retain responsibility for the custody and transportation of a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act who is to be removed from one military installation outside the United States to another military installation outside the United States, including when the person is transferred under the provisions of section 3264(b)(5) of the Act. Unless otherwise agreed to between the sending and receiving commands, it shall be the responsibility of the sending command to make arrangements for the person's transportation and custody during the transport or transfer to the receiving command.
(v) In coordination with appropriate host nation authorities, U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities shall be responsible for taking custody of a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act and for the removal of that person to the United States for any pretrial or trial proceedings. DoD officials shall consult with the DSS/DOJ to determine which civilian law enforcement authority (i.e., U.S. Marshals Service, Federal Bureau of Investigations, Drug Enforcement Agency, or other Federal agency) shall dispatch an officer to the overseas' detention facility to assume custody of the person for removal to the United States. Until custody of the person is delivered to such U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities, military authorities retain responsibility for the custody and transportation of the person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act, to include transportation within the host nation to help facilitate the removal of the person to the United States under the Act.
(7)
Release From Temporary Detention.
When a person subject to the Act has been placed in temporary detention, in the absence of a Criminal Complaint or Indictment pursuant to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, only the Commander who initially ordered detention, or a superior Commander, or a Federal Magistrate Judge, may order the release of the detained person. If a Criminal Complaint or Indictment exists, or if a Federal Magistrate Judge orders the person detained, only a Federal Magistrate Judge may order the release of the person detained. If a Federal Magistrate Judge orders the person temporarily detained to be released from detention, the Commander who ordered detention, or a superior Commander, shall cause the person to be released. When a person is released from detention under this provision, the Commander shall implement, to the extent practicable within the commander's authority, any conditions on liberty directed in the Federal Magistrate Judge's order. When the commander who independently ordered the person's temporary detention without reliance on a Federal Magistrate Judge's order, or a superior commander, orders a person's release before a Federal Magistrate Judge is assigned to review the matter, the commander may, within the commander's authority, place reasonable conditions upon the person's release from detention.
(i) A person's failure to obey the conditions placed on his or her release from detention, in addition to subjecting that person to the commander's, or Federal Magistrate Judge's order to be returned to detention, may consistent with the commander's authority and applicable policy, laws, and regulations, subject the person to potential criminal sanctions, or to administrative procedures leading to a loss of command sponsorship to the foreign country, as well as the possibility of additional disciplinary or adverse action.
(ii) A copy of all orders issued by a Federal Magistrate Judge concerning initial proceedings, detention, conditions on liberty, and removal to the
United States shall promptly be provided to the Commander of the Combatant Command concerned and the Commander of the detention facility at which the person is being held in temporary detention.
(8)
Delivery of Persons to Host Nation Authorities.
(i) Persons arrested may be delivered to the appropriate authorities of the foreign country in which the person is alleged to have violated section 3261(a) of the Act, when:
(A) Authorities of a foreign country request that the person be delivered for trial because the conduct is also a violation of that foreign country's laws, and
(B) Delivery of the person is authorized or required by treaty or another international agreement to which the United States is a party.
(ii) Coast Guard personnel authorized to make arrests pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section are also authorized to deliver persons to foreign country authorities, as provided in section 3263 of the Act.
(iii) Section 3263(b) of the Act calls upon the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to determine which officials of a foreign country constitute appropriate authorities to which persons subject to the Act may be delivered. For purposes of the Act, those authorities are the same foreign country law enforcement authorities as are customarily involved in matters involving foreign criminal jurisdiction under an applicable SOFA or other international agreement or arrangement between the United States and the foreign country.
(iv) No action may be taken under this part with a view toward the prosecution of a person for a violation of the Act if a foreign government, in accordance with jurisdiction recognized by the United States, has prosecuted or is prosecuting such person for the conduct constituting such offense(s), except upon the approval of the Attorney General or the Deputy Attorney General (or a person acting in either such capacity). See section 3261(b) of the Act. Requests for an exception shall be written and forwarded to the Combatant Commander. The Combatant Commander shall forward the request to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, as representative for the Secretary of Defense, for review and transmittal to the Attorney General of the United States. At the discretion of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, other agencies and organizations (such as the Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Secretary of the Military Department that sponsored the person into the foreign country) shall be informed, as appropriate.
(v) Except for persons to be delivered to a foreign country, and subject to the limitations of section 3264 of the Act and paragraph (e)(5) of this section, persons arrested for conduct in violation of the Act shall, upon the issuance of a removal order by a Federal Magistrate Judge under section 3264(b) of the Act, be delivered, as soon as practicable, to the custody of U.S. civilian law enforcement authorities. See paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section.
(c)
Representation.
(1)
Civilian Defense Counsel.
(i) Civilian defense counsel representation shall not be at the expense of the Department of Defense or the Military Departments.
(ii) The Act contemplates that a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act shall be represented by a civilian attorney licensed to practice law in the United States. However, it is also recognized that in several host nations where there has been a long-standing military presence, qualified civilian attorneys (including lawyers who are U.S. citizens) have established law practices in these host nations to assist assigned U.S. personnel and to represent service members in courts-martial, or before host nation courts. With the consent of the person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act who wishes to remain in the foreign country, these lawyers can provide adequate representation for the limited purpose of any initial proceedings required by the Act. When the person entitled to an attorney or requests counsel, staff judge advocates at such locations should assemble a list of local civilian attorneys for the person's consideration. The list shall contain a disclaimer stating that no endorsement by the United States government or the command is expressed or implied
by the presence of an attorney's name on the list.
(A) To the extent practicable, military authorities shall establish procedures by which persons arrested or charged with a violation of the Act may seek the assistance of civilian defense counsel by telephone. Consultation with such civilian counsel shall be in private and protected by the attorney-client privilege.
(B) Civilian defense counsel, at no expense to the Department of Defense, shall be afforded the opportunity to participate personally in any initial proceedings required by the Act that are conducted outside the United States. When civilian defense counsel cannot reasonably arrange to be personally present for such representation, alternative arrangements shall be made for counsel's participation by telephone or by such other means that enables voice communication among the participants.
(C) When at least one participant cannot arrange to meet at the location outside the United States where initial proceedings required by the Act are to be conducted, whenever possible arrangements should be made to conduct the proceedings by video teleconference or similar means. Command video teleconference communication systems should be used for this purpose, if resources permit, and if such systems are not otherwise unavailable due to military mission requirements. When these capabilities are not reasonably available, the proceedings shall be conducted by telephone or such other means that enables voice communication among the participants. See section 3265 of the Act.
(D) The above provisions regarding the use of teleconference communication systems apply to any detention proceedings that are conducted outside the United States under section 3265(b) of the Act.
(E) Civilian defense counsel practicing in host nations do not gain Department of Defense sponsorship, nor any diplomatic status, as a result of their role as defense counsel. To the extent practicable, notice to this effect shall be provided to the civilian defense counsel when the civilian defense counsel's identity is made known to appropriate military authorities.
(2)
Qualified Military Counsel.
(i) Counsel representation also includes qualified military counsel that the Judge Advocate General of the Military Department concerned determines is reasonably available for the purpose of providing limited representation at initial proceedings required by the Act and conducted outside the United States. By agreement with the Department of Homeland Security, Coast Guard commands and activities located outside the United States shall seek to establish local agreements with military commands for qualified military counsel from the Military Departments to provide similar limited representation in cases arising within the Coast Guard. The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall establish regulations governing representation by qualified military counsel. These regulations, at a minimum, shall require that the command's Staff Judge Advocate:
(ii) Prepare, update as necessary, and make available to a Federal Magistrate Judge upon request, a list of qualified military counsel who are determined to be available for the purpose of providing limited representation at initial proceedings.
(iii) Ensure that the person arrested or charged under the Act is informed that any qualified military counsel shall be made available only for the limited purpose of representing that person in any initial proceedings that are to be conducted outside the United States, and that such representation does not extend to further legal proceedings that may occur either in a foreign country or the United States. The person arrested or charged shall also be required, in writing, to acknowledge the limited scope of qualified military counsel's representation and therein waive that military counsel's further representation in any subsequent legal proceedings conducted within a foreign country or the United States. The “Acknowledgement of Limited Representation,” at appendix B of this part, may be used for this purpose. A copy of the “Acknowledgement of Limited Representation” shall be provided to the person arrested or
charged under the Act, as well as to the qualified military counsel. The original acknowledgment shall be kept on file in the DCO's Office of the Staff Judge Advocate.
(iv) Provide available information that would assist the Federal Magistrate Judge make a determination that qualified civilian counsel are unavailable, and that the person arrested or charged under the Act is unable financially to retain civilian defense counsel, before a qualified military counsel who has been made available is assigned to provide limited representation. See Analysis and Discussion of Section 3265 (c), Report Accompanying the Act.
(3)
Union Representation.
Agency law enforcement officials shall comply with applicable Federal civilian employee rights and entitlements, if any, regarding collective bargaining unit representation under Chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, during pretrial questioning and temporary detention procedures under this part.
(4)
Military Representative.
(i) To assist law enforcement officers and the U.S. Attorney's representative assigned to a case, a judge advocate, legal officer, or civilian attorney-advisor may be appointed as a military representative to represent the interests of the United States. As appropriate, the military representative may be appointed as a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney. The military representative shall be responsible for assisting the command, law enforcement, and U.S. Attorney representatives during pretrial matters, initial proceedings, and other procedures required by the Act and this part. These responsibilities include assisting the U.S. Attorney representative determine whether continued detention is warranted, and to provide information to the presiding Federal Magistrate Judge considering the following:
(ii) If there is probable cause to believe that a violation of the Act has been committed and that the person arrested or charged has committed it,
(iii) If the person being temporarily detained should be kept in detention or released from detention, and, if released, whether any conditions practicable and reasonable under the circumstances, should be imposed.
(d)
Initial Proceedings.
(1) A person arrested for or charged with a violation of the Act may be entitled to an initial appearance before a judge and/or a detention hearing (collectively, the “initial proceedings”). The initial proceedings are intended to meet the requirements of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. The initial proceedings are not required when the person under investigation for violating the Act has not been arrested or temporarily detained by U.S. military authorities, or the person's arrest or temporary detention by U.S. law enforcement authorities occurs after the person ceases to accompany or be employed by the Armed Forces outside the United States, or the arrest or detention takes place within the United States.
(2) The initial proceedings to be conducted pursuant to the Act and this part shall not be initiated for a person delivered to foreign country authorities and against whom the foreign country is prosecuting or has prosecuted the person for the conduct constituting such offense, except when the Attorney General or Deputy Attorney General (or a person acting in either such capacity) has approved an exception that would allow for prosecution in the United States may initial proceedings under the Act be conducted, under these circumstances. Requests for approval of such an exception shall be forwarded through the Commander of the Combatant Command to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, in accordance with paragraph (b)(8)(iv) of this section.
(3) Initial proceedings required by the Act and this part shall be conducted, without unnecessary delay. In accordance with the U.S. Supreme Court decision in
County of Riverside
v.
McLaughlin,
500 U.S. 44 (1991), the initial appearance shall be conducted within 48 hours of the arrest. The initial proceedings required by the Act shall be conducted when:
(i) The person arrested has not been delivered to foreign country authorities under the provisions of section 3263 of the Act; or
(ii) The foreign country authorities having custody of the person delivers the person to U.S. military authorities without first prosecuting the person for such conduct as an offense under the laws of that foreign country.
(4) A Federal Magistrate Judge shall preside over the initial proceedings that are required by the Act and this part. The proceedings should be conducted from the United States using video teleconference methods, if practicable, and with all parties to the proceedings participating. In the event that there is no video teleconference capability, or the video teleconference capability is unavailable due to military requirements or operations, the parties to the proceeding shall, at a minimum, be placed in contact by telephone.
(5) Initial proceedings conducted pursuant to the Act and this part shall include the requirement for the person's initial appearance under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. The Federal Magistrate Judge shall determine whether probable cause exists to believe that an offense under section 3261(a) of the Act has been committed and that the identified person committed it. This determination is intended to meet the due process requirements to which the person is entitled, as determined by the U.S. Supreme Court in
Gerstein
v.
Pugh,
420 U.S. 103 (1975).
(6) Initial proceedings shall also include a detention hearing where required under 18 U.S.C. 3142 and the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. A detention hearing may be required when:
(i) The person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act has been placed in temporary detention and the intent is to request continued detention; or
(ii) The United States seeks to detain a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act who has not previously been detained.
(7) A detention hearing shall be conducted by a Federal Magistrate Judge. When the person arrested or charged requests, the detention hearing be conducted while the person remains outside the United States, detention hearing shall be conducted by the same Federal Magistrate Judge presiding over the initial proceeding and shall be conducted by telephone or other means that allow for voice communication among the participants, including the person's defense counsel. If the person does not so request, or if the Federal Magistrate Judge so orders, the detention hearing shall be held in the United States after the removal of the person to the United States.
(8) In the event that the Federal Magistrate Judge orders the person's release prior to trial, and further directs the person's presence in the district in which the trial is to take place, the U.S. Attorney Office's representative responsible for prosecuting the case shall inform the military representative and the DCO's Office of the Staff Judge Advocate.
(9) Under circumstances where the person suspected of committing an offense in violation of the Act has never been detained or an initial proceeding conducted, the presumption is that a trial date shall be established at which the defendant would be ordered to appear. Such an order would constitute an order under section 3264(b)(4) of the Act that “otherwise orders the person to be removed.” The person's failure to appear as ordered shall be addressed by the Court as with any other failure to comply with a valid court order.
(10) The DCO's Office of the Staff Judge Advocate shall assist in arranging for the conduct of initial proceedings required by the Act and this part, and shall provide a military representative to assist the U.S. Attorney's Office representative in presenting the information for the Federal Magistrate Judge's review. The military representative shall also provide any administrative assistance the Federal Magistrate Judge requires at the location outside the United States where the proceedings shall be conducted.
(e)
Removal Of Persons To The United States Or Other Countries.
(1) In accordance with the limitation established by section 3264 of the Act, military authorities shall not remove, to the United States or any other foreign country, a person suspected of violating section 3261(a) of the Act, except when:
(i) The person's removal is to another foreign country in which the person is believed to have committed a violation of section 3261(a) of the Act; or
(ii) The person is to be delivered, upon request, to authorities of a foreign country under section 3263 of the Act and paragraph (b)(8) of this section; or
(iii) The person is arrested or charged with a violation of the Act and the person is entitled to, and does not waive, a preliminary examination under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 5.1, in which case the person shall be removed to the U.S. for such examination; or
(iv) The person's removal is ordered by a Federal Magistrate Judge. See paragraph (e)(2) of this section; or
(v) The Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary's designee, directs the person be removed, as provided in section 3264(b)(5) of the Act and paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2)
Removal By Order Of A Federal Magistrate Judge.
Military authorities may remove a person suspected of violating section 3261(a) of the Act to the United States, when:
(i) A Federal Magistrate Judge orders that the person be removed to the United States to be present at a detention hearing; or
(ii) A Federal Magistrate Judge orders the detention of the person prior to trial (See 18 U.S.C. 3142(e)) in which case the person shall be promptly removed to the United States for such detention; or
(iii) A Federal Magistrate Judge otherwise orders the person be removed to the United States.
(3)
Removal By Direction of the Secretary of Defense or Designee.
The Secretary of Defense, or designee, may order a person's removal from a foreign country within the Combatant Command's geographic area of responsibility when, in his sole discretion, such removal is required by military necessity. See section 3264(b)(5) of the Act. Removal based on military necessity may be authorized in order to take into account any limiting factors that may result from military operations, as well as the capabilities and conditions associated with a specific location.
(i) When the Secretary of Defense, or designee, determines that a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act should be removed from a foreign country, the person shall be removed to the nearest U.S. military installation outside the United States where the limiting conditions requiring such a removal no longer apply, and where there are available facilities and adequate resources to temporarily detain the person and conduct the initial proceedings required by the Act and this part.
(ii) The relocation of a person under this paragraph does not authorize the further removal of the person to the United States, unless that further removal is authorized by an order issued by a Federal Magistrate Judge under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(iii)
Delegation.
The Commander of a Combatant Command, and the Commander's principal assistant, are delegated authority to make the determination, based on the criteria stated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, that a person arrested or charged with a violation of the Act shall be removed from a foreign country under section 3264(b)(5) of the Act and this part. Further delegation is authorized, but the delegation of authority is limited to a subordinate commander within the command who is designated as a general court-martial convening authority under the UCMJ.
(4) A person who is removed to the United States under the provisions of the Act and this part and who is thereafter released from detention, and otherwise at liberty to return to the location outside the United States from which he or she was were removed, shall be subject to any requirements imposed by a Federal District Court of competent jurisdiction.
(5) Where a person has been removed to the United States for a detention hearing or other judicial proceeding and a Federal Magistrate Judge orders the person's release and permits the person to return to the overseas location, the Department of Defense (including the Military Department originally sponsoring the person to be employed or to accompany the Armed Forces outside the United States) shall not be responsible for the expenses associated with the return of the person
to the overseas location, or the person's subsequent return travel to the United States for further court proceedings that may be required.
Pt. 153, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 153—Guidelines
(a) Civilians employed by the Armed Forces outside the United States who commit felony offenses while outside the U.S. are subject to U.S. criminal jurisdiction under the Act, and shall be held accountable for their actions, as appropriate.
(b) Civilians accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States who commit felony offenses while outside the U.S. are subject to U.S. criminal jurisdiction under the Act, and shall be held accountable for their actions, as appropriate.
(c) Former members of the Armed Forces who commit felony offenses while serving as a member of the Armed Forces outside the U.S., but who ceased to be subject to UCMJ court-martial jurisdiction without having been tried by court-martial for such offenses, are subject to U.S. criminal jurisdiction under the Act and shall be held accountable for their actions, as appropriate.
(d) The procedures of this part and DoD actions to implement the Act shall comply with applicable Status of Forces Agreements, and other international agreements affecting relationships and activities between the respective host nation countries and the U.S. Armed Forces. These procedures may be employed outside the United States only if the foreign country concerned has been briefed or is otherwise aware of the Act and has not interposed an objection to the application of these procedures. Such awareness may come in various forms, including but not limited to Status of Forces Agreements containing relevant language, Diplomatic Notes or other acknowledgements of briefings, or case-by-case arrangements, agreements, or understandings with appropriate host nation officials.
(e) Consistent with the long-standing policy of maximizing U.S. jurisdiction over its citizens, the Act and this part provide a mechanism for furthering this objective by closing a jurisdictional gap in U.S. law and thereby permitting the criminal prosecution of covered persons for offenses committed outside the United States. In so doing, the Act and this part provide, in appropriate cases, an alternative to a host nation's exercise of its criminal jurisdiction should the conduct that violates U.S. law also violate the law of the host nation, as well as a means of prosecuting covered persons for crimes committed in areas in which there is no effective host nation criminal justice system.
(f) In addition to the limitations imposed upon prosecutions by section 3261(b) of the Act, the Act and these procedures should be reserved generally for serious misconduct for which administrative or disciplinary remedies are determined to be inadequate or inappropriate. Because of the practical constraints and limitations on the resources available to bring these cases to successful prosecution in the United States, initiation of action under this part would not generally be warranted unless serious misconduct were involved.
(g) The procedures set out in the Act and this part do not apply to cases in which the return of fugitive offenders is sought through extradition and similar proceedings, nor are extradition procedures applicable to cases under the Act.
Pt. 153, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 153—Acknowledgment of Limited Legal Representation (Sample)
1. I, ____________, have been named as a suspect or defendant in a matter to which I have been advised is subject to the jurisdiction of the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000 (section 3261,
et seq.,
of title 18, United States Code.); hereinafter referred to as “the Act”). I have also been informed that certain initial proceedings under 18 U.S.C. 3265 may be required under this Act, for which I am entitled to be represented by legal counsel.
2. I acknowledge and understand that the appointment of military counsel for the limited purpose of legal representation in proceedings conducted pursuant to the Act is dependent upon my being unable to retain civilian defense counsel representation for such proceedings, due to my indigent status, and that qualified military defense counsel has been made available.
3. Pursuant to the Act, ____________, a Federal Magistrate Judge, has issued the attached Order and has directed that that military counsel be made available:
____ For the limited purpose of representing me at an initial proceeding to be conducted outside the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3265,
____ For the limited purpose of representing me in an initial detention hearing to be conducted outside the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3265(b),
4. ____________, military counsel, has been made available in accordance with Department of Defense Instruction 5525.bb, and as directed by the attached Order of a Federal Magistrate Judge.
5. I (do) (do not) wish to be represented by ____________, military counsel ____ (initials).
6. I understand that the legal representation of ____________, military counsel, is limited to:
a. Representation at the initial proceedings conducted outside the United States pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3265.
____ (Initials)
b. The initial detention hearing to be conducted outside the United States pursuant to the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000 (18 U.S.C. 3261,
et seq.
).
____ (Initials)
c. Other proceedings (Specify):
____________. ____ (Initials)
Signature of Person To Be Represented By Military Counsel
Signature of Witness*
Attachment:
Federal Magistrate Judge Order
(
Note:
The witness must be a person other than the defense counsel to be made available for this limited legal representation.)

# SUBCHAPTER F—SECURITY
Pt. 155

# PART 155—DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL PERSONNEL SECURITY CLEARANCE PROGRAM
Sec.
155.1
Purpose.
155.2
Applicability and scope.
155.3
Definitions.
155.4
Policy.
155.5
Responsibilities.
155.6
Procedures.
Appendix A to Part 155—Additional Procedural Guidance

# Authority:
E.O. 10865, 3 CFR 1959-1963 Comp., p. 398, as amended by E.O. 10909, 3 CFR 1959-1963 Comp., p. 437; E.O. 11382, 3 CFR 1966-1970 Comp., p. 690; and E.O. 12829, 3 CFR 1993 Comp., p. 570.

# Source:
57 FR 5383, Feb. 14, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 155.1
Purpose.
This part updates policy, responsibilities, and procedures of the Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program implementing E.O. 10865, as amended.
[57 FR 5383, Feb. 14, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 48565, Sept. 22, 1994]
§ 155.2
Applicability and scope.
This part:
(a) Applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG, DoD), and the Defense Agencies (hereafter referred to collectively as “the DoD Components”).
(b) By mutual agreement, also extends to other Federal Agencies that include:
(1) Department of Agriculture.
(2) Department of Commerce.
(3) Department of Interior.
(4) Department of Justice.
(5) Department of Labor.
(6) Department of State.
(7) Department of Transportation.
(8) Department of Treasury.
(9) Environmental Protection Agency.
(10) Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(11) Federal Reserve System.
(12) General Accounting Office.
(13) General Services Administration.
(14) National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(15) National Science Foundation.
(16) Small Business Administration.
(17) United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
(18) United States Information Agency.
(19) United States International Trade Commission.
(20) United States Trade Representative.
(c) Applies to cases that the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) forwards to the “Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA)” for action under this part to determine whether it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue a security clearance for the applicant.
(d) Provides a program that may be extended to other security cases at the direction of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (ASD(C
3
I)).
(e) Does not apply to cases in which:
(1) A security clearance is withdrawn because the applicant no longer has a need for access to classified information;
(2) An interim security clearance is withdrawn by the DISCO during an investigation; or
(3) A security clearance is withdrawn for administrative reasons that are without prejudice as to a later determination of whether the grant or continuance of the applicant's security clearance would be clearly consistent with the national interest.
(f) Does not apply to cases for access to sensitive compartmented information or a special access program.
[57 FR 5383, Feb. 14, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 35464, July 12, 1994]
§ 155.3
Definitions.
(a)
Applicant.
Any U.S. citizen who holds or requires a security clearance or any immigrant alien who holds or requires a limited access authorization for access to classified information
needed in connection with his or her employment in the private sector; any U.S. citizen who is a direct-hire employee or selectee for a position with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and who holds or requires NATO certificates of security clearance or security assurances for access to U.S. or foreign classified information; or any U.S. citizen nominated by the Red Cross or United Service Organizations for assignment with the Military Services overseas. The term “applicant” does not apply to those U.S. citizens who are seconded to NATO by U.S. Departments and Agencies or to U.S. citizens recruited through such Agencies in response to a request from NATO.
(b)
Clearance Decision.
A decision made in accordance with this part concerning whether it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant an applicant a security clearance for access to Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret information. A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of the applicant to be granted a security clearance for access at the level governed by the documented need for such access, and the type of investigation specified for that level in 32 CFR part 154. An unfavorable clearance decision denies any application for a security clearance and revokes any existing security clearance, thereby preventing access to classified information at any level and the retention of any existing security clearance.
§ 155.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) All proceedings provided for by this part shall be conducted in a fair and impartial manner.
(b) A clearance decision reflects the basis for an ultimate finding as to whether it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue a security clearance for the applicant.
(c) Except as otherwise provided for by E.O. 10865, as amended, or this part, a final unfavorable clearance decision shall not be made without first providing the applicant with:
(1) Notice of specific reasons for the proposed action.
(2) An opportunity to respond to the reasons.
(3) Notice of the right to a hearing and the opportunity to cross-examine persons providing information adverse to the applicant.
(4) Opportunity to present evidence on his or her own behalf, or to be represented by counsel or personal representative.
(5) Written notice of final clearance decisions.
(6) Notice of appeal procedures.
(d) Actions pursuant to this part shall cease upon termination of the applicant's need for access to classified information except in those cases in which:
(1) A hearing has commenced;
(2) A clearance decision has been issued; or
(3) The applicant's security clearance was suspended and the applicant provided a written request that the case continue.
[57 FR 5383, Feb. 14, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 48565, Sept. 22, 1994]
§ 155.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense of Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence shall:
(1) Establish investigative policy and adjudicative standards and oversee their application.
(2) Coordinate with the General Counsel of the Department of Defense (GC, DoD) on policy affecting clearance decisions.
(3) Issue clarifying guidance and instructions as needed.
(b) The General Counsel of the Department of Defense shall:
(1) Establish guidance and provide oversight as to legal sufficiency of procedures and standards established by this part.
(2) Establish the organization and composition of the DOHA.
(3) Designate a civilian attorney to be the Director, DOHA.
(4) Issue clarifying guidance and instructions as needed.
(5) Administer the program established by this part.
(6) Issue invitational travel orders in appropriate cases to persons to appear and testify who have provided oral or
written statements adverse to the applicant relating to a controverted issue.
(7) Designate attorneys to be Department Counsels assigned to the DOHA to represent the Government's interest in cases and related matters within the applicability and scope of this part.
(8) Designate attorneys to be Administrative Judges assigned to the DOHA.
(9) Designate attorneys to be Administrative Judge members of the DOHA Appeal Board.
(10) Provide for supervision of attorneys and other personnel assigned or attached to the DOHA.
(11) Develop and implement policy established or coordinated with the GC, DoD, in accordance with this part.
(12) Establish and maintain qualitative and quantitative standards for all work by DOHA employees arising within the applicability and scope of this part.
(13) Ensure that the Administrative Judges and Appeal Board members have the requisite independence to render fair and impartial decisions consistent with DoD policy.
(14) Provide training, clarify policy, or initiate personnel actions, as appropriate, to ensure that all DOHA decisions are made in accordance with policy, procedures, and standards established by this part.
(15) Provide for maintenance and control of all DOHA records.
(16) Take actions as provided for in § 155.6(b), and the additional procedural guidance in appendix A to this part.
(17) Establish and maintain procedures for timely assignment and completion of cases.
(18) Issue guidance and instructions, as needed, to fulfill the foregoing responsibilities.
(19) Designate the Director, DOHA, to implement paragraphs (b)(5) through (b)(18) of this section, under general guidance of the GC, DoD.
(c) The Heads of the DoD Components shall provide (from resources available to the designated DoD Component) financing, personnel, personnel spaces, office facilities, and related administrative support required by the DOHA.
(d) The ASD(C
3
I) shall ensure that cases within the scope and applicability of this part are referred promptly to the DOHA, as required, and that clearance decisions by the DOHA are acted upon without delay.
[57 FR 5383, Feb. 14, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 35464, July 12, 1994]
§ 155.6
Procedures.
(a) Applicants shall be investigated in accordance with the standards in 32 CFR part 154.
(b) An applicant is required to give, and to authorize others to give, full, frank, and truthful answers to relevant and material questions needed by the DOHA to reach a clearance decision and to otherwise comply with the procedures authorized by this part. The applicant may elect on constitutional or other grounds not to comply; but refusal or failure to furnish or authorize the providing of relevant and material information or otherwise cooperate at any stage in the investigation or adjudicative process may prevent the DOHA from making a clearance decision. If an applicant fails or refuses to:
(1) Provide relevant and material information or to authorize others to provide such information; or
(2) Proceed in a timely or orderly fashion in accordance with this part; or
(3) Follow directions of an Administrative Judge or the Appeal Board; then the Director, DOHA, or designee, may revoke any security clearance held by the applicant and discontinue case processing. Requests for resumption of case processing and reinstatement of a security clearance may be approved by the Director, DOHA, only upon a showing of good cause. If the request is denied, in whole or in part, the decision is final and bars reapplication for a security clearance for 1 year from the date of the revocation.
(c) Each clearance decision must be a fair and impartial common sense determination based upon consideration of all the relevant and material information and the pertinent criteria in 32 CFR 154.7 and adjudication policy in appendix H to 32 CFR part 154, including as appropriate:
(1) Nature and seriousness of the conduct and surrounding circumstances.
(2) Frequency and recency of the conduct.
(3) Age of the applicant.
(4) Motivation of the applicant, and the extent to which the conduct was negligent, willful, voluntary, or undertaken with knowledge of the consequences involved.
(5) Absence or presence of rehabilitation.
(6) Probability that the circumstances or conduct will continue or recur in the future.
(d) Whenever there is a reasonable basis for concluding that an applicant's continued access to classified information poses an imminent threat to the national interest, any security clearance held by the applicant may be suspended by the ASD(C
3
I), with the concurrence of the GC, DoD, pending a final clearance decision. This suspension may be rescinded by the same authorities upon presentation of additional information that conclusively demonstrates that an imminent threat to the national interest no longer exists. Procedures in appendix A to this part shall be expedited whenever an applicant's security clearance has been suspended pursuant to this section.
(e) Nothing contained in this part shall limit or affect the responsibility and powers of the Secretary of Defense or the head of another Department or Agency to deny or revoke a security clearance when the security of the nation so requires. Such authority may not be delegated and may be exercised only when the Secretary of Defense or the head of another Department or Agency determines that the hearing procedures and other provisions of this part cannot be invoked consistent with the national security. Such a determination shall be conclusive.
(f) Additional procedural guidance is in appendix A to this part.
[57 FR 5383, Feb. 14, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 35464, July 12, 1994]
Pt. 155, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 155—Additional Procedural Guidance
1. When the DISCO cannot affirmatively find that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue a security clearance for an applicant, the case will be promptly referred to the DOHA.
2. Upon referral, the DOHA shall make a prompt determination whether to grant or continue a security clearance, issue a statement of reasons (SOR) as to why it is not clearly consistent with the national interest to do so, or take interim actions, including but not limited to:
a. Direct further investigation.
b. Propound written interrogatories to the applicant or other persons with relevant information.
c. Requiring the applicant to undergo a medical evaluation by a DoD Psychiatric Consultant.
d. Interviewing the applicant.
3. An unfavorable clearance decision shall not be made unless the applicant has been provided with a written SOR that shall be as detailed and comprehensive as the national security permits. A letter of instruction with the SOR shall explain that the applicant or Department Counsel may request a hearing. It shall also explain the adverse consequences for failure to respond to the SOR within the prescribed time frame.
4. The applicant must submit a detailed written answer to the SOR under oath or affirmation that shall admit or deny each listed allegation. A general denial or other similar answer is insufficient. To be entitled to a hearing, the applicant must specifically request a hearing in his or her answer. The answer must be received by the DOHA within 20 days from receipt of the SOR. Requests for an extension of time to file an answer may be submitted to the Director, DOHA, or designee, who in turn may grant the extension only upon a showing of good cause.
5. If the applicant does not file a timely and responsive answer to the SOR, the Director, DOHA, or designee, may discontinue processing the case, deny issuance of the requested security clearance, and direct the DISCO to revoke any security clearance held by the applicant.
6. Should review of the applicant's answer to the SOR indicate that allegations are unfounded, or evidence is insufficient for further processing, Department Counsel shall take such action as appropriate under the circumstances, including but not limited to withdrawal of the SOR and transmittal to the Director for notification of the DISCO for appropriate action.
7. If the applicant has not requested a hearing with his or her answer to the SOR and Department Counsel has not requested a hearing within 20 days of receipt of the applicant's answer, the case shall be assigned to an Administrative Judge for a clearance decision based on the written record. Department Counsel shall provide the applicant with a copy of all relevant and material information that could be adduced at a hearing. The applicant shall have 30 days from receipt of the information in which to submit a documentary response setting forth objections, rebuttal, extenuation, mitigation, or explanation, as appropriate.
8. If a hearing is requested by the applicant or Department Counsel, the case shall be assigned to an Administrative Judge for a
clearance decision based on the hearing record. Following issuance of a notice of hearing by the Administrative Judge, or designee, the applicant shall appear in person with or without counsel or a personal representative at a time and place designated by the notice of hearing. The applicant shall have a reasonable time to prepare his or her case. The applicant shall be notified at least 15 days in advance of the time and place of the hearing, which generally shall be held at a location in the United States within a metropolitan area near the applicant's place of employment or residence. A continuance may be granted by the Administrative Judge only for good cause. Hearings may be held outside of the United States in NATO cases, or in other cases upon a finding of good cause by the Director, DOHA, or designee.
9. The Administrative Judge may require a prehearing conference.
10. The Administrative Judge may rule on questions of procedure, discovery, and evidence and shall conduct all proceedings in a fair, timely, and orderly manner.
11. Discovery by the applicant is limited to non-privileged documents and materials subject to control by the DOHA. Discovery by Department Counsel after issuance of an SOR may be granted by the Administrative Judge only upon a showing of good cause.
12. A hearing shall be open except when the applicant requests that it be closed, or when the Administrative Judge determines that there is a need to protect classified information or there is other good cause for keeping the proceeding closed. No inference shall be drawn as to the merits of a case on the basis of a request that the hearing be closed.
13. As far in advance as practical, Department Counsel and the applicant shall serve one another with a copy of any pleading, proposed documentary evidence, or other written communication to be submitted to the Administrative Judge.
14. Department Counsel is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to establish facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted.
15. The applicant is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.
16. Witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination.
17. The SOR may be amended at the hearing by the Administrative Judge on his or her own motion, or upon motion by Department Counsel or the applicant, so as to render it in conformity with the evidence admitted or for other good cause. When such amendments are made, the Administrative Judge may grant either party's request for such additional time as the Administrative Judge may deem appropriate for further preparation or other good cause.
18. The Administrative Judge hearing the case shall notify the applicant and all witnesses testifying that 18 U.S.C. 1001 is applicable.
19. The Federal Rules of Evidence (28 U.S.C. 101
et seq.
) shall serve as a guide. Relevant and material evidence may be received subject to rebuttal, and technical rules of evidence may be relaxed, except as otherwise provided herein, to permit the development of a full and complete record.
20. Official records or evidence compiled or created in the regular course of business, other than DoD personnel background reports of investigation (ROI), may be received and considered by the Administrative Judge without authenticating witnesses, provided that such information has been furnished by an investigative agency pursuant to its responsibilities in connection with assisting the Secretary of Defense, or the Department or Agency head concerned, to safeguard classified information within industry under to E.O. 10865, as amended. An ROI may be received with an authenticating witness provided it is otherwise admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence (28 U.S.C. 101
et seq.
).
21. Records that cannot be inspected by the applicant because they are classified may be received and considered by the Administrative Judge, provided the GC, DoD, has:
a. Made a preliminary determination that such evidence appears to be relevant and material.
b. Determined that failure to receive and consider such evidence would be substantially harmful to the national security.
22. A written or oral statement adverse to the applicant on a controverted issue may be received and considered by the Administrative Judge without affording an opportunity to cross-examine the person making the statement orally, or in writing when justified by the circumstances, only in either of the following circumstances:
a. If the head of the Department or Agency supplying the statement certifies that the person who furnished the information is a confidential informant who has been engaged in obtaining intelligence information for the Government and that disclosure of his or her identity would be substantially harmful to the national interest; or
b. If the GC, DoD, has determined the statement concerned appears to be relevant, material, and reliable; failure to receive and consider the statement would be substantially harmful to the national security; and the person who furnished the information cannot appear to testify due to the following:
(1) Death, severe illness, or similar cause, in which case the identity of the person and
the information to be considered shall be made available to the applicant; or
(2) Some other cause determined by the Secretary of Defense, or when appropriate by the Department or Agency head, to be good and sufficient.
23. Whenever evidence is received under item 21. or 22., the applicant shall be furnished with as comprehensive and detailed a summary of the information as the national security permits. The Administrative Judge and Appeal Board may make a clearance decision either favorable or unfavorable to the applicant based on such evidence after giving appropriate consideration to the fact that the applicant did not have an opportunity to confront such evidence, but any final determination adverse to the applicant shall be made only by the Secretary of Defense, or the Department or Agency head, based on a personal review of the case record.
24. A verbatim transcript shall be made of the hearing. The applicant shall be furnished one copy of the transcript, less the exhibits, without cost.
25. The Administrative Judge shall make a written clearance decision in a timely manner setting forth pertinent findings of fact, policies, and conclusions as to the allegations in the SOR, and whether it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue a security clearance for the applicant. The applicant and Department Counsel shall each be provided a copy of the clearance decision. In cases in which evidence is received under items 21. and 22., the Administrative Judge's written clearance decision may require deletions in the interest of national security.
26. If the Administrative Judge decides that it is clearly consistent with the national interest for the applicant to be granted or to retain a security clearance, the DISCO shall be so notified by the Director, DOHA, or designee, when the clearance decision becomes final in accordance with item 36., below.
27. If the Administrative Judge decides that it is not clearly consistent with the national interest for the applicant to be granted or to retain a security clearance, the Director, DOHA, or designee, shall expeditiously notify the DISCO, which shall in turn notify the applicant's employer of the denial or revocation of the applicant's security clearance. The letter forwarding the Administrative Judge's clearance decision to the applicant shall advise the applicant that these actions are being taken, and that the applicant may appeal the Administrative Judge's clearance decision.
28. The applicant or Department Counsel may appeal the Administrative Judge's clearance decision by filing a written notice of appeal with the Appeal Board within 15 days after the date of the Administrative Judge's clearance decision. A notice of appeal received after 15 days from the date of the clearance decision shall not be accepted by the Appeal Board, or designated Board Member, except for good cause. A notice of cross appeal may be filed with the Appeal Board within 10 days of receipt of the notice of appeal. An untimely cross appeal shall not be accepted by the Appeal Board, or designated Board Member, except for good cause.
29. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Appeal Board shall be provided the case record. No new evidence shall be received or considered by the Appeal Board.
30. After filing a timely notice of appeal, a written appeal brief must be received by the Appeal Board within 45 days from the date of the Administrative Judge's clearance decision. The appeal brief must state the specific issue or issues being raised, and cite specific portions of the case record supporting any alleged error. A written reply brief, if any, must be filed within 20 days from receipt of the appeal brief. A copy of any brief filed must be served upon the applicant or Department Counsel, as appropriate.
31. Requests for extension of time for submission of briefs may be submitted to the Appeal Board or designated Board Member.
A copy of any request for extension of time must be served on the opposing party at the time of submission. The Appeal Board, or designated Board Member, shall be responsible for controlling the Appeal Board's docket, and may enter an order dismissing an appeal in an appropriate case or vacate such an order upon a showing of good cause.
32. The Appeal Board shall address the material issues raised by the parties to determine whether harmful error occurred. Its scope of review shall be to determine whether or not:
a. The Administrative Judge's findings of fact are supported by such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion in light of all the contrary evidence in the same record. In making this review, the Appeal Board shall give deference to the credibility determinations of the Administrative Judge;
b. The Administrative Judge adhered to the procedures required by E.O. 10865, as amended and this part; or
c. The Administrative Judge's rulings or conclusions are arbitrary, capricious, or contrary to law.
33. The Appeal Board shall issue a written clearance decision addressing the material issues raised on appeal. The Appeal Board shall have authority to:
a. Affirm the decision of the Administrative Judge;
b. Remand the case to an Administrative Judge to correct identified error. If the case is remanded, the Appeal Board shall specify the action to be taken on remand; or
c. Reverse the decision of the Administrative Judge if correction of identified error mandates such action.
34. A copy of the Appeal Board's written clearance decision shall be provided to the parties. In cases in which evidence was received under items 21. and 22., the Appeal Board's clearance decision may require deletions in the interest of national security.
35. Upon remand, the case file shall be assigned to an Administrative Judge for correction of error(s) in accordance with the Appeal Board's clearance decision. The assigned Administrative Judge shall make a new clearance decision in the case after correcting the error(s) identified by the Appeal Board. The Administrative Judge's clearance decision after remand shall be provided to the parties. The clearance decision after remand may be appealed pursuant to items 28. to 35.
36. A clearance decision shall be considered final when:
a. A security clearance is granted or continued pursuant to item 2.;
b. No timely notice of appeal is filed;
c. No timely appeal brief is filed after a notice of appeal has been filed;
d. The appeal has been withdrawn;
e. When the Appeal Board affirms or reverses an Administrative Judge's clearance decision; or
f. When a decision has been made by the Secretary of Defense, or the Department or Agency head, under item 23.
The Director, DOHA, or designee, shall notify the DISCO of all final clearance decisions.
37. An applicant whose security clearance has been finally denied or revoked by the DOHA is barred from reapplication for 1 year from the date of the initial unfavorable clearance decision.
38. A reapplication for a security clearance must be made initially by the applicant's employer to the DISCO and is subject to the same processing requirements as those for a new security clearance application. The applicant shall thereafter be advised he is responsible for providing the Director, DOHA, with a copy of any adverse clearance decision together with evidence that circumstances or conditions previously found against the applicant have been rectified or sufficiently mitigated to warrant reconsideration.
39. If the Director, DOHA, determines that reconsideration is warranted, the case shall be subject to this part for making a clearance decision.
40. If the Director, DOHA, determines that reconsideration is not warranted, the DOHA shall notify the applicant of this decision. Such a decision is final and bars further reapplication for an additional one year period from the date of the decision rejecting the application.
41. Nothing in this part is intended to give an applicant reapplying for a security clearance any greater rights than those applicable to any other applicant under this part.
42. An applicant may file a written petition, under oath or affirmation, for reimbursement of loss of earnings resulting from the suspension, revocation, or denial of his or her security clearance. The petition for reimbursement must include as an attachment the favorable clearance decision and documentation supporting the reimbursement claim. The Director, DOHA, or designee, may in his or her discretion require additional information from the petitioner.
43. Claims for reimbursement must be filed with the Director, DOHA, or designee, within 1 year after the date the security clearance is granted. Department Counsel generally shall file a response within 60 days after receipt of applicant's petition for reimbursement and provide a copy thereof to the applicant.
44. Reimbursement is authorized only if the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence to the Director, DOHA, that all of the following conditions are met:
a. The suspension, denial, or revocation was the primary cause of the claimed pecuniary loss; and
b. The suspension, denial, or revocation was due to gross negligence of the Department of Defense at the time the action was taken, and not in any way by the applicant's failure or refusal to cooperate.
45. The amount of reimbursement shall not exceed the difference between the earnings of the applicant at the time of the suspension, revocation, or denial and the applicant's interim earnings, and further shall be subject to reasonable efforts on the part of the applicant to mitigate any loss of earnings. No reimbursement shall be allowed for any period of undue delay resulting from the applicant's acts or failure to act. Reimbursement is not authorized for loss of merit raises and general increases, loss of employment opportunities, counsel's fees, or other costs relating to proceedings under this part.
46. Claims approved by the Director, DOHA, shall be forwarded to the Department or Agency concerned for payment. Any payment made in response to a claim for reimbursement shall be in full satisfaction of any further claim against the United States or any Federal Department or Agency, or any of its officers or employees.
47. Clearance decisions issued by Administrative Judges and the Appeal Board shall be indexed and made available in redacted form to the public.
[57 FR 5383, Feb. 14, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 35464, July 12, 1994; 59 FR 48565, Sept. 22, 1994]
Pt. 156

# PART 156—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM (PSP)
Sec.
156.1
Purpose.
156.2
Applicability.
156.3
Policy.
156.4
Responsibilities.
156.5
National security positions.
156.6
Common access card (CAC) investigation and adjudication.
156.7
Definitions.

# Authority:
E.O. 12968, as amended; E.O. 10450, as amended; E.O. 10865, as amended; E.O. 13526; E.O. 12829, as amended; E.O. 13467; E.O. 13488; E.O. 12333, as amended; 5 U.S.C 301 and 7532; section 1072 of Pub. L. 110-181, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 278g-3; 40 U.S.C. 11331; 10 U.S.C. 1564; 50 U.S.C. 3343; 5 CFR parts 731, 731.101, 732, and 736; and HSPD-12.

# Source:
79 FR 18163, Apr. 1, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 156.1
Purpose.
This part updates policies and responsibilities for the DoD Personnel Security Program (PSP) consistent with E.O. 12968, as amended; E.O. 10450, as amended; E.O. 10865, as amended; E.O. 13526; E.O. 12829, as amended; E.O. 13467; E.O. 13488; E.O. 12333, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301 and 7532; section 1072 of Public Law 110-181, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 278g-3; 40 U.S.C. 11331; 10 U.S.C. 1564; 32 CFR parts 147, 154 through 156; 50 U.S.C. 3343; 5 CFR parts 731, 731.101, 732 and 736; and HSPD-12.
§ 156.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the DoD, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
§ 156.3
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) The Department shall establish and maintain a uniform DoD PSP to the extent consistent with standards and procedures in E.O. 12968, as amended; E.O. 10450, as amended; E.O. 10865, as amended; E.O. 13526; E.O. 12829, as amended; E.O. 13467; E.O. 13488; E.O. 12333, as amended; 32 CFR parts 147, 154 through 156; 5 CFR parts 731, 731.101, 732 and 736; 5 U.S.C. 301 and 7532; section 1072 of Public Law 110-181, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 278g-3; section 11331 of 40 U.S.C.; 10 U.S.C. 1564; 50 U.S.C. 3343; and the Intelligence Community Directive Number 704 (ICD 704) (available on the Internet at
http://www.dni.gov
).
(b) DoD PSP policies and procedures shall be aligned using consistent standards to the extent possible; provide for reciprocal recognition of existing investigations and adjudications; be cost-effective, timely, and provide efficient protection of the national interest; and provide fair treatment of those upon whom the Federal Government relies to conduct the Nation's business and protect national security.
(c) Discretionary judgments used to determine eligibility for national security positions are an inherently governmental function and shall be performed by appropriately trained and favorably adjudicated Federal Government personnel or appropriate automated procedures.
(d) No negative inference may be raised solely on the basis of mental health counseling. Such counseling may be a positive factor that, by itself, shall not jeopardize the rendering of eligibility determinations or temporary eligibility for access to national security information. However, mental health counseling, where relevant to adjudication for a national security position, may justify further inquiry to assess risk factors that may be relevant to the DoD PSP.
(e) The DoD shall not discriminate nor may any inference be raised on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, or sexual orientation.
(f) Discretionary judgments that determine eligibility for national security positions shall be clearly consistent with the national security interests of the United States. Any doubt shall be resolved in favor of national security.
(g) No person shall be deemed to be eligible for a national security position merely by reason of Federal service or contracting, licensee, certificate holder, or grantee status, or as a matter of
right or privilege, or as a result of any particular title, rank, position, or affiliation.
(h) No person shall be appointed or assigned to a national security position when an unfavorable personnel security determination has been rendered.
(i) Eligibility for national security positions shall be granted only to persons who are U.S. citizens for whom the investigative and adjudicative process has been favorably completed. However, based on exceptional circumstances where official functions must be performed prior to completion of the investigative and adjudicative process, temporary eligibility for access to classified information may be granted while the investigation is underway.
(j) As an exception, a non-U.S. citizen who possesses an expertise that cannot be filled by a cleared or clearable U.S. citizen, may hold a national security position or be granted a limited access authorization to classified information in support of a specific DoD program, project, or contract following a favorable security determination by an authorized adjudication facility.
(k) The DoD shall establish investigative and adjudicative policy and procedures to determine whether to issue, deny or revoke common access cards (CACs) in accordance with the standards of the Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12 (available in the Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States: George W. Bush (2004, Book II, page 1765) found on the Internet at
http://www.gpo.gov/
); Office of Management and Budget Memorandum (OMB) M-05-24 (available on the Internet at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
); Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 201-1 (FIPS 201-1) or successor (available on the Internet at
http://csrc.nist.gov/
); 48 CFR, Chapter 1, Parts 1-99 (Federal Acquisition Regulation); 48 CFR, Chapter 2, Parts 201-253 (Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement), and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12,” dated July 31, 2008 (available on the Internet at
http://www.opm.gov/
), as applicable.
(l) Information about individuals collected as part of the investigative and adjudicative process shall be managed in accordance with applicable laws and DoD policies, including those related to privacy and confidentiality, security of information, and access to information.
§ 156.4
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)) shall:
(1) Develop, coordinate, and oversee the implementation of policy, programs, and guidance for the DoD PSP.
(2) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) and the General Counsel of the DoD (GC, DoD), develop policy for DoD personnel for the CAC personnel security investigation (PSI) and adjudication in accordance with HSPD-12; OMB Memorandum M-05-24; FIPS 201-1; and OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.”
(3) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (USD(AT
L)) and the GC, DoD, develop policy for contractor investigations for CAC adjudication, outside the purview of the National Industrial Security Program, under the terms of applicable contracts in accordance with HSPD-12; OMB Memorandum M-05-24; FIPS 201-1; the Federal Acquisition Regulation; the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement; and OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.”
(4) Issue guidance implementing the policy in this part.
(b) The Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
Security (DUSD(I
S)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(I) shall:
(1) Ensure that the PSP is consistent, cost-effective, efficient, and balances the rights of individuals with the interests of national security.
(2) Develop and publish revisions to 32 CFR Part 154.
(3) Approve, coordinate, and oversee all DoD personnel security research initiatives and activities to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and fairness of the DoD PSP.
(4) Ensure that the Defense Security Service (DSS) provides education, training, and awareness support to the DoD PSP.
(5) Serve as the primary contact between DoD, the Red Cross, United Service Organizations, and other organizations with direct DoD affiliation for all matters relating to the DoD PSP.
(6) When appropriate, approve requests for exceptions to the DoD PSP relating to national security eligibility requirements for access to classified information except North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) classified information. Requests for exceptions involving access to NATO classified information shall be sent to the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
(7) Develop guidance, interpretation, and clarification regarding the DoD PSP as needed.
(8) Conduct oversight inspections of the DoD Components for implementation and compliance with DoD personnel security policy and operating procedures.
(9) In furtherance of coordinated Government-wide initiatives under E.O. 13467, develop a framework setting forth an overarching strategy identifying goals, performance measures, roles and responsibilities, a communications strategy, and metrics to measure the quality of security clearance investigations and adjudications to ensure a sound DoD PSP that will continue to meet the needs of DoD.
(c) The USD(AT
L) shall:
(1) Establish acquisition policy, procedures, and guidance, in coordination with the USD(I) that facilitate DoD Component compliance with the DoD PSP.
(2) Establish regulatory requirements within the Federal Acquisition Regulation and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation for contracts and agreements that require non-DoD personnel to adhere to personnel security procedures in the performance of a contract or agreement.
(d) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (USD(P)) is the approval authority for requests for exceptions to the DoD PSP involving access to NATO classified information.
(e) The GC, DoD shall:
(1) Provide advice and guidance as to the legal sufficiency of procedures and standards involved in implementing the DoD PSP and exercise oversight of the established administrative due process procedures of the DoD PSP.
(2) Perform functions relating to the DoD PSP including the maintenance and oversight of the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA).
(f) The Heads of the DoD Components shall:
(1) Designate a senior agency official, consistent with the provisions of E.O. 12968, as amended, who shall direct and administer the DoD PSP consistent with this part.
(2) Comply with the policy and procedures regarding investigation and adjudication for CAC issuance and distribute this guidance to local and regional organizations.
(3) Provide funding to cover Component requirements for PSIs, adjudication, and recording of results to comply with the DoD PSP.
(4) Enforce requirements for prompt reporting of significant derogatory information, unfavorable administrative actions, and adverse actions to the appropriate personnel security, human resources, and counterintelligence official(s), as appropriate, within their respective Component.
(5) Perform functions relating to the DoD Security Professional Education Development Program to ensure the security workforce in their respective Component has the knowledge and skills required to perform security functional tasks.
(6) Provide requested information and recommendations, as appropriate, on any aspect of this part and the DoD PSP to the USD(I).
(7) Enforce the requirement that DoD personnel security adjudication system(s) of records, within their respective Components, shall only be used as a personnel security system of records and shall not be used as a pre-hiring screening tool.
§ 156.5
National security positions.
(a)
Procedures.
The objective of the PSP is to ensure persons deemed eligible for national security positions remain reliable and trustworthy.
(1) Duties considered sensitive and critical to national security do not always involve classified activities or classified matters. Personnel security procedures for national security positions are set forth in E.O. 12968, as amended; E.O. 10865, 32 CFR parts 154-155; ICD 704; and DoD Regulation 5220.22-R. The specific procedures applicable in each case type are set forth in DoD issuances.
(2) Employees with access to automated systems that contain active duty, guard, or military reservists' personally identifiable information or information pertaining to Service members that are otherwise protected from disclosure by section 552a of title 5 United States Code, may be designated as national security positions within DoD, where such access has the potential to cause damage to national security.
(b)
Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) Eligibility.
Investigative and adjudicative requirements for SCI eligibility shall be executed in accordance with this part and ICD 704.
(c)
Adjudication.
(1) Personnel security criteria and adjudicative standards are described in E.O. 12968, as amended; 32 CFR parts 147, 154 and 155; ICD 704, and DoD Regulation 5220.22-R, as applicable, in accordance with Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information and other types of protected information or assignment to national security positions. Adjudications of eligibility for national security positions, regardless of whether they involve access to classified information, must be made in accordance with the Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information.
(2) When an unfavorable personnel security determination is rendered:
(i) Individuals cannot be appointed or assigned to national security positions.
(ii) An individual currently occupying a national security position will be immediately removed from the national security position and placed, in accordance with agency policy, in an existing non-sensitive position if available. Placement in a non-sensitive position requires compliance with employment suitability standards. The national security position is not to be modified or a new position created to circumvent an unfavorable personnel security determination. The individual is to be placed in an appropriate status, in accordance with agency policy, until a final security determination is made. A final security determination is the granting, denial or revocation by an appropriate central adjudications facility or an appeal board decision, whichever is later.
(iii) To ensure consistency and quality in determinations of eligibility for national security positions, adjudicators must successfully complete the full program of professional training provided by the DSS Center for Development of Security Excellence (or equivalent training) and be certified through the DoD Professional Certification Program for Adjudicators within 2 years of program implementation or, for new hires, within 2 years of eligibility for certification testing.
(d)
Appeal Procedures—Denial or Revocation of Eligibility.
Individuals may elect to appeal unfavorable personnel security determinations in accordance with the procedures set forth in E.O. 12968, as amended; parts 154 and 155 of 32 CFR; ICD 704, and DoD Regulation 5220.22-R as applicable or as otherwise authorized by law.
(e)
Polygraph.
Under certain conditions, DoD Components are authorized to use polygraph examinations to resolve credible derogatory information developed in connection with a personnel security investigation; to aid in the related adjudication; or to facilitate classified access decisions.
(f)
Continuous Evaluation.
All personnel in national security positions shall be subject to continuous evaluation.
(g)
Financial Disclosure.
DoD Component implementation of the electronic financial disclosure requirement, consistent with E.O. 12968, shall be completed by the end of calendar year 2012.
(h)
Reciprocal Acceptance of Eligibility Determinations.
(1) DoD reciprocally accepts existing national security eligibility determinations or clearances
from other government agencies in accordance with E.O. 13467, OMB Memorandums “Reciprocal Recognition of Existing Personnel Security Clearances” dated December 12, 2005 (Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
) and July 17, 2006 (Copies available on the Internet at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb
).
(2) Reciprocity for SCI eligibility shall be executed in accordance with ICD 704 and associated Director of National Intelligence guidance.
(3) Personnel who have been determined eligible for national security positions should not be subjected to additional security reviews, completion of a new security questionnaire, or initiation of a new investigative check, unless credible derogatory information that was not previously adjudicated becomes known, or the previous adjudication was granted by a condition, deviation, or waiver pursuant the provisions of OMB Memorandums “Reciprocal Recognition of Existing Personnel Security Clearances” dated December 12, 2005, or there has been a break in service of more than 24 months. Exceptions for access to SCI or special access programs are listed in the OMB Memorandums “Reciprocal Recognition of Existing Personnel Security Clearances” dated July 17, 2006.
(i)
National Security Agency (NSA)/Central Security Service (CSS).
Employees, contractors, military assignees, and others with similar affiliations with the NSA/CSS must maintain SCI eligibility for access to sensitive cryptologic information in accordance with 50 U.S.C. chapter 23.
(j)
Wounded Warrior Security and Intelligence Internship Program.
PSIs in support of wounded warriors may be submitted and processed regardless of the time remaining in military service. Investigations will be accelerated through a special program code established by the Office of the USD(I) to ensure expedited service by the investigating and adjudicating agencies.
(1) Category 2 wounded, ill, or injured uniformed service personnel who expect to be separated with a medical disability rating of 30 percent or greater may submit a PSI for Top Secret clearance with SCI eligibility prior to medical separation provided they are serving in or have been nominated for a wounded warrior internship program.
(2) The investigations will be funded by the DoD Component that is offering the internship. If the DoD Component does not have funds available, the Military Service in which the uniform service personnel served may choose to fund the investigation.
§ 156.6
Common access card (CAC) investigation and adjudication.
(a)
General.
Individuals entrusted with access to Federal property, information systems, and any other information bearing on national security must not put the Government at risk or provide an avenue for terrorism.
(1) All individuals requiring a CAC must meet credentialing standards of OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.” For those individuals who are subject to an interim credentialing decision before a security, suitability, or equivalent adjudication is completed, the OPM credentialing standards will be the basis for issuing or denying a CAC. The subsequent credentialing decision will be made upon receipt of the completed investigation from the ISP.
(2) If an individual is found unsuitable for employment in a covered position under 5 CFR 731.101, ineligible for access to classified information under E.O. 12968, or disqualified from appointment in the excepted service or from working on a contract, the unfavorable decision is a sufficient basis for non-issuance or revocation of a CAC, but does not necessarily mandate this result.
(b)
Investigation.
A favorably adjudicated National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) is the minimum investigation required for a final credentialing determination for CAC.
(1) An interim credentialing determination can be made based on the results of a completed National Agency Check or an Federal Bureau of Investigation National Criminal History Check (fingerprint check), and submission of a request for investigation (NACI or greater).
(2) Individuals identified as having a favorably adjudicated investigation on
record, equivalent to (or greater than) the NACI do not require an additional investigation for CAC issuance.
(3) There is no requirement to reinvestigate CAC holders unless they are subject to reinvestigation for national security or suitability reasons as specified in applicable DoD issuances.
(4) Existing CAC holders without the requisite background investigation on record must be investigated in accordance with OMB Memorandum M-05-24, “Implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12—Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors,” dated August 5, 2005.
(c)
Adjudication.
The ultimate determination whether to authorize CAC issuance or revoke the CAC must be an overall common-sense judgment after careful consideration of the basic and, if applicable, supplemental credentialing standards in OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12,” each of which is to be evaluated in the context of the whole person. These standards shall be evaluated to determine if there is a reasonable basis to believe that issuing a CAC to the individual poses an unacceptable risk.
(1) Each case is unique and must be judged on its own merits. To the extent pertinent to the individual case, when evaluating the conduct, the adjudicator should consider: the nature and seriousness of the conduct, the circumstances surrounding the conduct, the recency and frequency of the conduct, the individual's age and maturity at the time of the conduct, contributing external conditions, and the presence or absence of rehabilitation or efforts toward rehabilitation.
(2) Final credentialing standards are:
(i)
Basic Credentialing Standards.
All CAC adjudications must apply the basic credentialing standards. CAC shall not be issued when a disqualifying factor cannot be mitigated.
(ii)
Supplemental Credentialing Standards.
The supplemental credentialing standards, in addition to the basic credentialing standards, shall apply generally to individuals who are not subject to adjudication for eligibility for a sensitive position or access to classified information, suitability for Federal employment or fitness. These standards may be applied based on the risk associated with the position or work on the contract.
(3) All interim and final adjudicative determinations shall be made by cleared and trained Federal Government personnel. Automated adjudicative processes shall be used to the maximum extent practicable.
(4) Adjudication decisions of CAC investigations shall be incorporated into the Consolidated Central Adjudication Facility as directed by the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
(5) CAC adjudicators must successfully complete formal training through a DoD adjudicator course from the DSS Center for Development of Security Excellence to achieve maximum consistency and fairness of decisions rendered.
(6) Federal Government credentialing standards do not prohibit employment of convicted felons who have been released from correctional institutions, absent other issues, if they have demonstrated clear evidence of rehabilitation.
(d)
Appeals.
CAC applicants or holders may appeal CAC denial or revocation.
(1) No separate administrative appeal process is allowed when an individual has been denied a CAC as a result of a negative suitability determination under 5 CFR Part 731, an applicable decision to deny or revoke a security clearance, or based on the results of a determination to disqualify the person from an appointment in an excepted service position or from working on a contract for reasons other than eligibility for a Federal Credential as described in OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.” If a later denial or revocation of a CAC results from an applicable denial or revocation of a security clearance, suitability decision, or other action for which administrative process was already provided on grounds that support denial or revocation of a CAC, no separate appeal for CAC denial or revocation is allowed.
(2) Initial civilian and contractor applicants who have been denied a CAC, and for whom an appeal is allowed under this paragraph, may elect to appeal to a three member board containing no more than one security representative from the sponsoring activity.
(3) Contractor employees who have had their CAC revoked, and for whom an appeal is allowed under this paragraph, may appeal to DOHA under the established administrative process set out in 32 CFR Part 155.
(4) Decisions following appeal are final.
(5) Individuals whose CACs have been denied or revoked are eligible for reconsideration 1 year after the date of final denial or revocation, provided the sponsoring activity supports reconsideration. Individuals with a statutory or regulatory bar are not eligible for reconsideration while under debarment.
(e)
Foreign Nationals.
Special considerations for conducting background investigations of non-U.S. nationals (foreign nationals) are addressed in OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.” The following criteria shall be met prior to CAC issuance to foreign nationals:
(1) The background investigation must be completed and favorably adjudicated before issuing CACs to foreign nationals.
(2) Foreign nationals are not eligible to receive CAC on an interim basis.
(3) At foreign locations:
(i) Foreign national background investigations may vary based on standing reciprocity treaties concerning identity assurance and information exchange that exist between the United States and its allies. This includes foreign military, civilian, or contract support with a visit status and security assurance that has been confirmed, documented, and processed in accordance with USD(P) policy.
(ii) The type of background investigation may also vary based upon agency agreements with the host country when the foreign national CAC applicant (such as a DoD direct or indirect hire) has not resided in the United States for at least 3 of the past 5 years or is residing in a foreign country. The investigation must be consistent with NACI, to the extent possible, and include a fingerprint check against the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) criminal history database, an FBI Investigations Files (name check) search, and a name check against the Terrorist Screening Database.
(4) At U.S.-based locations and in U.S. territories:
(i) Foreign nationals who have resided in the United States or U.S. territory for 3 years or more must have a NACI or greater investigation.
(ii) Components may delay the background investigation of foreign nationals who have resided in the U.S. or U.S. territory for less than 3 years until the individual has been in the U.S. or U.S. territory for 3 years. When the investigation is delayed, the Component may, in lieu of a CAC, issue an alternative facility access credential at the discretion of the relevant Component official based on a risk determination.
(f)
Recording Final Adjudication.
Immediately following final adjudication, the sponsoring activity shall record the final eligibility determination (active, revoked, denied, etc.) in the OPM Central Verification System as directed by OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12,” and maintain local records for posting in a DoD repository when available.
(g)
Reciprocity of CAC Determinations.
(1) The sponsoring activity shall not re-adjudicate CAC determinations for individuals transferring from another Federal department or agency, provided:
(i) Possession of a valid personal identity verification (PIV) card or CAC can be verified by the individual's former department or agency.
(ii) The individual has undergone the required NACI or other equivalent suitability, public trust, or national security investigation and received favorable adjudication from the former agency.
(iii) There is no break in service greater than 24 months and the individual has no actionable information since the date of the last completed investigation.
(2) Interim CAC determinations are not eligible to be transferred or reciprocally accepted. Reciprocity shall be based on final favorable adjudication only.
§ 156.7
Definitions.
These terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part:
Continuous evaluation.
Defined in section 1.3(d) of E.O. 13467.
Contractor.
Defined in E.O. 13467.
Employee.
Defined in E.O. 12968, as amended.
Limited access authorization.
Defined in 32 CFR Part 154.
National security position.
(1) Any position in a department or agency, the occupant of which could bring about, by virtue of the nature of the position, a material adverse effect on the national security.
(i) Such positions include those requiring eligibility for access to classified information.
(ii) Other such positions include, but are not limited to, those whose duties include:
(A) Protecting the nation, its citizens and residents from acts of terrorism, espionage, or foreign aggression, including those positions where the occupant's duties involve protecting the nation's borders, ports, critical infrastructure or key resources, and where the occupant's neglect, action, or inaction could bring about a material adverse effect on the national security;
(B) Developing defense plans or policies;
(C) Planning or conducting intelligence or counterintelligence activities, counterterrorism activities and related activities concerned with the preservation of the military strength of the United States;
(D) Protecting or controlling access to facilities or information systems where the occupant's neglect, action, or inaction could bring about a material adverse effect on the national security;
(E) Controlling, maintaining custody, safeguarding, or disposing of hazardous materials, arms, ammunition or explosives, where the occupant's neglect, action, or inaction could bring about a material adverse effect on the national security;
(F) Exercising investigative or adjudicative duties related to national security, suitability, fitness or identity credentialing, where the occupant's neglect, action, or inaction could bring about a material adverse effect on the national security;
(G) Exercising duties related to criminal justice, public safety or law enforcement, where the occupant's neglect, action, or inaction could bring about a material adverse effect on the national security; or
(H) Conducting investigations or audits related to the functions described in paragraphs (1)(ii)(B) through (G) of this definition, where the occupant's neglect, action, or inaction could bring about a material adverse effect on the national security.
(2) The requirements of this part apply to positions in the competitive service, positions in the excepted service where the incumbent can be noncompetitively converted to the competitive service, and career appointments in the Senior Executive Service within the executive branch. Departments and agencies may apply the requirements of this part to other excepted service positions within the executive branch and contractor positions, to the extent consistent with law.
Unacceptable risk.
Threat to the life, safety, or health of employees, contractors, vendors, or visitors; to the Government's physical assets or information systems; to personal property; to records, privileged, proprietary, financial, or medical records; or to the privacy of data subjects, which will not be tolerated by the Government.
Pt. 157

# PART 157—DOD INVESTIGATIVE AND ADJUDICATIVE GUIDANCE FOR ISSUING THE COMMON ACCESS CARD (CAC)
Sec.
157.1
Purpose.
157.2
Applicability.
157.3
Definitions.
157.4
Policy.
157.5
Responsibilities.
157.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
HSPD-12, E.O 13467, E.O. 13488, FIPS 201-2, and OPM Memorandum.

# Source:
79 FR 55624, Sept. 17, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 157.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for investigating and adjudicating eligibility to hold a Common Access Card (CAC). The CAC is the DoD personal identity verification (PIV) credential.
§ 157.2
Applicability.
This part applies to:
(a) the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments (including the Coast Guard at all times, including when it is a Service in the Department of Homeland Security by agreement with that Department), the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(b) The Commissioned Corps of the U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS), under agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), under agreement with the Department of Commerce.
§ 157.3
Definitions.
These terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.
Actionable information.
Information that potentially justifies an unfavorable credentialing determination.
CAC.
The DoD Federal PIV card.
Contractor.
Defined in Executive Order 13467, “Reforming Processes Related to Sustainability for Government Employment, Fitness for Contractor Employees, and Eligibility for Access to Classified National Security Information”.
Contractor employee fitness.
Defined in E.O. 13467.
Debarment.
A prohibition from taking a competitive service examination or from being hired (or retained in) a covered position for a specific time period..
Drugs.
Mood and behavior-altering substances, including drugs, materials, and other chemical compounds identified and listed in 21 U.S.C. 801-830 (also known as “The Controlled Substances Act of 1970, as amended”) (e.g., marijuana or cannabis, depressants, narcotics, stimulants, hallucinogens), and inhalants and other similar substances.
Drug abuse.
The illegal use of a drug or use of a legal drug in a manner that deviates from approved medical direction.
Employee.
Defined in E.O. 12968, “Access to Classified Information”.
Fitness.
Defined in E.O. 13488, “Granting Reciprocity on Excepted Service and Federal Contractor Employee Fitness and Reinvestigating Individuals in Positions of Public Trust”.
Fitness determination.
Defined in E.O. 13488.
Logical and physical access.
Defined in E.O. 13467.
Material.
Defined in 5 CFR part 731.
Reasonable basis.
A reasonable basis to believe occurs when a disinterested observer, with knowledge of the same facts and circumstances, would reasonably reach the same conclusion.
Terrorism.
Defined in 19 U.S.C. 2331.
Unacceptable risk.
A threat to the life, safety, or health of employees, contractors, vendors, or visitors; to the U.S. Government physical assets or information systems; to personal property; to records, including classified, privileged, proprietary, financial, and medical records; or to the privacy rights established by The Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, or other law that is deemed unacceptable when making risk management determinations.
U.S. National.
Defined in U.S. OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12” (available at
http://www.opm.gov/investigate/resources/final_credentialing_standards.pdf
).
§ 157.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) Individuals appropriately sponsored for a CAC consistent with DoD Manual 1000.13, Volume 1, “DoD Identification Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle,” January 23, 2014, (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/
100013_vol1.pdf
) must be investigated and adjudicated in accordance with this part. Individuals not CAC eligible may be processed for local or regional base passes in accordance with Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)) policy guidance for DoD physical access control consistent with DoD Regulation 5200.08-R, “Physical Security Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/520008r.pdf
) and local installation security policies and procedures.
(b) A favorably adjudicated National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI) or equivalent in accordance with revised Federal investigative standards is the minimum investigation required for a final credentialing determination for a CAC.
(c) Individuals requiring a CAC must meet the credentialing standards in accordance with the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12”; and U.S. Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Introduction of Credentialing, Suitability, and Security Clearance Decision-Making Guide (available at
http://www.opm.gov/investigate/resources/decision_making_guide.pdf
) and this part.
(d) A CAC may be issued on an interim basis based on a favorable National Agency Check or a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) National Criminal History Check (fingerprint check) adjudicated by appropriate approved automated procedures or by a trained security or human resource (HR) specialist and successful submission to the investigative service provider (ISP) of a NACI, or a personnel security investigation (PSI) equal to or greater in scope than a NACI. Additionally, the CAC applicant must present two identity source documents, at least one of which is a valid Federal or State government-issued picture identification.
(e) The subsequent final credentialing determination will be made upon receipt of the completed investigation from the ISP.
(f) Discretionary judgments used to render an adjudicative determination for issuing the CAC are inherently governmental functions and must only be performed by trained U.S. Government personnel who have successfully completed required training and possess a minimum level of investigation (NACI or equivalent in accordance with revised Federal investigative standards). Established administrative processes in 32 CFR part 156 and DoD Directive 5220.6, “Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/522006p.pdf
) must be applied.
(g) Adjudications rendered for eligibility for access to classified information, eligibility to hold a sensitive position, suitability, or fitness for Federal employment based on a NACI or higher level investigation may result in a concurrent CAC decision for that position.
(h) Favorable credentialing adjudications from another Federal department or agency will be reciprocally accepted in accordance with conditions stated in the procedural guidance in this part. Reciprocity must be based on final favorable adjudication only.
(i) CAC applicants or holders may appeal CAC denial or revocation in accordance with the conditions stated in the procedural guidance in this part. Appeals must be processed as indicated in the procedural guidance in this part.
(j) Non-U.S. nationals at foreign locations are not eligible to receive a CAC on an interim basis. Special considerations for conducting background investigations of non-U.S. nationals are addressed in U.S. OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12.” An interim CAC may be issued to non-U.S. nationals in the U.S. or U.S. territories if they have resided in the U.S. or U.S. territory for at least 3 years, and they satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section and paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(A) of § 157.6.
(k) Individuals who have been denied a CAC or have had a CAC revoked due to an unfavorable credentialing determination are eligible to reapply for a credential 1 year after the date of final adjudicative denial or revocation.
(l) Individuals with a statutory or regulatory bar are not eligible for reconsideration while under debarment, see paragraph (d)(6) of § 157.6.
(m) The Deputy Secretary of Defense directed all reports of investigations conducted as required for compliance with Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12, “Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors” (available at
http://www.dhs.gov/homeland-security-presidential-directive-12
) to be sent to the consolidated DoD Central Adjudications Facility.
(n) When eligibility is denied or revoked, CACs shall be recovered whenever practicable, and shall immediately be rendered inoperable. In addition, agencies' physical and logical access systems shall be immediately updated to eliminate the use of a CAC for access.
§ 157.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The USD(I) must:
(1) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) and the General Counsel of the Department of Defense (GC, DoD), establish adjudication procedures to support CAC credentialing decisions in accordance with DoD Manual 1000.13, Volume 1, “DoD Identification (ID) Cards; ID Card Life-Cycle”; U.S. Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12”; U.S. Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Introduction of Credentialing, Suitability, and Security Clearance Decision-Making Guide; Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-05-24, “Implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12—Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors” (available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/fy2005/m05-24.pdf
); U.S. Office of Personnel Management Federal Investigations Notice Number 06-04, “HSPD 12—Advanced Fingerprint Results” (available at
http://www.opm.gov/extra/investigate/FIN06_04.pdf
); Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12, “Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors”; 5 U.S.C. 552, 552a and 7313; Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 201-2, “Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors” (available at
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/PubsFIPS.html
); Executive Order 13467, “Reforming Processes Related to Suitability for Government Employment, Fitness for Contractor Employees, and Eligibility for Access to Classified National Security Information”; Executive Order 13488, “Granting Reciprocity on Excepted Service and Federal Contractor Employee Fitness and Reinvestigating Individuals in Positions of Public Trust”; 15 U.S.C. 278g-3; 40 U.S.C. 11331; and U.S. Office of Personnel Management Federal Investigations Notice Number 10-05, “Reminder to Agencies of the Standards for Issuing Identity Credentials Under HSPD-12” (available at
http://www.opm.gov/investigate/fins/2010/fin10-05.pdf
) for issuing a CAC to Service members and DoD civilian personnel.
(2) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT
L)) and the GC, DoD, establish adjudication procedures to support a CAC credentialing decision for contractors in accordance with the terms of applicable contracts and the references cited in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Federal Acquisition Regulation (available at
http://www.acquisition.gov/far/current/pdf/FAR.pdf
), and the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (available at
http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfarspgi/current/index.html
).
(3) Issue, interpret, and clarify CAC investigative and adjudicative guidance in coordination with the Suitability Executive Agent as necessary.
(b) The USD(P
R) must, in coordination with the GC, DoD, implement CAC PSI and adjudication procedures established herein as necessary to support issuance of a CAC to Service members and DoD civilian personnel in accordance with the references cited in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(c) The USD(AT
L) must, in coordination with the GC, DoD, implement CAC PSI and adjudication procedures
established by the USD(I) for contractors in accordance with the terms of applicable contracts and the references cited in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, Federal Acquisition Regulation, current edition; and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, current edition.
(d) The GC, DoD must:
(1) Provide advice and guidance as to the legal sufficiency of procedures and standards involved in adjudicating CAC investigations.
(2) Perform functions relating to the DoD Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD)-12 Program in accordance with DoD Directive 5220.6, “Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/522006p.pdf
) and DoD Directive 5145.01, “General Counsel of the Department of Defense” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/514501p.pdf
) including maintenance and oversight of the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals (DOHA) and its involvement in contractor CAC revocations as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(B) of § 157.6 of this part.
(3) Coordinate on USD(P
R) implementation of CAC PSI and adjudication procedures, in accordance with the references cited in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for Service members and DoD civilian personnel, and USD(AT
L) implementation of USD(I) procedures for CAC PSI and adjudication in accordance with the terms of applicable contracts and the references cited in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, Federal Acquisition Regulation and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement.
(e) The Heads of the DoD Components must:
(1) Comply with and implement this part.
(2) Provide resources for PSIs, adjudication, appeals, and recording of final adjudicative results in a centralized database.
(3) Require individuals sponsored for a CAC to meet eligibility requirements stated in DTM 08-003.
(4) Provide appeals boards for those individuals appealing CAC denial or revocation as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A) of § 157.6.
(5) Enforce requirements for reporting of derogatory information, unfavorable administrative actions, and adverse actions to personnel security, HR, and counterintelligence official(s), as appropriate.
(6) Require all PSIs submitted for non-DoD personnel to be supported by and comply with DoD PIV procedures in contracts that implement requirements of paragraphs 4.1303 and 52.204-9 of Federal Acquisition Regulation, current edition.
(7) Require all investigations and adjudications required for non-DoD personnel to be in response to a current, active contract or agreement and that the number of personnel submitted for investigation and adjudication does not exceed the specific requirements of that contract or agreement while ensuring compliance with HSPD-12.
§ 157.6
Procedures.
(a)
CAC Investigative Procedures
—(1)
Investigative Requirements.
(i) A personnel security investigation (NACI or greater) completed by an authorized ISP is required to support a CAC credentialing determination based on the established credentialing standards promulgated by OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12”.
(ii) Individuals identified as having a favorably adjudicated investigation on record, equivalent to or greater than the NACI, do not require an additional investigation for CAC issuance.
(iii) There is no requirement to reinvestigate CAC holders unless they are subject to reinvestigation for national security or suitability reasons as specified in applicable DoD issuances.
(2)
Submission of Investigations.
Investigative packages must be submitted promptly by HR or security personnel to the authorized ISP. Fingerprints for CAC applicants must be taken by HR or security personnel. DoD Components using the OPM as the ISP may request advanced fingerprint check results in accordance with OPM Federal Investigations Notice Number 06-04.
(3)
Reciprocity.
(i) The sponsoring Component must not re-adjudicate CAC determinations for individuals
transferring from another Federal department or agency, provided:
(A) The individual's former department or agency verifies possession of a valid PIV.
(B) The individual has undergone the required NACI or other equivalent (or greater) suitability or national security investigation and received favorable adjudication from the former department or agency.
(C) There is no break in service 2 years or more and the individual has no actionable information since the date of the last completed investigation.
(ii) Interim CAC determinations are not eligible to be transferred or reciprocally accepted. Reciprocity must be based on final favorable adjudication only.
(4)
Foreign (Non-U.S.) Nationals.
DoD Components must apply the credentialing process and standards in this part to non-U.S. nationals who work as employees or contractor employees for the DoD. However, special considerations apply to non-U.S. nationals.
(i)
At Foreign Locations.
(A) DoD Components must initiate and ensure completion of a background investigation before applying the credentialing standards to a non-U.S. national at a foreign location. The background investigation must be favorably adjudicated before a CAC can be issued to a non-U.S. national at a foreign location. The type of background investigation may vary based on standing reciprocity treaties concerning identity assurance and information exchanges that exist between the U.S. and its allies or agency agreements with the host country.
(B) The investigation of a non-U.S. national at a foreign location must be consistent with a NACI, to the extent possible, and include a fingerprint check against the FBI criminal history database, an FBI investigations files (name check) search, and a name check against the terrorist screening database.
(ii)
At U.S.-Based Locations and in U.S. Territories (Other than American Samoa and Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands).
(A) Individuals who are non-U.S. nationals in the United States or U.S. territory for 3 years or more must have a NACI or equivalent investigation initiated after employment authorization is appropriately verified.
(B) Non-U.S. nationals who have been in the United States or U.S. territory for less than 3 years do not meet the investigative requirements for CAC issuance. DoD Components may delay the background investigation of a Non-U.S. national who has been in the U.S. or U.S. territory for less than 3 years until the individual has been in the United States or U.S. territory for at least 3 years. In the event of such a delay, an alternative facility access identity credential may be issued at the discretion of the relevant DoD Component official, as appropriate based on a risk determination in accordance with DoD 5200.08-R, “Physical Security Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/520008r.pdf
) and U.S. Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12.”
(C) The U.S. territories of American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands are not included in the “United States” as defined by the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952, as amended (Pub. L. 82-414).
(5)
Investigations Acceptable for CAC Adjudication.
A list of investigations acceptable for CAC adjudication is located in the Table. These investigations are equivalent to or greater than a NACI. This list will be updated by the USD(I) as revisions to the Federal investigative standards are implemented.
Table—Favorably Adjudicated Investigations Acceptable for CAC Adjudication
Investigation
Description
ANACI
Access National Agency Check and Inquires.
BGI-0112
Upgrade Background Investigation (1-12 months from LBI).
BGI-1336
Upgrade Background Investigation (13-36 months from LBI).
BGI-3760
Upgrade Background Investigation (37-60 months from LBI).
BI
Background Investigation.
BIPN
Background Investigation plus Current National Agency Check.
BIPR
Periodic Reinvestigation of Background Investigation.
BITN
Background Investigation (10 year scope).
CNCI
Child Care National Agency Check plus Written Inquires and Credit.
IBI
Interview Oriented Background Investigation.
LBI
Limited Background Investigation.
LBIP
Limited Background Investigation plus Current National Agency Check.
LBIX
Limited Background Investigation—Expanded.
MBI
Moderate Risk Background Investigation.
MBIP
Moderate Risk Background Investigation plus Current National Agency Check.
MBIX
Moderate Risk Background Investigation—Expanded.
NACB
National Agency Check/National Agency Check plus Written Inquires and Credit Check plus Background Investigation Requested.
NACI
National Agency Check and Inquires.
NACLC
National Agency Check with Law and Credit.
NACS
National Agency Check/National Agency Check plus Written Inquires and Credit Check plus Single Scope B.I. Requested.
NACW
National Agency Check plus Written Inquires and Credit.
NACZ
National Agency Check plus Written Inquires and Credit plus Special Investigative Inquiry.
NLC
National Agency Check, Local Agency Check and Credit.
NNAC
National Agency Check plus Written Inquires and Credit Plus Current National Agency Check.
NSI
NSI—NACI/Suitability Determination.
PRI
Periodic Reinvestigation.
PRS
Periodic Reinvestigation Secret.
PRSC
Periodic Reinvestigation Secret or Confidential.
PPR
Phased Periodic Reinvestigation.
SPR
Secret Periodic Reinvestigation.
SSBI
Single Scope Background Investigation.
SSBI-PR
Periodic Reinvestigation for SSBI.
(b)
CAC Adjudicative Procedures
—(1)
Guidance for Applying Credentialing Standards During Adjudication.
(i) As established in Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12, credentialing adjudication considers whether or not an individual is eligible for long-term access to Federally controlled facilities and/or information systems. The ultimate determination to authorize, deny, or revoke the CAC based on a credentialing determination of the PSI must be made after consideration of applicable credentialing standards in OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12.”
(ii) Each case is unique. Adjudicators must examine conditions that raise an adjudicative concern, the overriding factor for all of these conditions is unacceptable risk. Factors to be applied consistently to all information available to the adjudicator are:
(A) The nature and seriousness of the conduct. The more serious the conduct, the greater the potential for an adverse CAC determination.
(B) The circumstances surrounding the conduct. Sufficient information concerning the circumstances of the conduct must be obtained to determine whether there is a reasonable basis to believe the conduct poses a risk to people, property or information systems.
(C) The recency and frequency of the conduct. More recent or more frequent conduct is of greater concern.
(D) The individual's age and maturity at the time of the conduct. Offenses committed as a minor are usually treated as less serious than the same offenses committed as an adult, unless the offense is very recent, part of a pattern, or particularly heinous.
(E) Contributing external conditions. Economic and cultural conditions may be relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk if the conditions are currently removed or countered (generally considered in cases with relatively minor issues).
(F) The absence or presence of efforts toward rehabilitation, if relevant, to address conduct adverse to CAC determinations.
(
1
) Clear, affirmative evidence of rehabilitation is required for a favorable adjudication (e.g., seeking assistance and following professional guidance, where appropriate; demonstrating positive changes in behavior and employment).
(
2
) Rehabilitation may be a consideration for most conduct, not just alcohol and drug abuse. While formal counseling or treatment may be a consideration, other factors (such as the individual's employment record) may also be indications of rehabilitation.
(iii) CAC adjudicators must successfully complete formal training through a DoD CAC adjudicator course from the Defense Security Service Center for Development of Security Excellence or a course approved by the Suitability Executive Agent.
(2)
Credentialing Standards.
HSPD-12 credentialing standards contained in OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12” must be used to render a final determination whether to issue or revoke a CAC based on results of a qualifying PSI.
(i)
Basic Standards.
CAC credentialing standards and the adjudicative guidelines described in paragraph (c) of this section are designed to guide the adjudicator who must determine, based on results of a qualifying PSI, whether CAC issuance is consistent with the basic standards, would create an unacceptable risk for the U.S. Government, or would provide an avenue for terrorism.
(ii)
Supplemental Standards.
The supplemental standards are intended to ensure that the issuance of a CAC to an individual does not create unacceptable risk. The supplemental credentialing standards must be applied, in addition to the basic credentialing standards. In this context, an unacceptable risk refers to an unacceptable risk to the life, safety, or health of employees, contractors, vendors, or visitors; to the Government's physical assets or information systems; to personal property; to records, including classified, privileged, proprietary, financial, or medical records; or to the privacy of data subjects.
The supplemental credentialing standards, in addition to the basic credentialing standards, must be used for CAC adjudication of individuals who are not also subject to the following types of adjudication:
(A) Eligibility to hold a sensitive position or for access to classified information,
(B) Suitability for Federal employment in the competitive service, or
(C) Qualification for Federal employment in the excepted service.
(3)
Application of the Standards.
(i) CAC credentialing standards shall be applied to all DoD civilian employees, Service members, and contractors who are CAC eligible, have been sponsored by a DoD entity, and require: (a) Physical access to DoD facilities or non-DoD facilities on behalf of DoD; (b) logical access to information systems (whether on site or remotely); or (c) remote access to DoD networks that use only the CAC logon for user authentication.
(ii) If an individual is found unsuitable for competitive civil service consistent with 5 CFR part 731, ineligible for access to classified information pursuant to E.O. 12968, or disqualified from appointment in the excepted service or from working on a contract, the unfavorable decision may be sufficient basis for non-issuance or revocation of a CAC, but does not necessarily mandate this result.
(4)
Adjudication.
The CAC adjudicators will consider the information provided by the CAC PSI in rendering a CAC credentialing determination. The determination will be unfavorable if there is a reasonable basis to conclude that a disqualifying factor in accordance with the basic CAC credentialing standards is substantiated, or when there is a reasonable basis to conclude that derogatory information or conduct relating to supplemental CAC credentialing standards presents an unacceptable risk for the U.S. Government.
(i) If a DoD Component or DOHA proposes to deny or revoke a CAC under conditions other than those cited in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the DoD Component or DOHA, as appropriate in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, must issue the
individual a written statement (also known as a letter of denial (LOD) or revocation (LOR)) identifying the disqualifying condition(s). The statement must contain a summary of the concerns and supporting adverse information, instructions for responding, and copies of the relevant CAC credentialing standards and adjudicative guidelines from this section. The written LOD or LOR must be as comprehensive and detailed as permitted by the requirements of national security and to protect sources that were granted confidentiality, and as allowed pursuant to provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552 and 552a. (Section 552a is also known and hereinafter referred to as “The Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.”)
(ii) The individual may elect to respond in writing to the DoD Component or DOHA, as appropriate, within 30 calendar days from the date of the LOD or LOR. Failure to respond to the LOD or LOR will result in automatic CAC denial or revocation.
(iii) When, subsequent to issuance of an interim or final CAC, the U.S. Government receives credible information that raises questions as to whether a current CAC holder continues to meet the applicable credentialing standards, the DoD Component may reconsider the credentialing determination using the procedures in this part.
(5)
Denial or Revocation.
(i) DoD Components must deny or revoke a CAC if the individual fails to respond to the LOD or LOR within the specified time-frame or the response to the written statement has not provided a basis to reverse the decision.
(ii) Denial or revocation of a CAC must comply with applicable governing laws and regulations:
(A) The U.S. Coast Guard shall afford individuals appeal rights as established in applicable Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Coast Guard Issuances.
(B) CAC provides Service members with Geneva Convention protection in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.1, “Identification (ID) Cards Required by the Geneva Conventions” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/100001p.pdf
), and authorized benefits (e.g. medical) and must not be revoked or denied pursuant to the provisions of this part. CAC for Military Service members will be surrendered only upon separation, discharge, or retirement.
(C) In certain instances a CAC provides other benefits or specific privileges to civilian employees (e.g. medical, post exchange and commissary) when assigned overseas long-term; or protected status to civilian employees and contractors who are accompanying U.S. forces during overseas deployments in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.1. CAC for DoD civilians or contractors in this circumstance will not be revoked pursuant to the provisions of this part, but may be surrendered as part of other adverse employment or contracting actions or procedures.
(iii) When eligibility is denied or revoked, the CAC shall be recovered whenever practicable, and shall immediately be rendered inoperable. In addition, agency's physical and logical access systems shall immediately be updated to eliminate the use of the CAC for access.
(6)
Appeals.
(i) Individuals who have been denied a CAC or have had a CAC revoked due to an unfavorable credentialing determination must be entitled to appeal the determination in accordance with the following procedures:
(A) Except as stated in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, new civilian and contractor applicants who have been denied a CAC may elect to appeal to a three member board composed of not more than one security representative and one human resources representative.
(B) Contractor employees who have had their CAC revoked may appeal the unfavorable determination to the DOHA in accordance with the established administrative process set out in DoD Directive 5220.6.
(ii) This appeal process does not apply when a CAC is denied or revoked as a result of either an unfavorable suitability determination consistent with 5 CFR part 731 or a decision to deny or revoke eligibility for access to classified information or eligibility for a sensitive national security position, since the person is already entitled to
seek review in accordance with applicable suitability or national security procedures. Likewise, there is no right to appeal when the decision to deny the CAC is based on the results of a separate determination to disqualify the person from an appointment in the excepted service or to bar the person from working for or on behalf of a Federal department or agency.
(iii) The DoD Component will notify the individual in writing of the final determination and provide a statement that this determination is not subject to further appeal.
(7)
Recording Final Determination.
Immediately following final adjudication, the sponsoring activity must record the final eligibility determination (e.g., active, revoked, denied) in the OPM Central Verification System as directed by OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards Under HSPD-12.” DoD Component records will document the adjudicative rationale. Adjudicative records shall be made available to authorized recipients as required for appeal purposes.
(c)
Basic Adjudicative Standards.
(1) A CAC will not be issued to a person if the individual is known to be or reasonably suspected of being a terrorist.
(i) A CAC must not be issued to a person if the individual is known to be or reasonably suspected of being a terrorist. Individuals entrusted with access to Federal property and information systems must not put the U.S. Government at risk or provide an avenue for terrorism.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include evidence that the individual has knowingly and willfully been involved with reportable domestic or international terrorist contacts or foreign intelligence entities, counterintelligence activities, indicators, or other behaviors described in DoD Directive 5240.06, “Counterintelligence Awareness and Reporting (CIAR)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/524006p.pdf
).
(2) A CAC will not be issued to a person if the employer is unable to verify the individual's claimed identity.
(i) A CAC must not be issued to a person if the DoD component is unable to verify the individual's claimed identity. To be considered eligible for a CAC, the individual's identity must be clearly authenticated. The CAC must not be issued when identity cannot be authenticated.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) The individual claimed it was not possible to provide two identity source documents from the list of acceptable documents in Form I-9, Office of Management and Budget No. 1115-0136, “Employment Eligibility Verification,”(available at
http://www.uscis.gov/files/form/i-9.pdf
) or provided only one identity source document from the list of acceptable documents.
(B) The individual did not appear in person as required by Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 201-2.
(C) The individual refused to cooperate with the documentation and investigative requirements to validate his or her identity.
(D) The investigation failed to confirm the individual's claimed identity.
(iii) No conditions can mitigate inability to verify the applicant's identity.
(3) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual has submitted fraudulent information concerning his or her identity.
(i) A CAC must not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual has submitted fraudulent information concerning his or her identity in an attempt to obtain the current credential.
(A) Substitution occurred in the identity proofing process; the individual who appeared on one occasion was not the same person that appeared on another occasion.
(B) The fingerprints associated with the identity do not belong to the person attempting to obtain a CAC.
(ii) No conditions can mitigate submission of fraudulent information in an attempt to obtain a current credential.
(4) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will attempt to gain unauthorized access to classified documents, information protected by
the Privacy Act, information that is proprietary in nature, or other sensitive or protected information.
(i) Individuals must comply with information-handling regulations and rules. Individuals must properly handle classified and protected information such as sensitive or proprietary information.
(ii) Individuals should not attempt to gain unauthorized access to classified documents or other sensitive or protected information. Unauthorized access to U.S. Government information or improper use of U.S. Government information once access is granted may pose a significant risk to national security, may compromise individual privacy, and may make public information that is proprietary in nature, thus compromising the operations and missions of Federal agencies.
(iii) A CAC must not be issued if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will attempt to gain unauthorized access to classified documents, information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, information that is proprietary in nature, or other sensitive or protected information.
(iv) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include any attempt to gain unauthorized access to classified, sensitive, proprietary or other protected information.
(v) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) Since the time of the last act or activities, the person has demonstrated a favorable change in behavior.
(B) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's ability to safeguard protected information.
(5) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will use an identity credential outside the workplace unlawfully or inappropriately.
(i) A CAC must not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will use an identity credential outside the workplace unlawfully or inappropriately.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) Documented history of fraudulent requests for credentials or other official documentation.
(B) Previous incidents in which the individual used credentials or other official documentation to circumvent rules or regulations.
(C) A history of incidents involving misuse of credentials that put physical assets or personal property at risk.
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's ability and willingness to use credentials lawfully and appropriately.
(6) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will use Federally-controlled information systems unlawfully, make unauthorized modifications to such systems, corrupt or destroy such systems, or engage in inappropriate uses of such systems.
(i) Individuals must comply with rules, procedures, guidelines, or regulations pertaining to information technology systems and properly protect sensitive systems, networks, and information. The individual should not attempt to use federally-controlled information systems unlawfully, make unauthorized modifications, corrupt or destroy, or engage in inappropriate uses of such systems. A CAC must not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe the individual will do so or has done so in the past.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) Illegal, unauthorized, or inappropriate use of an information technology system or component.
(B) Unauthorized modification, destruction, manipulation of information, software, firmware, or hardware to corrupt or destroy information technology systems or data.
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's ability and willingness to conform to rules and regulations for use of information technology systems.
(d)
Supplemental Adjudicative Standards.
(1) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the individual's misconduct or negligence in employment, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.
(i) An individual's employment misconduct or negligence may put people, property, or information systems at risk.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) A previous history of intentional wrongdoing on the job, disruptive, violent, or other acts that may pose an unacceptable risk to people, property, or information systems.
(B) A pattern of dishonesty or rule violations in the workplace which put people, property or information at risk.
(C) A documented history of misusing workplace information systems to view, download, or distribute pornography.
(D) Violation of written or recorded commitments to protect information made to an employer, such as breach(es) of confidentiality or the release of proprietary or other information.
(E) Failure to comply with rules or regulations for the safeguarding of classified, sensitive, or other protected information.
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's current trustworthiness or good judgment relating to the safety of people and proper safeguarding of property and information systems.
(B) The individual was not adequately warned that the conduct was unacceptable and could not reasonably be expected to know that the conduct was wrong.
(C) The individual made prompt, good-faith efforts to correct the behavior.
(D) The individual responded favorably to counseling or remedial training and has since demonstrated a positive attitude toward the discharge of information-handling or security responsibilities.
(2) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the individual's criminal or dishonest conduct, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.
(i) An individual's conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions about his or her reliability or trustworthiness and may put people, property, or information systems at risk. An individual's past criminal or dishonest conduct may put people, property, or information systems at risk.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) A single serious crime or multiple lesser offenses which put the safety of people at risk or threaten the protection of property or information. A person's convictions for burglary may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable risk to the U.S. Government's physical assets and to employees' personal property on a U.S. Government facility.
(B) Charges or admission of criminal conduct relating to the safety of people and proper protection of property or information systems, regardless of whether the person was formally charged, formally prosecuted, or convicted.
(C) Dishonest acts (e.g., theft, accepting bribes, falsifying claims, perjury, forgery, or attempting to obtain identity documentation without proper authorization).
(D) Deceptive or illegal financial practices such as embezzlement, employee theft, check fraud, income tax evasion, expense account fraud, filing deceptive loan statements, or other intentional financial breaches of trust.
(E) Actions involving violence or sexual behavior of a criminal nature that
poses an unacceptable risk if access is granted to federally-controlled facilities or federally-controlled information systems. For example, convictions for sexual assault may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable risk to the life and safety of persons on U.S. Government facilities.
(F) Financial irresponsibility may raise questions about the individual's honesty and put people, property or information systems at risk, although financial debt should not in and of itself be cause for denial.
(G) Deliberate omission, concealment, or falsification of relevant facts or deliberately providing false or misleading information to an employer, investigator, security official, competent medical authority, or other official U.S. Government representative, particularly when doing so results in personal benefit or which results in a risk to the safety of people and proper safeguarding of property and information systems.
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor in nature, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur.
(B) Charges were dismissed or evidence was provided that the person did not commit the offense and details and reasons support his or her innocence.
(C) Improper or inadequate advice from authorized personnel or legal counsel significantly contributed to the individual's omission, of information. When confronted, the individual provided an accurate explanation and made prompt, good-faith effort to correct the situation.
(D) Evidence has been supplied of successful rehabilitation, including but not limited to remorse or restitution, job training or higher education, good employment record, constructive community involvement, or passage of time without recurrence.
(3) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the individual's material, intentional false statement, deception, or fraud in connection with Federal or contract employment, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.
(i) The individual's conduct involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise questions about an individual's honesty, reliability, trustworthiness, and put people, property, or information systems at risk.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include material, intentional falsification, deception or fraud related to answers or information provided during the employment process for the current or a prior Federal or contract employment (e.g., on the employment application or other employment, appointment or investigative documents, or during interviews.)
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) The misstated or omitted information was so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur.
(B) The misstatement or omission was unintentional or inadvertent and was followed by a prompt, good-faith effort to correct the situation.
(4) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the nature or duration of the individual's alcohol abuse without evidence of substantial rehabilitation, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.
(i) An individual's abuse of alcohol may put people, property, or information systems at risk. Alcohol abuse can lead to the exercise of questionable judgment or failure to control impulses, and may put people, property, or information systems at risk, regardless of whether he or she is diagnosed as an abuser of alcohol or alcohol dependent. A person's long-term abuse of alcohol without evidence of substantial rehabilitation may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable safety risk in a U.S. Government facility.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) A pattern of alcohol-related arrests.
(B) Alcohol-related incidents at work, such as reporting for work or
duty in an intoxicated or impaired condition, or drinking on the job.
(C) Current continuing abuse of alcohol.
(D) Failure to follow any court order regarding alcohol education, evaluation, treatment, or abstinence.
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) The individual acknowledges his or her alcoholism or issues of alcohol abuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence (if alcohol dependent) or responsible use (if an abuser of alcohol).
(B) The individual is participating in counseling or treatment programs, has no history of previous treatment or relapse, and is making satisfactory progress.
(C) The individual has successfully completed inpatient or outpatient counseling or rehabilitation along with any required aftercare. He or she has demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations, such as participation in an alcohol treatment program. The individual has received a favorable prognosis by a duly qualified medical professional or a licensed clinical social worker who is a staff member of a recognized alcohol treatment program.
(5) A CAC will not be issued to a person if there is a reasonable basis to believe, based on the nature or duration of the individual's illegal use of narcotics, drugs, or other controlled substances without evidence of substantial rehabilitation, that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.
(i) An individual's abuse of drugs may put people, property, or information systems at risk. Illegal use of narcotics, drugs, or other controlled substances, to include abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs, can raise questions about his or her trustworthiness, or ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. For example, a person's long-term illegal use of narcotics without evidence of substantial rehabilitation may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable safety risk in a U.S. Government facility.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) Current or recent illegal drug use, serious narcotic, or other controlled substance offense.
(B) A pattern of drug-related arrests or problems in employment.
(C) Illegal drug possession, including cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs, or possession of drug paraphernalia.
(D) Diagnosis by a duly qualified medical professional (e.g., physician, clinical psychologist, or psychiatrist) of drug abuse or drug dependence.
(E) Evaluation of drug abuse or drug dependence by a licensed clinical social worker who is a staff member of a recognized drug treatment program.
(F) Failure to successfully complete a drug treatment program prescribed by a duly qualified medical professional.
(G) Any illegal drug use after formally agreeing to comply with rules or regulations prohibiting drug use.
(H) Any illegal use or abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs.
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was so infrequent, or happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur (e.g., clear, lengthy break since last use; strong evidence the use will not occur again).
(B) A demonstrated intent not to abuse any drugs in the future, such as:
(
1
) Abstaining from drug use.
(
2
) Disassociating from drug-using associates and contacts.
(
3
) Changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used.
(C) Abuse of prescription drugs followed a severe or prolonged illness during which these drugs were prescribed and abuse has since ended.
(D) Satisfactory completion of a prescribed drug treatment program, including but not limited to rehabilitation and aftercare requirements without recurrence of abuse, and a favorable prognosis by a duly qualified medical professional.
(6) A CAC will not be issued to a person if a statutory or regulatory bar prevents the individual's contract employment; or would prevent Federal employment under circumstances that furnish a reasonable basis to believe that issuance of a CAC poses an unacceptable risk.
(i) The purpose of this standard is to verify whether there is a bar on contract employment, and whether the contract employee is subject to a Federal employment debarment for reasons that also pose an unacceptable risk in the contracting context. For example, a person's 5-year bar on Federal employment based on a felony conviction related to inciting a riot or civil disorder, as specified in 5 U.S.C. 7313, may indicate that granting a CAC poses an unacceptable risk to persons, property, and assets in U.S. Government facilities.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) A debarment was imposed by OPM, DoD, or other Federal agencies when the conduct poses an unacceptable risk to people, property, or information systems.
(B) The suitability debarment was based on the presence of serious suitability issues when the conduct poses an unacceptable risk to people, property, or information systems.
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) Applicant proves the reason(s) for the debarment no longer exists.
(B) The debarment is job or position-specific and is not applicable to the job currently under consideration.
(7) A CAC will not be issued to a person if the individual has knowingly and willfully engaged in acts or activities designed to overthrow the U.S. Government by force.
(i) Individuals entrusted with access to U.S. Government property and information systems must not put the U.S. Government at risk.
(ii) Therefore, conditions that may be disqualifying include:
(A) Illegal involvement in, support of, training to commit, or advocacy of any act of sabotage, espionage, treason or sedition against the United States of America.
(B) Association or agreement with persons who attempt to or commit any of the acts in paragraph (d)(7)(ii)(A) of this section with the specific intent to further those unlawful aims.
(C) Association or agreement with persons or organizations that advocate, threaten, or use force or violence, or use any other illegal or unconstitutional means in an effort to overthrow or influence the U.S. Government.
(iii) Circumstances relevant to the determination of whether there is a reasonable basis to believe there is an unacceptable risk include:
(A) The behavior happened so long ago, was minor, or happened under such unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual's current trustworthiness.
(B) The person was not aware of the person's or organization's dedication to illegal, treasonous, or seditious activities or did not have the specific intent to further the illegal, treasonous, or seditious ends of the person or organization.
(C) The individual did not have the specific intent to incite others to advocate, threaten, or use force or violence, or use any other illegal or unconstitutional means to engage in illegal, treasonous, or seditious activities.
(D) The individual's involvement in the activities was for an official purpose.
Pt. 158

# PART 158—OPERATIONAL CONTRACT SUPPORT (OCS) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
Sec.
158.1
Purpose.
158.2
Applicability.
158.3
Definitions.
158.4
Policy.
158.5
Procedures.
158.6
Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.
Appendix A to Part 158—Related Policies

# Authority:
Pub. L. 110-181; Pub. L. 110-417.

# Source:
88 FR 26480, May 1, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 158.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and provides procedures for operational contract support (OCS), including contract support integration, contracting support, management, and deployment of defense contractor personnel in applicable operations outside the United States.
§ 158.2
Applicability.
This part applies to contracts and contractor personnel supporting DoD Components operating outside the United States in contingency operations, humanitarian assistance, or peace operations and other activities, including operations and exercises as determined by a Combatant Commander or as directed by the Secretary of Defense.
§ 158.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, the following terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
Acquisition.
The acquiring by contract with appropriated funds of supplies or services (including construction) by and for the use of the Federal Government through purchase or lease, whether the supplies or services are already in existence or must be created, developed, demonstrated, and evaluated. Acquisition begins at the point when agency needs are established and includes the description of requirements to satisfy agency needs, solicitation and selection of sources, award of contracts, contract financing, contract performance, contract administration, and those technical and management functions directly related to the process of fulfilling agency needs by contract.
Applicable operations.
Contingency operations, humanitarian assistance, or peace operations conducted outside the United States and other activities, including operations and exercises outside the United States as determined by a combatant commander (CCDR) or as directed by the Secretary of Defense.
Austere environment.
Areas where applicable operations may be conducted that are in remote, isolated locations, where access to modern comforts and resources may be limited or non-existent.
Civil augmentation program.
External support contracts designed to augment Military Department logistics capabilities with contracted support in both preplanned and short-notice operations.
Contingency contract.
A legally binding agreement for supplies, services, and/or construction let by a U.S. Government contracting officer in the operational area, or that has a prescribed area of performance within an operational area.
Contingency operation.
A military operation that is either designated by the Secretary of Defense as a contingency operation or becomes a contingency operation as a matter of law as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13).
Contract administration.
The processes and procedures of contracting, from contract award through closeout, that includes oversight efforts by contracting professionals and designated non-contracting personnel to ensure that supplies, services, and/or construction are delivered and/or performed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract.
Contract support integration.
The coordination and synchronization of contracted support executed in a designated operational area in support of military operations.
Contracting.
Purchasing, renting, leasing, or otherwise obtaining supplies or services from nonfederal sources. Contracting includes description (but not determination) of supplies and services required, selection, and solicitation of sources, preparation and award of contracts, and all phases of contract administration. It does not include making grants or cooperative agreements.
Contracting officer.
A person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate contracts and make related determinations and findings. The term includes certain authorized representatives of the contracting officer acting within the limits of their authority as delegated by the contracting officer. “Administrative contracting officer (ACO)” refers to a contracting officer who is administering contracts. “Termination contracting officer
(TCO)” refers to a contracting officer who is settling terminated contracts. A single contracting officer may be responsible for duties in any or all of these areas.
Contracting Officer's Representative (COR).
An individual, including a contracting officer's technical representative (COTR), designated and authorized in writing by the contracting officer to perform specific technical or administrative functions.
Contracting support.
The coordination of contracts and execution of contracting authority by a warranted contracting officer that legally binds commercial entities to perform contractual requirements in support of DoD operational requirements.
Contractor management.
The oversight and integration of contractor personnel and associated equipment providing support to military operations.
Contractor personnel.
Any individual, employed by a firm, corporation, partnership, or association, employed under contract with the DoD to furnish services, supplies, or construction. Contractor personnel may include U.S. citizens and host nation and third country national (TCN) individuals.
Contractor personnel accountability.
The process of identifying, capturing, and recording the personally identifiable information and assigned permanent duty location of an individual contractor employee through the use of a designated database.
Contractor personnel visibility.
Information on the daily location, movement, status, and identity of contractor personnel.
Contractors Authorized to Accompany the Force (CAAF).
Contractor personnel and all tiers of subcontractor personnel authorized to accompany U.S. Armed Forces in applicable operations outside of the United States who have been afforded this status through the issuance of a Letter of Authorization (LOA). CAAF generally include all U.S. citizen and TCN employees not normally residing within the operational area whose area of performance is in the direct vicinity of the U.S. Armed Forces and who are routinely co-located with the U.S. Armed Forces. In some cases, CCDR subordinate commanders may designate mission-essential host nation (HN) or local national (LN) contractor personnel (
e.g.,
interpreters) as CAAF. CAAF includes contractor personnel previously identified as contractors deploying with the force. CAAF status does not apply to contractor personnel within U.S. territory working in support of contingency operations outside the United States.
Defense contractor.
Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or other legal non-Federal entity that enters into a contract directly with the DoD to furnish services, supplies, or construction.
DoD Components.
Includes the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands (CCMDs), the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities.
Essential contractor service.
A service provided by a firm or an individual under contract to the DoD to support mission-essential functions, such as support of vital systems, including ships owned, leased, or operated in support of military missions or roles at sea; associated support activities, including installation, garrison, and base support services; and similar services provided to foreign military sales customers under the Security Assistance Program. Services are essential if the effectiveness of defense systems or operations has the potential to be seriously impaired by the interruption of these services, as determined by the appropriate functional commander or civilian equivalent.
Expeditionary Contract Administration (ECA).
Contract administration conducted during joint or other expeditionary operations. Formerly known as the Contingency Contract Administrative Services or CCAS.
Expeditionary operations.
Activities organized to achieve a specific objective in a foreign country.
External support contracts.
Contracts awarded by contracting organizations whose contracting authority does not derive directly from the theater support contracting head(s) of contracting activity or from systems support contracting authorities.
Host nation (HN).
A nation that permits, either in writing or through other official provision of consent, government representatives or agencies and/or agencies of another nation to operate, under specified conditions, within its territory.
Hostile environment.
Operational environment in which local government forces, whether opposed to or receptive to operations that a unit intends to conduct, do not have control of the territory and population in the intended operational area.
Isolated personnel.
U.S. military, DoD civilians, and contractor personnel (and others designated by the President or Secretary of Defense) who are unaccounted for as an individual or a group while supporting an applicable operation and are, or may be, in a situation where they must survive, evade, resist, or escape.
Law of war.
The treaties and customary international law binding on the United States that regulate: the resort to armed force; the conduct of hostilities and the protection of war victims in international and non-international armed conflict; belligerent occupation; and the relationships between belligerent, neutral, and non-belligerent States. Sometimes also called the “law of armed conflict” or “international humanitarian law,” the law of war is specifically intended to address the circumstances of armed conflict. Consult the DoD Law of War Manual (available at
https://dod.defense.gov/Portals/1/Documents/pubs/DoD%20Law%20of%20War%20Manual%20-%20June%202015%20Updated%20Dec%202016.pdf?ver=2016-12-13-172036-190
) for an authoritative statement on the law of war.
Letter of authorization (LOA).
A document issued by a contracting officer or his or her designee that authorizes contractor personnel to accompany the force to travel to, from, and within an operational area, and outlines U.S. Government authorized support authorizations within the operational area, as agreed to under the terms and conditions of the contract. For more information, see 48 CFR subpart 225.3.
Local national (LN).
An individual who is a permanent resident of the nation in which the United States is conducting operations.
Long-term care.
A variety of services that help a person with comfort, personal, or wellness needs. These services assist in the activities of daily living, including such things as bathing and dressing. Sometimes known as custodial care.
Mission-essential functions.
Those organizational activities that must be performed under all circumstances to achieve DoD component missions or responsibilities, as determined by the appropriate functional commander or civilian equivalent. Failure to perform or sustain these functions would significantly affect the DoD's ability to provide vital services or exercise authority, direction, and control.
Non-CAAF.
Personnel who are not designated as CAAF, such as LN employees and non-LN employees who are permanent residents in the operational area or TCNs not routinely residing with the U.S. Armed Forces (and TCN expatriates who are permanent residents in the operational area), who perform support functions away from the close proximity of, and do not reside with, the U.S. Armed Forces. U.S. Government-furnished support to non-CAAF is typically limited to force protection, emergency medical care, and basic human needs (
e.g.,
bottled water, latrine facilities, security, and food when necessary) when performing their jobs in the direct vicinity of the U.S. Armed Forces.
Operational area.
An overarching term encompassing more descriptive terms (such as area of responsibility and joint operations area) for geographic areas where military operations are conducted.
Operational contract support (OCS).
The ability to orchestrate and synchronize the provision of integrated contract support and management of contractor personnel providing support to command-directed operations within a designated operational area.
Operationally critical support.
A critical source of supply for airlift, sealift, intermodal transportation services, or logistical support that is essential to the mobilization, deployment, or sustainment of the U.S. Armed Forces in applicable operations.
Prime contractor.
Any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that has entered into a contract with the United States government.
Replacement centers.
Centers at selected installations that ensure necessary accountability, training, and processing actions are taken to prepare personnel for onward movement and deployment to a designated operational area.
Requiring activity.
A military or other designated supported organization that identifies the need for and receives contracted support to meet mission requirements during military operations.
Subcontractor.
Any supplier, distributor, vendor, or firm that furnishes supplies or services to or for a prime contractor or another subcontractor.
Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker-Enterprise Suite (SPOT-ES).
A common joint database used to maintain contractor personnel visibility and accountability in applicable operations. References to SPOT-ES in this part will refer to that system or any database system that supersedes it.
Systems support contract.
Contracts awarded by Military Service acquisition program management offices that provide fielding support, technical support, maintenance support, and, in some cases, repair parts support, for selected military weapon and support systems.
Theater business clearance.
A CCDR policy or process to ensure visibility of and control over systems support and external support contracts executing or delivering support in designated areas of operations.
Theater support contract.
A type of contract awarded by contracting officers deployed to an operational area serving under the direct contracting authority of the Military Service component, special operations force command, or designated joint contracting authority for the designated operation.
Total force.
The organizations, units, and individuals that comprise the DoD resources for implementing the National Security Strategy. It includes DoD Active and Reserve Component military personnel, military retired members, DoD civilian personnel (including foreign national direct- and indirect-hires, as well as nonappropriated fund employees), contractor personnel, and host-nation support personnel. (For source information, see paragraph (a) of appendix A to this part.)
Uncertain environment.
Operational environment in which host government forces, whether opposed to or receptive to operations that a unit intends to conduct, do not have totally effective control of the territory and population in the intended operational area.
§ 158.4
Policy.
It is DoD policy that:
(a) Defense contractor personnel are part of the total force. (See paragraph (a) of appendix A of this part).
(b) DoD Components implement OCS functions, including contract support integration, contracting support, and contractor management, during applicable operations.
(c) DoD Components will use contracted support only in appropriate situations, consistent with 48 CFR subpart 7.5, 48 CFR subpart 207.5, and Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) Policy Letter 11-01 (available at
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2011/09/12/2011-23165/publication-of-the-office-of-federal-procurement-policy-ofpp-policy-letter-11-01-performance-of
), and paragraph (b) of appendix A to this part.
(d) Generally, contractors are responsible for providing their employees with all life, mission, medical, logistics, and administrative support necessary to perform the contract. However, in many operations, especially in those in which conditions are austere, hostile, and/or non-permissive, the decision may be made that it is in the interest of the U.S. Government to allow for selected life, mission, medical, logistics, and administrative support to be provided to contractor personnel to ensure continuation of essential contractor services, consistent with DoD regulations. Contractors authorized to accompany the force (CAAF) may receive U.S. Government-furnished support commensurate with the operational situation in accordance with the terms of the contract.
(e) A common joint database (
i.e.,
the Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker-Enterprise Suite
(SPOT-ES) or its successor) will be used to maintain contractor personnel visibility and accountability in applicable operations. References to SPOT-ES in this part will refer to that system or any database system that supersedes it for contractor personnel visibility and accountability.
(f) Solicitations and contracts will:
(1) Require defense contractors to provide personnel who are ready to perform contract duties in applicable operations and environments by verifying the medical, dental, and psychological fitness of their employees and, if applicable, by ensuring currency of any professional qualifications and associated certification requirements needed for employees to perform contractual duties.
(2) Incorporate contractual terms and clauses into the contract that are consistent with applicable host nation (HN) laws and agreements or designated operational area performance considerations.
(g) Contracts for highly sensitive, classified, cryptologic, or intelligence projects and programs must implement this rule to the maximum extent possible, consistent with applicable laws, Executive orders, presidential directives, and relevant DoD issuances. To the extent that contracting activities are unable to comply with this rule, they should submit a request for a waiver to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (USD(A
S)). Waiver requests should include specific information providing the rationale regarding the inability to comply with this rule. The USD(A
S) will consider these requests in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security.
§ 158.5
Procedures.
(a)
Planning considerations and requirements; requirements for publication.
CCDRs will make management policies and specific OCS requirements for contractual support available to affected contractor personnel. The Geographic Combatant Commander (GCC) OCS web page will set forth the following:
(1) Theater business clearance (TBC) requirements for contracts currently being performed and delivering contracted support in the CCDR's AOR.
(2) Restrictions imposed by applicable local laws, international law, status of forces agreements (SOFAs), and other agreements with the HN.
(3) CAAF-related deployment requirements, including, but not limited to:
(i) Pre-deployment and required individual protective equipment (IPE) training.
(ii) Physical health standards.
(iii) Immunization and medical requirements.
(iv) Deployment procedures and theater reception.
(4) Reporting requirements for accountability and visibility of contractor personnel and associated contracts.
(5) Operational security (OPSEC) plans and restrictions.
(6) Force protection policies.
(7) Personnel recovery procedures.
(8) Availability of medical and other authorized U.S. Government support (AGS).
(9) Redeployment procedures, including disposition of U.S. Government-furnished equipment.
(b)
Contractual relationships.
The contract provides the only legal basis for the contractual relationship between the DoD and the contractor. The contracting officer is the only individual with the legal authority to enter into such a binding relationship with the contractor.
(1) Commanders have the ability to restrict installation access, and contractor personnel must comply with applicable CCDR and local commander force protection policies. However, military commanders or unit personnel do not have contracting authority over contractors or contractor personnel and may not direct contractors or contractor personnel to perform contractual tasks. Moreover, the contract does not provide a basis for commanders to exercise operational control or tactical control over contractors or their personnel or to assign or attach contractors or their personnel to a command or organization.
(2) The contract must specify:
(i) The terms and conditions under which the contractor is to perform, including minimum acceptable professional and technical standards.
(ii) The method by which the contracting officer will notify the contractor of the deployment procedures to process contractor personnel who are deploying to the operational area.
(iii) The specific contractual support terms and agreement between the contractor and DoD.
(iv) The appropriate flow-down of provisions and clauses to subcontractors and state that the service performed by contractor personnel is not considered to be active duty or active service. For more information, see paragraph (c) in appendix A to this part, and 38 U.S.C. 106, “Active Duty Service Determinations for Civilian or Contractual Groups.”
(3) The contract must contain applicable clauses to ensure efficient deployment, accountability, visibility, protection, and redeployment of contractor personnel and detail authorized levels of health service, sustainment, and other support that is authorized to be provided to contractor personnel supporting applicable operations outside the United States.
(c)
Restrictions on contractors performing inherently governmental functions.
(1) Paragraph (b) of appendix A of this part, 48 CFR subpart 7.5, 48 CFR subpart 207.5; Public Law 105-270 and Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-76 (available at
https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/circulars/A76/a76_incl_tech_correction.pdf
) bar inherently governmental functions and duties from private sector performance.
(2) Contractor personnel may provide support during applicable operations, including, but not limited to:
(i) Transporting munitions and other supplies.
(ii) Providing communications support.
(iii) Performing maintenance functions for military equipment.
(iv) Providing force protection and private security services.
(v) Providing foreign language interpretation and translation services.
(vi) Providing logistics services, such as billeting and messing.
(vii) Intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance support.
(viii) Commercial air assets.
(3) The requiring official will review each service performed by contractor personnel in applicable operations on a case-by-case basis to ensure compliance with paragraph (b) of appendix A of this part and applicable laws and international agreements.
(4) Restrictions on use of contractor personnel for private security services. A contractor may be authorized to provide private security services only if such authorization is consistent with applicable U.S., local, and international law, including applicable agreements with the HN or other applicable international agreements, and 32 CFR part 159. For more information, see paragraph (b) of appendix A of this part and 48 CFR subpart 252.2, which provide specific procedures and guidance.
(d)
Combating trafficking in persons.
Trafficking in persons is a violation of U.S. law and internationally recognized human rights, and is incompatible with DoD core values.
(1) 48 CFR subpart 222.17 and 48 CFR 52.222-50 also known and referred to as Combating Trafficking in Persons, describe how contractors, contracting officers and their representatives, and commanders must deter activities such as prostitution, forced labor, and other related activities contributing to trafficking in persons. For more information, see paragraph (d) of appendix A to this part.
(2) Contracts in support of applicable operations will include terms and provisions that require that the contractor remove personnel from the performance of the contract and return any of its personnel who have been determined to have engaged in any of the activities mentioned in paragraph (h)(4)(v)(H) of this section from the operational area to the home of record, point of origin, or an authorized location at the end of contract performance or sooner as directed by the contracting officer. Once notified of such an incident, the contracting officer will notify the commander responsible in the AOR and provide any information required to support an investigation. For more information, see 48 CFR subpart 222.17 and 48 CFR subpart 42.15.
(e)
Law of war compliance.
Contract work statements for contractors and
their subcontractors must comply with the policies in paragraph (gg) of appendix A to this part and require contractors that engage in activities governed by the law of war to implement effective programs to prevent violations of the law of war by their employees and subcontractors, including programs for law of war dissemination and periodic training commensurate with each individual's duties and responsibilities. Paragraph (gg) of appendix A includes, among others, DoD policy that “[a]ll military and U.S. civilian employees, contractor personnel, and subcontractors assigned to or accompanying a DoD Component must report through their chain of command all reportable incidents, including those involving allegations of non-DoD personnel having violated the law of war.” Contracts in support of applicable operations must include provisions to require contractor employees to report reportable incidents as defined in paragraph (gg) of appendix A to this part to the appropriate Commander (
e.g.,
the commander of the unit they are accompanying or the installation to which they are assigned) or command-designated office.
(f)
CAAF designation, legal status, credentialing, and security clearance requirements
—(1)
CAAF designation.
(i) CAAF designation is provided to contractor personnel, including all tiers of subcontractor personnel, through a letter of authorization (LOA). CAAF generally include all U.S. citizen and third country national (TCN) employees not normally residing within the operational area whose area of performance is in the direct vicinity of the U.S. Armed Forces and who routinely are co-located with the U.S. Armed Forces, especially in non-permissive environments. Personnel co-located with the U.S. Armed Forces will be afforded CAAF status through an LOA.
(ii) In some cases, CCDRs or subordinate commanders may designate mission-essential HN or LN contractor personnel as CAAF unless otherwise precluded by HN law, a SOFA, or other agreement. In general, LNs are only afforded CAAF status when they assume great personal risk to perform an essential function.
(iii) Personnel who do not receive a CAAF designation are referred to as non-CAAF. Individuals' CAAF status may change depending on where their employers or the provisions of their contract details them to work. CAAF designation may affect, but does not necessarily affect, a person's legal status under the law of war and the treatment to which that person is entitled under the 1949 Geneva Conventions if that person falls into the power of the enemy during international armed conflict. Although CAAF are regarded as “persons authorized to accompany the armed forces,” personnel who are not CAAF may also receive this status under the law of war. For more information, see section 4.15 of paragraph (e) of appendix A of this part. In addition, although CAAF designation and access to AGS often coincide, CAAF status does not determine AGS provided.
(2)
Legal status.
In implementing this part, the DoD Component heads must abide by applicable laws, regulations, international agreements, and DoD policy as they relate to contractor personnel performing contractual support in support of applicable operations.
(i)
HN and third country laws.
All contractor personnel must comply with applicable HN and third country laws. The applicability of HN and third country laws may be affected by international agreements (
e.g.,
agreements between the United States and the HN) and customary international law (
e.g.,
limits imposed by customary international law on the reach of third country laws).
(A) The United States, HN, or other countries may hire contractor personnel whose status may change (
e.g.,
from non-CAAF to CAAF) depending on where in the operational AOR their employers or the provisions of their contracts detail them to work.
(B) CCDRs, as well as subordinate commanders, Military Service Component commanders, the Directors of the Defense Agencies, and Directors of DoD Field Activities should recognize limiting factors regarding the employment of LN and TCN personnel. Limiting factors include, but are not limited to:
(
1
) Imported labor worker permits.
(
2
) Workforce and hour restrictions.
(
3
) Medical, life, and disability insurance coverage.
(
4
) Taxes, customs, and duties.
(
5
) Cost of living allowances.
(
6
) Hardship differentials.
(
7
) Access to classified information.
(
8
) Hazardous duty pay.
(ii)
U.S. laws.
U.S. citizens and CAAF, with some exceptions, are subject to U.S. laws and U.S. Government regulations.
(A) All U.S. citizen and TCN CAAF are subject to potential prosecutorial action under the criminal jurisdiction of the United States, including, but not limited to, 18 U.S.C. 3261, also known and referred to in this part as the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act of 2000 (MEJA). MEJA extends U.S. federal criminal jurisdiction to certain contractor personnel for offenses committed outside U.S. territory.
(B) The March 10, 2008, Secretary of Defense Memorandum states that contractor personnel are subject to prosecution pursuant to 10 U.S.C. Chapter 47, also known and referred to in this part as the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), when serving overseas in support of a declared war or contingency, and provides guidance to commanders on the exercise of this UCMJ jurisdiction.
(C) Other U.S. law may allow prosecution of offenses by contractor personnel (
e.g.,
18 U.S.C. 7).
(3)
1949 Geneva Conventions.
The 1949 Geneva Conventions, including the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, may be applicable to certain contractor personnel who fall into the power of the enemy during international armed conflict.
(i) All contractor personnel may be at risk of injury or death incidental to enemy actions while supporting military operations.
(ii) Contractor personnel with CAAF status and other contractor personnel who have been authorized to accompany the U.S. Armed Forces and who are at risk of capture and detention by the enemy as prisoners of war will receive an appropriate identification card required by the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, consistent with paragraph (f) of appendix A to this part.
(iii) CAAF may be used in support of applicable operations, consistent with the terms of U.S. Government authorization. If they fall into the power of the enemy during international armed conflict, contractor personnel with CAAF status are entitled to prisoner of war status.
(4)
Credentialing.
Contracts must require CAAF to receive an identification card with the Geneva Convention's category of persons authorized to accompany the armed forces. For more information, see paragraphs (f) through (h) of appendix A to this part. At the time of identification card issuance, CAAF must present their SPOT-ES-generated LOA as proof of eligibility.
(i) Sponsorship must incorporate the processes for confirming eligibility for an identification card. The sponsor is the person affiliated with the DoD or another Federal agency that takes responsibility for verifying and authorizing an applicant's need for a Geneva Convention identification card. A DoD official or employee must sponsor applicants for a common access card (CAC).
(ii) Individuals who have multiple DoD personnel category codes (
e.g.,
an individual who is both a reservist and a contractor) will receive a separate identification card in each personnel category for which they are eligible. Individuals under a single personnel category code may not hold multiple current identification cards of the same form.
(5)
Security clearance requirements.
To the extent necessary, the contract must require the contractor to provide personnel who have the appropriate security clearance or who are able to satisfy the appropriate background investigation requirements to obtain access required to perform contractual requirements in support of the applicable operation.
(g)
Considerations for support to contractors
—(1)
U.S. Government support.
Generally, contracts supporting applicable operations must require contractors to provide to their personnel all life, mission, medical, and administrative support necessary to perform the contractual requirements and meet CCDR guidance posted on the GCC OCS
web page. In some operations, especially those in which conditions are austere, uncertain, or non-permissive, the CCDR may decide it is in the U.S. Government's interest for the DoD to allow contractor personnel access, consistent with DoD regulations, to selected AGS. The contract must state the level of access to AGS in its terms and conditions.
(i) In operations where conditions are austere, uncertain, or non-permissive, the contracting officer will consult with the requiring activity to determine if it is in the U.S. Government's interests to allow for selected life, mission, medical, and administrative support to certain contractor personnel.
(ii) The solicitation and contract must specify the level of AGS that the U.S. Government will provide to contractor personnel and what support provided to the contractor personnel is reimbursable to the U.S. Government.
(iii) Access to DoD benefits facilitated by the identification card may be granted to contractors under certain circumstances. For more information, see paragraph (i) of appendix A to this part.
(2)
IPE.
When necessary or directed by the CCDR, the contracting officer will include language in the contract authorizing the issuance of military IPE (
e.g.,
chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear (CBRN) protective ensemble, body armor, ballistic helmet) to contractor personnel as part of AGS.
(i) Typically, IPE will be issued by the central issue facility at the deployment center before deployment to the designated operational area and must be accounted for and returned to the U.S. Government or otherwise accounted for, in accordance with appropriate DoD Component regulations, directives, and instructions.
(ii) Contractor personnel deployment training will include training on the proper care, fitting, and maintenance of protective equipment, whether issued by the U.S. Government or provided by the contractor in accordance with the contractual requirements. This training will include practical exercises within mission-oriented protective posture levels.
(iii) When the terms and conditions of a contract require a contractor to provide IPE, such IPE must meet minimum standards as defined by the contract.
(3)
Clothing.
Contractors, or their personnel, must provide their own personal clothing, including casual and work clothing required to perform the contract requirements.
(i) Generally, CCDRs will not authorize the issuance of military clothing to contractor personnel or will not allow the wearing of military or military look-alike uniforms. Contractor personnel are prohibited from wearing military clothing unless specifically authorized in writing by the CCDR. However, a CCDR or subordinate joint force commander (JFC) deployed forward may authorize contractor personnel to wear standard uniform items for operational reasons. Contracts must include terms and clauses that require that this authorization be provided in writing by the CCDR and that the uniforms are maintained in the possession of authorized contractor personnel at all times.
(ii) When commanders issue any type of standard uniform item to contractor personnel, care must be taken to ensure that contractor personnel are distinguishable from military personnel through the use of distinctive patches, arm bands, nametags, or headgear, consistent with force protection measures, and that contractor personnel carry the CCDR's written authorization with them at all times.
(4)
Weapons.
Contractor personnel are not authorized to possess or carry firearms or ammunition during applicable operations, except as provided in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section and 32 CFR part 159. The contract will provide the terms and conditions governing the possession of firearms by contractor personnel. Information on all weapons authorized for contractors and their personnel will be entered into the SPOT-ES database.
(5)
Mortuary affairs.
The DoD Mortuary Affairs Program, as described in paragraph (j) of appendix A to this part, covers all CAAF who die while performing contractual requirements in support of the U.S. Armed Forces.
Mortuary affairs support and transportation will be provided on a reimbursable basis for the recovery, identification, and disposition of remains and personal effects of CAAF.
(i) Every effort must be made to identify remains and account for un-recovered remains of contractor personnel and their dependents who die in military operations, training accidents, and other incidents. The remains of contractor personnel who die as the result of an incident in support of military operations are afforded the same dignity and respect afforded to remains of service members. For more information, see paragraph (k) of appendix A to this part.
(ii) The DoD may provide mortuary affairs support and transportation on a reimbursable basis for the recovery, identification, and disposition of remains and personal effects of non-CAAF at the request of the Department of State (DOS) and in accordance with this rule, applicable agreements with the HN, and applicable contract provisions. The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) will coordinate this support with the DOS, including for cost reimbursement to the DoD Component for the provision of this support.
(iii) The responsibility for coordinating the transfer of non-CAAF remains to the HN or affected nation resides with the GCC in coordination with the DOS, through the respective embassies, or through the International Committee of the Red Cross, the International Federation of the Red Cross or Red Crescent Societies, as appropriate, and in accordance with applicable contract clauses.
(6)
Medical support and evacuation.
Generally, the DoD will provide only resuscitative care, stabilization, and hospitalization at military medical treatment facilities (MTFs) and assistance with patient movement in emergencies where loss of life, limb, or eyesight could occur. The DoD Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG) and the GCC OCS web pages contain theater-specific contract language to provide contract terms to clarify available healthcare for contractor personnel. During operations in austere, uncertain, or hostile environments, CAAF may encounter situations in which they cannot access adequate medical support in the local area.
(i) All costs associated with the treatment and transportation of contractor personnel to the selected civilian facility are reimbursable to the U.S. Government and are the responsibility of contractor personnel, their employers, or their health insurance providers. For more information, see paragraph (l) of appendix A to this part. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to affect the allowability of costs incurred under a contract.
(ii) Medical support and evacuation procedures:
(A) All CAAF will normally be afforded emergency medical and dental care if injured while supporting applicable operations. Additionally, non-CAAF who are injured while in the vicinity of the U.S. Armed Forces while supporting applicable operations also normally will receive emergency medical and dental care. Emergency medical and dental care includes medical care situations in which life, limb, or eyesight is jeopardized. Examples of emergency medical and dental care include:
(
1
) Examination and initial treatment of victims of sexual assault.
(
2
) Refills of prescriptions for life-dependent drugs.
(
3
) Repair of broken bones, lacerations, and infections.
(
4
) Traumatic injuries to the teeth.
(B) MTFs normally will not authorize or provide primary medical or dental care to CAAF. When required and authorized by the CCDR or subordinate JFC, this support must be specifically authorized under the terms and conditions of the contract and detailed in the corresponding LOA. Primary care is not authorized for non-CAAF. Primary care includes:
(
1
) Routine inpatient and outpatient services.
(
2
) Non-emergency evacuation.
(
3
) Pharmaceutical support (with the exception of emergency refills of prescriptions for life-dependent drugs).
(
4
) Non-emergency dental services.
(
5
) Other medical support, as determined by the CCDR or JFC based on recommendations from the cognizant
medical authority and the existing capabilities of the forward-deployed MTFs.
(C) The DoD will not provide long-term care to contractor personnel.
(D) The CCDR or subordinate commander has the authority to quarantine or restrict movement of contractor personnel. For more information, see paragraph (m) of appendix A to this part.
(E) When CAAF are evacuated for medical reasons from the designated operational area to MTFs funded by the Defense Health Program, normal reimbursement policies will apply for services rendered by the facility. If CAAF require medical evacuation outside the United States, the sending MTF staff will assist the CAAF in making arrangements for transfer to a civilian facility of the CAAF's choice. When U.S. forces provide emergency medical care to LN contractor personnel, these patients will use HN transportation means, when possible, for evacuation or transportation to their local medical systems. For more information, see paragraph (n) of appendix A to this part.
(7)
Other AGS.
48 CFR subpart 225.3 lists types of support that may be authorized for contractor personnel who are deployed with or otherwise provide support to applicable operations, which may include transportation to and within the operational area, mess operations, quarters, phone service, religious support, and laundry.
(i) Contractor personnel of U.S. owned-contractors who are supporting DoD activities may be authorized the use of the military postal service. For more information, see paragraph (o) of appendix A to this part. The extent of postal support will be set forth in the contract. The provisions for postal support in such contracts must be reviewed and approved by the applicable CCDR, or the designated representative, and the Military Department concerned before execution of the contract.
(ii) Morale, welfare, and recreation and exchange services are authorized for contractor personnel who are U.S. citizens supporting DoD activities outside the United States. For more information, see paragraphs (p) and (q) of appendix A to this part.
(h)
Accountability and visibility of contracts and contractor personnel.
(1) During applicable operations, contractors will use SPOT-ES as follows:
(i) All CAAF will register in SPOT-ES by name.
(ii) Non-CAAF will be registered in SPOT-ES by name if they are performing on a DoD contract for at least 30 consecutive days unless a lesser number of days is requested by the CCDR or if they require access to a U.S. or coalition-controlled installation. Contracting officers will ensure non-CAAF who require access to U.S. or coalition-controlled installations are registered in SPOT-ES before requesting or receiving installation access.
(iii) All private security contractor personnel and all other contractor personnel authorized to carry weapons, regardless of the length of the performance or contract value, will register in SPOT-ES by name.
(iv) During operations other than contingency operations, humanitarian assistance, or peace operations, contractors will use SPOT-ES in situations required by the CCDR and as follows:
(2) To account for:
(i) All U.S. citizen and TCN contractor personnel.
(ii) All private security contractor personnel and all other contractor personnel authorized to carry weapons, where the designated area and place of performance are outside the United States, regardless of the length of performance or contract value.
(3) The contracting officer will account for an estimated total number of LNs employed under the contract, by country or on a monthly basis.
(4) Contract linguists will register in SPOT-ES in the same manner as other contractor personnel and will also be tracked using the Contract Linguist Enterprise-wide Database. For more information, see paragraph (r) of appendix A to this part.
(5) LNs should be registered in SPOT-ES by name to improve data quality and reduce confusion during a transition to accountability requirements
during a contingency operation, which will require by-name accountability.
(6) The DoD has designated SPOT-ES as the joint web-based database to assist the CCDRs in maintaining awareness of the nature, extent, and potential risks and capabilities associated with contracted support for contingency operations, humanitarian assistance, and peacekeeping operations, or military exercises designated by the CCDR. To facilitate integration of contractors and other personnel, as directed by the USD(A
S) or the CCDR, and to ensure the accurate forecasting and provision of accountability, visibility, force protection, medical support, personnel recovery, and other related support, the following procedures will help establish, maintain, and validate the accuracy of information in the database.
(i) SPOT-ES will:
(A) Serve as the central repository for deployment status and reporting on the contractor personnel as well as other U.S. Government agency contractor personnel, as applicable. For additional information, see paragraph (s) of appendix A to this part.
(B) Track information for all DoD contracts that are awarded in support of applicable operations outside of the United States, in accordance with the SPOT Business Rules and as directed by the USD(A
S), 48 CFR subpart 225.3, or the CCDR. SPOT-ES will collect and report on:
(
1
) The total number of contractor personnel working under contracts entered into as of the end of each calendar quarter.
(
2
) The total number of contractor personnel performing security functions under contracts entered into with the DoD.
(
3
) The total number of contractor personnel killed or wounded who were performing under any contracts entered into with the DoD.
(C) Provide personnel accountability via unique identifier (
e.g.,
Electronic Data Interchange Personnel Identifier or Foreign Identification Number) of contractor personnel and other personnel, as directed by the USD(A
S), 48 CFR subpart 225.3, or the CCDR.
(D) Contain, or link to, minimum contract information necessary to:
(
1
) Establish and maintain accountability of the personnel in paragraph (g) of this section.
(
2
) Maintain information on specific equipment related to the performance of private security contracts.
(
3
) Maintain oversight information on the contracted support in applicable operations.
(E) Comply with:
(
1
) The personnel identity protection program requirements found in paragraphs (t) and (u) of appendix A to this part.
(
2
) The DoD Information Enterprise architecture. For more information, see paragraph (v) of appendix A to this part.
(
3
) The interoperability and secure sharing of information requirements found in paragraphs (w) through (y) of appendix A to this part.
(ii) Before registering in SPOT-ES, contracting officers, company administrators, and U.S. Government administrators or authorities must meet minimum training requirements in the SPOT Business Rules.
(iii) The contractor must enter all required data into SPOT-ES before its employees may deploy to or enter a theater of operations, and maintain such data, as directed by the USD(A
S), 48 CFR subpart 225.3, or the CCDR.
(iv) The contracting officer will enter the DoD contract services or capabilities for all contracts that are awarded in support of applicable operations, including theater support, external support, and systems support contracts, into SPOT-ES consistent with 48 CFR 252.225-7040.
(v) In accordance with applicable acquisition policy and regulations and under the terms and conditions of each affected contract, all contractors awarded contracts that support applicable operations must input employee data and maintain accountability, by name, of designated contractor personnel in SPOT-ES as required by 48 CFR 252.225-7040.
(A) Contractors must maintain current status of the daily location of their employees and, when requested, submit to the COR up-to-date, real-
time information reflecting all personnel deployed or to be deployed in support of applicable operations.
(B) Prime contractors must enter up-to-date information regarding their subcontractors at all tiers into SPOT-ES.
(vi) In all cases, users providing classified information in response to the requirements of this part must report and maintain that information on systems approved for the level of classification of the information provided.
(7) The contracting officer or his or her designee will ensure a SPOT-ES-generated LOA has been issued to all CAAF who are approved to deploy, as required by 48 CFR 252.225-7040, and selected non-CAAF (
e.g.,
LN and non-LN employees who are permanent residents in the operational area, or TCNs not routinely residing with the U.S. Armed Forces who perform support functions away from the close proximity of, and do not reside with, the U.S. Armed Forces, and private security contractors), pursuant to 48 CFR subpart 225.3, or as otherwise designated by the CCDR.
(i) The contract will require that all contractor personnel issued an LOA carry the LOA with them at all times.
(ii) [Reserved].
(i)
Theater admission requirements.
Special area, country, and theater personnel clearance documents must be current, in accordance with the DoD FCG, and coordinated with affected agencies to ensure that entry requirements do not adversely affect accomplishment of mission requirements.
(1) CAAF employed in support of DoD missions are considered DoD-sponsored personnel for DoD FCG purposes.
(2) Contracting officers must ensure contracts include a requirement for contractor personnel to meet theater personnel clearance requirements and obtain personnel clearances through the Aircraft and Personnel Automated Clearance System before entering a designated theater of operations. For more information, see paragraph (z) of appendix A to this part.
(3) Contracts must require contractor personnel to obtain proper identification credentials, such as passports, visas, and other documents required to enter and exit a designated operational area, and have a required Geneva Conventions identification card, or other appropriate DoD credential from the deploying center.
(j)
Deployment procedures.
Contracts must contain terms and conditions that detail the need for contractors to follow these credentialing requirements, as required by 48 CFR subpart 225.3, 48 CFR 252.225-7040, and as outlined in the DoD FCG. At a minimum, contracting officers must ensure that contracts address operational area-specific contract requirements and the means by which the DoD will inform contractor personnel of the requirements and procedures applicable to their deployment.
(1)
Deployment center designation.
A formally designated group, joint, or Military Department deployment center will be used to conduct deployment and redeployment processing for CAAF, unless contractor-performed theater admission preparation is authorized or waived by the CCDR or designee pursuant to DoDI 3020.41, “Operational Contract Support (OCS).” If the contract contains clauses that specify another U.S. Government-authorized process that incorporates all the functions of a deployment center, such process may also be used by a contractor to conduct deployment and redeployment processing for CAAF.
(2)
Medical preparation.
(i) In accordance with § 158.6, contracts must require that contractors provide medically and physically qualified contractor personnel to perform duties in applicable operations, as outlined in the contract.
(A) Any CAAF deemed unsuitable to deploy during the deployment process due to medical or dental reasons will not be authorized to deploy.
(B) The Secretary of Defense may direct immunizations as mandatory for CAAF performing essential contractor services.
(C) For contracts that employ CAAF who are U.S. citizens, the contract must require that contractors make available the medical and dental records of deploying employees who authorize release for this purpose based on this section, applicable cognizant medical authority guidance, and relevant Military Department policy.
These records should include current panographic x-rays. For more information, see paragraph (aa) of appendix A to this part.
(ii) U.S. Government personnel may not involuntarily immunize contractor personnel or require contractor personnel to involuntarily disclose their medical records. Therefore, the contracting officer will provide contractors time to notify and/or hire employees who voluntarily consent to U.S. Government medical requirements, including to receiving U.S. Government-required immunizations and disclosing their private medical information to the U.S. Government.
(iii) All CAAF will receive medical threat pre-deployment briefings at the deployment center to communicate health risks and countermeasures in the designated operational area. For more information, see paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part.
(A) In accordance with GCC or JFC plans and orders, contracts must include terms and conditions that fully specify health readiness and force health protection capability, either as a responsibility of the contractor or the DoD Components, to ensure appropriate medical staffing in the operational area.
(B) Health surveillance activities must include plans for CAAF. For more information, see paragraphs (bb) and (cc) of appendix A to this part. Section 158.6 of this rule further addresses deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) collection and other medical requirements.
(3)
Training.
Joint training policy and guidance applies to both members of the Military Services and contractor personnel. For more information, see paragraph (dd) of appendix A to this part. CCDRs will place standing training requirements on the GCC OCS web pages for reference by contractors. Other training requirements that are specific to an applicable operation will be placed on the GCC OCS web pages shortly after identifying the requirement so that contracting officers can incorporate the training requirement into the appropriate contracts as soon as possible. Training requirements:
(i) Must be included, or incorporated by reference, in contracts employing contractor personnel supporting applicable operations.
(ii) Include specific requirements established by the CCDR and training required in accordance with this rule, 32 CFR part 159, and paragraphs (ee) through (hh) of appendix A to this part.
(4)
Deployment center procedures.
Affected contracts must require that all CAAF deploying from outside the operational area process through a designated deployment center or a U.S. Government-authorized, contractor-performed deployment processing facility before deploying to an applicable operation and redeploy in the same manner. Upon receiving the contracted company's certification that employees meet deployability requirements, the contracting officer or representative will digitally sign the LOA, which CAAF will then present to officials at the deployment center. The deployment process includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Verifying registration in SPOT-ES.
(ii) Issuing applicable U.S. Government-furnished equipment.
(iii) Verifying the completion of medical and dental screening before arrival.
(iv) Administering required theater-specific immunizations and medications not available through healthcare providers in the general public.
(v) Verifying and, when necessary, providing required training, country and cultural awareness briefings, and other training and briefings, as required by the CCDR. Examples of required training include, but are not limited to:
(A) Law of war, including the 1949 Geneva Conventions and DoD policy to implement the law of war.
(B) Law and policy applicable to detainee operations and intelligence interrogation operations, as appropriate.
(C) General orders.
(D) Standards of conduct.
(E) Force protection.
(F) Personnel recovery.
(G) First aid.
(H) Combating trafficking in persons.
(I) OPSEC.
(J) Anti-terrorism.
(K) Counterintelligence reporting.
(L) The use of CBRN protective ensemble.
(M) Deployment health threats briefing.
(5)
Certification.
Contracts supporting applicable operations must include terms and conditions requiring contractors to certify to the authorized U.S. Government representative, before deployment, that each individual has completed all required deployment processing actions.
(6)
Legal.
Contractor personnel are not entitled to military legal assistance in-theater or at the deployment center. Individual contractor personnel must have their personal legal affairs in order (
e.g.,
preparing and completing powers of attorney, wills, trusts, and estate plans) before reporting to deployment centers.
(7)
Waivers.
For required contracted support of 17 days or less in an operational area, the CCDR or designee may waive a portion of the formal procedural requirements pursuant to DoDI 3020.41, “Operational Contract Support (OCS),” which may include the CCDR or designee waiving the requirement in writing for processing through a deployment center. However, the CCDR or designee may not waive the requirements to possess proper identification cards and to establish and maintain accountability for all contractor personnel, or any medical requirement without the prior approval of the cognizant medical authority or their designee. If a contract authorizes contractor personnel to be armed, the requirements of paragraphs (c)(4) and (k)(2) of this section may not be waived.
(k)
Reception
—(1)
Designated reception site.
In applicable operations, all CAAF must enter into the operational area through a designated reception site.
(i) Based upon a visual inspection of the LOA, the site will verify that contractor personnel are entered in SPOT-ES and meet theater-specific entry requirements.
(ii) Contractor personnel already in the designated operational area when a contingency is declared must report to the designated reception site as soon as it is operational based on the terms and conditions of the contract.
(iii) When entering a designated reception site for theater entry processing, if any CAAF does not have the proper documentation to perform in an area, he or she will be refused entry into the theater, and the contracting officer will notify the contractor to take the necessary action to resolve the issue. Should the contractor fail to take action, the CAAF individual will be sent back to his or her departure point, or directed to report to the Military Service Component command or Defense Agency responsible for that specific contract, for theater entrance processing.
(2)
Contractor integration.
It is critical that CAAF brought into an operational area are properly integrated into the military operation through a formal reception process. At a minimum, they will:
(i) Meet theater entry requirements and be authorized to enter the theater.
(ii) Be accounted for in SPOT-ES.
(iii) Possess any required IPE, including CBRN protective ensemble.
(iv) Be authorized any contractually required AGS and force protection.
(l)
In-theater management
—(1)
Conduct and discipline.
Contract terms and conditions must require that CAAF comply with CCDR theater orders, applicable directives, laws, and regulations. Non-CAAF who require base access to perform contractual requirements must follow base force protection and security-related procedures, as applicable.
(i) The contracting officer may appoint a designee (usually a COR) as a liaison between the contracting officer and the contractor and requiring activity. This designee monitors and reports contractor performance and requiring activity concerns to the contracting officer. In emergency situations (
e.g.,
enemy or terrorist actions or natural disaster), the cognizant military commander may recommend or issue warnings or messages urging contractor personnel to take emergency actions to remove themselves from harm's way or to take other appropriate self-protective measures. During armed conflict, contractor personnel are not exempt from the authority that commanders may exercise to control the movement
of persons and vehicles within the immediate vicinity of operations. For more information, see sections 5.2.2.1, 13.8, and 14.6 of paragraph (e) of appendix A to this part.
(ii) The contractor is responsible for disciplining contractor personnel, as necessary and appropriate. However, in accordance with 48 CFR 252.225-7040(h)(1), the contracting officer may direct the contractor, at its own expense, to remove and replace any contractor personnel who jeopardize or interfere with mission accomplishment, who threaten force protection measures, or who fail to comply with or violate applicable requirements of the contract. Such action may:
(A) Include contractor personnel whose actual field performance (certification or professional standard) is below the contractual requirement.
(B) Be taken at U.S. Government discretion without prejudice to the contractor's rights under any other provision of the contract. A commander also has the authority to take certain actions affecting contractor personnel, such as the ability to revoke or suspend security access or impose restrictions from access to military installations or specific worksites.
(iii) CAAF, or individuals employed by or accompanying the Military Services outside the United States, are subject to potential prosecutorial action under the criminal jurisdiction of the United States, pursuant to sections 7, 2441, 2442, or 3261 of Title 18, U.S.C., or other provisions of U.S. law, including the UCMJ.
(A) Commanders possess significant authority to act whenever criminal acts are committed by anyone subject to the MEJA and UCMJ that relates to or affects the commander's responsibilities. This includes situations in which the alleged offender's precise identity or actual affiliation is undetermined. The March 10, 2008, Secretary of Defense Memorandum provides guidance to commanders on the exercise of this UCMJ jurisdiction over DoD contractor personnel serving with or accompanying the U.S. Armed Forces overseas during declared war and in contingency operations.
(B) Contracting officers will ensure that contractors are aware of their employees' status and liabilities as CAAF and the required training associated with this status.
(C) CCDRs retain authority to respond to an incident, restore safety and order, investigate, apprehend suspected offenders, and otherwise address the immediate needs of the situation.
(iv) The Department of Justice may prosecute misconduct under applicable Federal laws, including MEJA and 18 U.S.C. 2441. Contractor personnel also are normally subject to the domestic criminal law of the local country. When confronted with disciplinary problems involving contractor personnel, commanders should seek the assistance of their legal staff, the contracting officer responsible for the contract, and the contractor's management team.
(v) In the event of an investigation of reported offenses allegedly committed by or against contractor personnel, appropriate investigative authorities will keep the contracting officer informed, to the extent possible without compromising the investigation, if the alleged offense has a potential contract performance implication.
(2)
Force protection and weapons issuance.
CCDRs must include contractor personnel in their force protection planning and communicate the results to contracting activities and contractors via the GCC OCS web page. In general, contractors are responsible for the security of their own personnel. Contractor personnel working within a U.S. military facility or in close proximity to the U.S. Armed Forces may receive incidentally the benefits of measures taken to protect the U.S. Armed Forces. For more information, see paragraph (ee) of appendix A to this part. However, where additional security is needed to achieve force protection, and it is not operationally or cost effective for contractors to do so individually, the commander may determine it is in the interests of the U.S. Government to provide security for contractor personnel. When security is provided through military means, contractor personnel should receive a level of force protection equal to that of DoD civilian employees.
(i) When the CCDR deems military force protection and legitimate civil
authority are unavailable or insufficient, he or she may authorize, in writing, contractor personnel to be armed for self-defense purposes only. In authorizing contractor personnel to be armed, the contractor, the armed contractor personnel, and the U.S. military must adhere to:
(A) Applicable U.S., HN, and international law;
(B) Relevant SOFAs and other agreements;
(C) Other arrangements with local authorities; and
(D) The rules for the use of force, and guidance and orders regarding the possession, use, safety, accountability of weapons and ammunition that are issued by the CCDR.
(ii) Depending on the operational situation and the specific circumstances of contractor personnel, the contractor may apply for its personnel to be armed for self-defense purposes on a case-by-case basis. The appropriate Staff Judge Advocate (or their designee) to the CCDR will review all applications to ensure there is a legal basis for approval. In reviewing applications, CCDRs will apply the criteria mandated for arming contractor personnel for private security services consistent with 32 CFR part 159.
(A) In such cases, the contractor will validate to the contracting officer, or designee, that the contractor personnel have received weapons familiarization, qualification, and briefings regarding the rules for the use of force, in accordance with CCDR policies.
(B) Acceptance of weapons by contractor personnel is voluntary. In accordance with paragraph (j) of 48 CFR 252.225-7040, the contract must require contractors to ensure that applicable U.S. law does not prohibit personnel from possessing firearms.
(C) Contracts must require all contractor personnel to comply with applicable CCDR and local commander force protection policies. When armed for personal protection, the contract may only authorize contractor personnel to use force for self-defense and must require contractors to ensure that U.S. law does not prohibit its personnel from possessing firearms, in accordance with 48 CFR 252.225-7040(j). Unless not subject to local laws or HN jurisdiction by virtue of an international agreement or customary international law, the contract must include terms and conditions setting forth that the inappropriate use of force could subject contractor personnel to U.S. and/or local or HN prosecution and civil liability.
(3)
Personnel recovery, missing persons, and casualty reporting.
(i) The DoD personnel recovery program applies to all CAAF regardless of their citizenship. For more information, see paragraph (ii) of appendix A to this part. If a CAAF individual becomes isolated or unaccounted for, the contractor must promptly file a search and rescue incident report to the theater's personnel recovery architecture (
e.g.,
the component personnel recovery coordination cell or the CCMD joint personnel recovery center).
(ii) Upon recovery following an isolating event, a CAAF returnee must enter the first of the three phases of reintegration. For more information, see paragraph (jj) of appendix A to this part. The contractor must offer the additional phases of reintegration to the returnee to ensure his or her physical and psychological well-being while adjusting to the post-captivity environment.
(iii) The contractor must report all CAAF and non-CAAF casualties. For more information, see paragraph (s) of appendix A to this part.
(m)
Redeployment procedures.
The considerations in this section apply during the redeployment of CAAF. At the end of the performance period of a contract, or in cases of early redeployment, CAAF must complete the redeployment process to adjust AGS requirements and turn in U.S. Government-provided equipment.
(1)
Preparation for redeployment.
CAAF must complete intelligence out-briefs and customs and immigration briefings and inspections in accordance with CCDR policy and applicable HN law. CAAF are subject to customs and immigration processing procedures at all designated stops and their final destination during their redeployment. CAAF returning to the United States are subject to U.S. reentry customs requirements in effect at the time of reentry.
(2)
Transportation out of theater.
The terms and conditions of the contract will state whether the U.S. Government will provide transportation out of theater.
(i) Upon completion of the deployment or other authorized release, the U.S. Government must provide contractor personnel transportation from the theater of operations to the location from which they deployed, in accordance with each individual's LOA and unless otherwise directed. If commercial transportation is not available, it should be stated in the LOA in accordance with paragraph (l) of appendix A to this part. CAAF are also required to depart from the operational area through the designated reception site.
(ii) Before redeployment, the contractor personnel, through his or her contractor, will coordinate exit times and transportation with the continental U.S. replacement center or designated reception site.
(3)
Redeployment center procedures.
In most instances, the deployment center or site that prepared the CAAF for deployment will serve as the return processing center. As part of CAAF redeployment processing, the designated reception site personnel will screen contractor records, recover U.S. Government-issued identification cards and equipment, and conduct debriefings, as appropriate. The returning CAAF will spend the minimum amount of time possible at the return processing center in order to complete the necessary administrative procedures.
(i) Contractor personnel must return all U.S. Government-issued identification and access badges (
e.g.,
badges, key cards, and other access devices, including CACs).
(ii) Contractor personnel must return any issued clothing and equipment and report any lost, damaged, or destroyed clothing and equipment in accordance with procedures of the issuing facility. Contractor personnel also will receive a post-deployment medical briefing on signs and symptoms of potential diseases (
e.g.,
tuberculosis (TB)). As some countries hosting an intermediate staging base may not permit certain items to enter their territory, certain clothing and equipment, whether issued by the contractor, purchased by the employee, or provided by the DoD, may not be permitted to be removed from the AOR. In this case, CCDR or JFC guidance and contract terms and conditions will provide alternate methods of accounting for U.S. Government-issued equipment and clothing.
(4)
Update to SPOT-ES.
Contracting officers or their designated representatives must verify that contractors have updated SPOT-ES to reflect their employee's change in status within three days of a contractor employee's redeployment, close out the deployment, and collect or revoke the LOA.
(5)
Transportation to home destination.
Transportation of CAAF from the deployment center or site to their home destinations is the employer's responsibility.
§ 158.6
Guidance for contractor medical and dental fitness.
(a)
General.
(1) DoD contracts requiring the deployment of CAAF must include medical and dental fitness standards as specified in this section. Under the terms and conditions of their contracts, contractors will employ personnel who meet such medical and dental fitness standards. With respect to contractor personnel covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 791,
et seq.
or the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 12101,
et seq.,
these medical and dental fitness standards do not alter the legal obligations of DoD Components and contractors (as employers). Replacement of non-medically qualified contractor personnel already deployed to theater will be at the contractor's cost.
(2) The GCC concerned will establish force health protection policies and programs for the protection of all forces assigned or attached to the command in accordance with applicable force health protection (FHP) requirements and medical and dental fitness standards in order to promote and sustain a healthy and ready force. For more information, see paragraph (kk) of appendix A to this part. The GCC concerned will establish a process for reviewing requests for exceptions to
such requirements, on an individualized basis, and will ensure that a mechanism is in place to appropriately maintain records related to all approved and denied waivers, including any medical records.
(3) The GCC concerned will ensure that medical fitness processes and procedures, to include those pertaining to removal of contractor personnel from the theater who are no longer medically qualified, at the contractor's expense, are posted on the GCC OCS web page. Contracting officers will incorporate the language concerning these processes and procedures into clauses for all contracts for performance in the AOR.
(4) Unless otherwise stated in the contract terms and conditions, all medical evaluations and treatment are the contractor's responsibility.
(b)
Medical and dental evaluations.
(1) All CAAF deploying in support of an applicable operation are subject to medical and dental fitness standards pursuant to paragraph (kk) of appendix A to this part and CCDR guidance. Fitness standards pertain to the individual's ability to accomplish the tasks and duties unique to a particular operation and the ability to tolerate the environmental and operational conditions of the deployed location.
(2) All CAAF must undergo a screening medical and dental assessment within 12 months before arrival at the designated deployment center or U.S. Government-authorized contractor-performed deployment processing facility. This screening assessment, conducted by the contractor's medical health provider, should emphasize diagnosing system disease conditions (
e.g.,
cardiovascular, pulmonary, orthopedic, neurologic, endocrinologic, dermatologic, psychological, visual, auditory, dental) that may preclude the CAAF from performing the functional requirements of the contract, especially in the austere work environments encountered in some applicable operations.
(3) CAAF will receive a health threat and countermeasures briefing from the applicable Military Service before deployment to the operational area. For more information, see paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part.
(4) CAAF whose initial screening assessment or subsequent medical evaluation identifies any of the medical conditions listed in paragraph (j) of this section or identifies a requirement for extensive preventive dental case (see paragraph (j)(2)(xxv) of this section) are considered “not medically fit” for deployment unless their deployment is approved by a waiver.
(5) Individuals who are deemed “not medically fit,” including those whose request for a waiver has been denied, following an individual assessment by a licensed medical provider are not authorized to deploy.
(6) Non-CAAF shall be medically screened by a U.S. Government designee when required by the requiring activity and the contract, for the class of labor under consideration (
e.g.,
LNs working in a dining facility).
(7) Contracts will require contractors to replace individuals who develop conditions that cause them to become medically unqualified to perform contractual requirements at any time during contract performance.
(8) Contracts will require that CAAF complete a post-deployment health assessment in the Defense Medical Surveillance System at the end of their deployment or within 30 days of redeployment. For more information, see paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part.
(c)
Glasses and contact lenses.
(1) If contractor personnel require vision correction, they must have two pairs of glasses, and if applicable, eyeglass inserts for a chemical protective mask. The contractor personnel may also provide a written prescription to the supporting military medical component in order to prepare eyeglass inserts for use in a compatible chemical protective mask. If the type of protective mask to be issued is known and time permits, the military medical component should attempt to complete the preparation of eyeglass inserts before deployment.
(2) Wearing contact lenses in a field environment is not recommended and is at the contractor personnel's own risk due to the potential for irreversible eye damage caused by debris, chemical or other hazards present, and the lack of ophthalmologic care in a field environment.
(d)
Medications.
Other than those force health protection prescription products provided by the U.S. Government to CAAF and selected non-CAAF, contracts must require that contractor personnel deploy with a minimum 90-day supply of any required medications obtained at their own expense. For more information, see paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part.
(1) Contractor personnel must be informed that deployed medical units are equipped and staffed to provide emergency care to healthy adults and are unable to provide or replace many medications required for routine treatment of chronic medical conditions, such as high blood pressure, heart conditions, and arthritis.
(2) The contract must require contractor personnel to review both the amount of the medication and its suitability in the foreign area with their personal physician and make any necessary adjustments before deploying. The contract must also hold the contractor personnel responsible for the re-supply of required medications.
(e)
Comfort items.
The contract must require that contractor personnel take spare hearing-aid batteries, sunglasses, insect repellent, sunscreen, and any other supplies related to their individual physical requirements. DoD sources will not provide these items.
(f)
Immunizations.
A list of immunizations, including those required for entry into the designated area of operations and those recommended by medical authorities, will be produced by the cognizant medical authority for each deployment; posted to the GCC OCS web page and DoD FCG; and incorporated in contracts for performance in the designated AOR.
(1) The GCC, upon the recommendation of the cognizant medical authority, will provide contractor personnel who are deploying to the applicable theater of operation a list of the immunizations necessary to protect against the communicable diseases assessed to be a potential hazard in the applicable theater. The cognizant medical authority will prepare and maintain this list.
(2) The contract must require that CAAF complete any mandatory immunizations, subject to any legally required exemptions, to complete the pre-deployment process.
(3) During pre-deployment processing, the DoD will provide contractor personnel, at no cost to the contractor, any theater-specific immunizations and medications not available to the general public. Contractor personnel must obtain all other immunizations before arrival at the deployment center, documented on the International Certificate of Vaccinations of Prophylaxis as approved by the World Health Organization or the Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Form 731. However, the contract must stipulate that CAAF and selected non-CAAF obtain all other necessary immunizations before their arrival at the deployment center. The TB skin test is required for all contractor personnel within three months before they are deployed.
(4) The DoD will provide theater-specific medical supplies and force health protection prescription products to CAAF and selected non-CAAF. Additionally, these personnel will receive deployment medication information sheets for all vaccines or deployment-related medications that are to be dispensed or administered.
(5) Contractors will ensure that individuals with a positive TB skin test be evaluated for targeted diagnosis and treatment of latent TB infection in accordance with the procedures outlined in the World Health Organization Guidelines on the Management of Latent Tuberculosis Infection.
(6) The contract must stipulate that CAAF and selected non-CAAF bring a current copy of the International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis to the pre-deployment processing center and to the operational area.
(g)
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Testing.
HIV testing is not mandatory for contractor personnel unless specified by the GCC CCDR or by host nation requirements. HIV testing, if required, must occur within one year before deployment.
(h)
Armed Forces Repository of Specimen Samples for the Identification of Remains (AFRSSIR).
For identification of remains purposes, contractors whose CAAF members are U.S. citizens will
obtain a dental panograph and will forward a specimen sample suitable for DNA analysis to, and ensure it is on file with, the AFRSSIR before or during deployment processing and recorded in SPOT-ES. The DoD Components must ensure that all contracts require CAAF who are U.S. citizens to provide DNA specimen samples for AFRSSIR as a condition of deployment. For more information, see paragraph (ll) of appendix A to this part.
(1) All CAAF who are U.S. citizens processing through a deployment center will have a DNA specimen sample collected and forwarded to the AFRSSIR for storage. Contracts must require contractors to verify in SPOT-ES or its successor that AFRSSIR has received the DNA specimen sample or that the contractor has collected the DNA specimen sample.
(2) If CAAF who are U.S. citizens do not process through a deployment center, or the contractor is authorized to process its own personnel, the contract must require that the contractor collect and forward DNA specimen samples for all contractor personnel who are deployed as CAAF to the AFRSSIR. Regardless of what specimen collection and storage arrangements are made, all contractors deploying CAAF who are U.S. citizens must provide the CAAF's name and Social Security number, location of the DNA specimen sample, facility contact information, and retrieval plan to AFRSSIR. If the AFRSSIR is not used and a CAAF who is a U.S. citizen becomes a casualty, the contractor must be able to retrieve identification media for use by the Armed Forces Medical Examiner (AFME) or other competent authority to conduct a medical-legal investigation of the incident and identification of the victim or victims. These records must be retrievable within 24 hours for forwarding to the AFME when there is a reported incident that would necessitate their use for identifying human remains. The contractor shall have access to the location of its employees' fingerprint, medical, and dental records, including panographs.
(3) AFRSSIR is responsible for implementing special rules and procedures to ensure the protection of privacy interests in regards to the specimen samples and any DNA analysis of those samples. Specimen samples shall only be used for the purposes outlined in paragraph (ll) of appendix A to this part.
(i)
Waivers related to medical and dental fitness standards.
Based on an individualized assessment, waivers may be appropriate for contractor personnel who have potentially disqualifying medical conditions if, with or without a reasonable accommodation:
(1) The condition is not of such a nature it is likely to have a medically grave outcome or a negative impact on mission execution if it unexpectedly worsens.
(2) The condition is stable and reasonably anticipated by the medical evaluator not to worsen during the deployment under contractor-provided medical care in-theater in light of the physical, physiological, psychological, environmental, and nutritional effects of the duties and location.
(3) Any required ongoing health care or medications must be available or accessible to contractor personnel, independent of the military health system, and not be subject to special handling, storage, or other requirements (
e.g.,
refrigeration requirements and/or cold chain, electrical power requirements) that cannot be met in the specific theater of operations.
(4) The condition does not and is not anticipated to require duty limitations that would preclude performance of contractual requirements or to require accommodation by the DoD component or requiring activity. When necessary, the cognizant medical authority (or delegated representative) is the appropriate authority to evaluate the suitability of an individual's limitations in theater.
(5) There is no need for routine out-of-theater evacuation for continuing diagnostics or other evaluations.
(j)
Conditions usually precluding medical clearance.
This section is not intended to be comprehensive. A list of all possible diagnoses would be too expansive to list in this part. These are minimum requirements. Contractor personnel may have additional medical clearance requirements based on their occupation and local laws. It is the responsibility of the contractor to ensure
that its employees' medical clearances comply with any applicable local occupation-specific medical requirements.
(1) In general, the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section, based on an individual assessment pursuant to paragraph (bb) of appendix A to this part, are disqualifying. The medical evaluator will carefully consider whether climate; altitude; the nature of available food and housing available; the nature of medical, behavioral health, and dental services; or other environmental or operational factors may prove hazardous to the deploying person's heath because of a known physical or mental condition.
(2) Medical clearance for deployment of persons with any of the conditions in this section may be granted by the contracting officer only after consultation with and approval of a waiver by the appropriate cognizant medical authority on behalf of the CCDR. The cognizant medical authority makes recommendations and serves as the CCDR's advisor on conditions precluding the medial clearance of deploying personnel; however, the CCDR is the final approval or disapproval authority except as provided in paragraph (k)(3) of this section. The cognizant medical authority or designated representative may determine if adequate treatment facilities and specialist support are available at the duty station for:
(i) Physical or psychological conditions resulting in the inability to wear IPE effectively, if wearing IPE may be reasonably anticipated or required in the deployed location.
(ii) Conditions that prevent safe administration of applicable immunizations, prescription products, or other health protection measures, including atropine, epinephrine, and/or 2-pam chloride auto-injectors, certain antimicrobials, antimalarials, and/or pyridostigmine bromide.
(iii) Any chronic medical conditions that require frequent clinical visits, fail to respond to adequate conservative treatment, or necessitate significant limitation of physical activity.
(iv) Any medical conditions that require durable medical equipment or appliances or periodic evaluation or treatment by medical specialists not readily available in theater (
e.g.,
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) machine for sleep apnea).
(v) Any unresolved acute or chronic illness or injuries that would impair duty performance in a deployed environment during the duration of the deployment.
(vi) Active TB or known blood-borne diseases that may be transmitted to others in a deployed environment. (For HIV infections, see paragraph (j)(2)(xvii) of this section.)
(vii) An acute exacerbation of a physical or mental health condition that could affect duty performance.
(viii) Recurrent loss of consciousness for any reason.
(ix) Any medical condition that could result in sudden incapacitation including a history of stroke within the last 24 months, seizure disorders, and diabetes mellitus type I or II, treated with insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents.
(x) Hypertension not controlled with medication or that requires frequent monitoring to achieve control.
(xi) Pregnancy.
(xii) Cancers for which individuals are receiving continuing treatment or that require periodic specialty medical evaluations during the anticipated duration of the deployment.
(xiii) Precancerous lesions that have not been treated or evaluated and that require treatment or evaluation during the anticipated duration of the deployment.
(xiv) Any medical conditions that require surgery or for which surgery has been performed that requires rehabilitation or additional surgery to remove devices.
(xv) Asthma that has a Forced Expiratory Volume-1 (FEV-1) of less than or equal to 50 percent of predicted FEV-1 despite appropriate therapy, that has required hospitalization at least two times in the last 12 months, or that requires daily systemic oral or injectable steroids.
(xvi) Any musculoskeletal conditions that significantly impair performance of duties in a deployed environment.
(xvii) HIV antibody positive with the presence of progressive clinical illness or immunological deficiencies. The contracting officer should consult the
cognizant medical authority in all instances of HIV seropositivity before medical clearance for deployment.
(xviii) Hearing loss. The requirement for use of a hearing aid does not necessarily preclude deployment. However, the individual must have sufficient unaided hearing to perform duties safely.
(xix) Loss of vision. Best corrected visual acuity must meet job requirements to perform duties safely.
(xx) Symptomatic coronary artery disease.
(xxi) History of myocardial infarction within one year of deployment.
(xxii) History of coronary artery bypass graft, coronary artery angioplasty, carotid endarterectomy, other arterial stenting, or aneurysm repair within one year of deployment.
(xxiii) Cardiac dysrhythmias or arrhythmias, either symptomatic or requiring medical or electrophysiologic control, such as the presence of an implanted defibrillator and/or pacemaker.
(xxiv) Heart failure.
(xxv) Individuals without a dental exam within the last 12 months or who are likely to require dental treatment or reevaluation for oral conditions that are likely to result in dental emergencies within 12 months.
(xxvi) Psychotic and/or bipolar disorders. For detailed guidance on deployment-limiting psychiatric conditions or psychotropic medications, see paragraph (mm) of appendix A to this part.
(xxvii) Psychiatric disorders under treatment with fewer than three months of demonstrated stability.
(xxviii) Clinical psychiatric disorders with residual symptoms that impair duty performance.
(xxix) Mental health conditions that pose a substantial risk for deterioration or recurrence of impairing symptoms in the deployed environment.
(xxx) Chronic medical conditions that require ongoing treatment with antipsychotics, lithium, or anticonvulsants.
(k)
Exceptions to medical standards (waivers).
If a contractor believes an individual CAAF with one of the conditions listed in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (xxx) of this section can, with or without reasonable accommodation, accomplish the essential duties of his or her tasks and duties and tolerate the environmental and operational conditions of the deployed location, the contractor may request a waiver for that individual through the contracting officer, using the process and procedures established by the GCC.
(1) Contractors will include a summary of a detailed medical evaluation or consultation concerning the medical condition or conditions in the requests for waivers. Since maximization of mission accomplishment and the protection of the health of personnel are the ultimate goals, justification for the waiver will include:
(i) Statement indicating the CAAF individual's qualifications and experience.
(ii) The position the CAAF individual will occupy and the nature and scope of contractual duties assigned.
(iii) Any known specific hazards of the position.
(iv) Anticipated availability and need for care while deployed.
(2) Waivers to deploy or permit continued service in a deployed environment by persons with any of the conditions in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (xxx) of this section require an individualized assessment and a recommendation from a cognizant medical authority. The GCC, or designee, is the final decision authority for medical waiver requests, except as provided in paragraph (k)(3) of this section.
(3) For CAAF individuals working with Special Operations Forces personnel, the Theater Special Operations Command Commander is the final decision authority for medical waiver requests.
Pt. 158, App.

# Appendix A to Part 158—Related Policies
The Operational Contract Support Outside the United States Program is supported by the following policies:
(a) DoD Directive 5124.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R))” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/512402p.pdf
).
(b) DoD Instruction 1100.22, “Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/110022p.pdf
).
(c) DoD Directive 1000.20, “Active Duty Service Determinations for Civilian or Contractual Groups” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/100020p.pdf
).
(d) DoD Instruction 2200.01, “Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP)” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/220001p.pdf
).
(e) DoD Law of War Manual (June 2015, Updated Dec. 2016) (available at
https://dod.defense.gov/Portals/1/Documents/pubs/DoD%20Law%20of%20War%20Manual%20-%20June%202015%20Updated%20Dec%202016.pdf?ver=2016-12-13-172036-190
).
(f) DoD Instruction 1000.01, “Identification (ID) Cards Required by the Geneva Conventions” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/100001p.pdf
).
(g) DoD Instruction 1000.13, “Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/100013p.pdf
).
(h) DoD Manual 1000.13, “DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle” Volume 1 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/100013_vol1.pdf
).
(i) DoD Manual 1000.13, “DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle”, Volume 2 (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/100013_vol2.pdf
).
(j) DoD Directive 1300.22, “Mortuary Affairs Policy” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/130022p.pdf
).
(k) DoD Instruction 1300.18, “Department of Defense (DoD) Personnel Casualty Matters, Policies, and Procedures” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/130018p.pdf
).
(l) DoD Instruction 4515.13, “Air Transportation Eligibility” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/451513p.PDF
).
(m) DoD Instruction 6200.03, “Public Health Emergency Management (PHEM) within the DoD” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/620003p.pdf
).
(n) DoD Instruction 6000.11, “Patient Movement (PM)” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/600011p.pdf
).
(o) DoD Instruction 4525.09, “Military Postal Service” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/452509p.pdf
).
(p) DoD Instruction 1015.10, “Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/101510p.pdf
).
(q) DoD Instruction 1330.21, “Armed Services Exchange Regulations” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/133021p.pdf
).
(r) DoD Directive 5160.41E, “Defense Language, Regional Expertise, and Culture (LREC) Program” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/516041Ep.pdf
).
(s) Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker (SPOT) Business Rules (available at
https://www.acq.osd.mil/log/LOG_CSD/spot.html
).
(t) DoD 5400.11-R, “Department of Defense Privacy Program” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/540011r.pdf
).
(u) DoD Manual 6025.18, “Implementation of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA) Privacy Rule in DoD Health Care Programs” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/602518m.pdf
).
(v) DoD Directive 8000.01, “Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise (DoD IE)” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/800001p.pdf
).
(w) DoD Instruction 8320.02, “Sharing Data, Information, and Information Technology (IT) Services in the Department of Defense” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/832002p.pdf
).
(x) DoD Instruction 8330.01, “Interoperability of Information Technology, Including National Security Systems” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/833001p.pdf
).
(y) DoD Instruction 8500.01, “Cybersecurity” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/850001_2014.pdf
).
(z) DoD Directive 4500.54E, “DoD Foreign Clearance Program” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/450054E.pdf
).
(aa) DoD Directive 6485.02E, “DoD Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) Prevention Program (DHAPP) to Support Foreign Militaries” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/648502E.pdf
).
(bb) DoD Instruction 6490.03, “Deployment Health” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/649003p.pdf
).
(cc) DoD Directive 6490.02E, “Comprehensive Health Surveillance” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/649002Ep.pdf
).
(dd) CJCS Instruction 3500.01J, “Joint Training Policy for the Armed Forces of the United States” (available at
https://
www.jcs.mil/Portals/36/Documents/Library/Instructions/CJCSI%203500.01J.pdf?ver=_ah_rbO2yB6Uw6QbvzC8pw%3d%3d
).
(ee) DoD Instruction 2000.12, “DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Program” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/200012p.pdf
).
(ff) DoD Directive 2310.01E, “DoD Detainee Program” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/231001e.pdf
).
(gg) DoD Directive 2311.01, “DoD Law of War Program” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/231101p.pdf?ver=2020-07-02-143157-007
).
(hh) DoD Directive 3115.09, “DoD Intelligence Interrogations, Detainee Debriefings, and Tactical Questioning” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/311509p.pdf
).
(ii) DoD Directive 3002.01, “Personnel Recovery in the Department of Defense” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/300201p.pdf
).
(jj) DoD Instruction 3002.03, “DoD Personnel Recovery—Reintegration of Recovered Personnel” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/300203p.pdf
).
(kk) DoD Directive 6200.04, “Force Health Protection (FHP)” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/620004p.pdf
).
(ll) DoD Instruction 5154.30, “Armed Forces Medical Examiner System (AFMES) Operations” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/515430p.pdf
).
(mm) Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs Memorandum, Clinical Practice Guidance for Deployment-Limiting Mental Disorders and Psychotropic Medications” October 7, 2013 (available at
https://health.mil/Reference-Center/Policies?query=deployment
isDateRange=0
broadVector=000
newsVector=00000000
refVector=000000000100000
refSrc=1.
Pt. 159

# PART 159—PRIVATE SECURITY CONTRACTORS (PSCs) OPERATING IN CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS, HUMANITARIAN OR PEACE OPERATIONS, OR OTHER MILITARY OPERATIONS OR EXERCISES
Sec.
159.1
Purpose.
159.2
Applicability and scope.
159.3
Definitions.
159.4
Policy.
159.5
Responsibilities.
159.6
Procedures.

# Authority:
Sec. 862, Pub. L. 110-181, 122 Stat. 253; Sec. 832, Sec 853, Pub. L. 110-417, 122 Stat. 4535; Sec. 831-833, Pub L. 111-383, 124 Stat. 4276.

# Source:
76 FR 49655, Aug. 11, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 159.1
Purpose.
This part establishes policy, assigns responsibilities and provides procedures for the regulation of the selection, accountability, training, equipping, and conduct of personnel performing private security functions under a covered contract. It also assigns responsibilities and establishes procedures for incident reporting, use of and accountability for equipment, rules for the use of force, and a process for administrative action or the removal, as appropriate, of PSCs and PSC personnel.
§ 159.2
Applicability and scope.
This part:
(a) Applies to:
(1) The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense (DoD), the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities in the DoD (hereafter referred to as the “DoD Components”).
(2) The Department of State and other U.S. Federal agencies insofar as it implements the requirements of section 862 of Public Law 110-181, as amended. Specifically, in areas of operations which require enhanced coordination of PSC and PSC personnel working for U.S. Government (U.S.G.) agencies, the Secretary of Defense may designate such areas as areas of combat operations or other significant military operations for the limited purposes of this part. In such an instance, the standards established in accordance with this part would, in coordination with the Secretary of State, expand from covering only DoD PSCs and PSC personnel to cover all U.S.G.-funded PSCs and PSC personnel operating in the designated area.
(3) The requirements of this part shall not apply to a nonprofit nongovernmental organization receiving grants or cooperative agreements for activities conducted within an area of other significant military operations if the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State agree that such organization may be exempted. An exemption may be granted by the agreement of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State under this paragraph (a)(3) on an organization-by-organization or area-by-area basis. Such an exemption may not be granted with respect to an area of combat operations.
(b) Prescribes policies applicable to all:
(1) DoD PSCs and PSC personnel on contract and subcontract, at any tier, performing private security functions in support of contingency operations, humanitarian or peace operations, or other military operations or exercises outside the United States.
(2) U.S.G.-funded PSCs and PSC personnel performing private security functions in an area of combat operations or, with the agreement of the Secretary of State, other significant military operations as designated by the Secretary of Defense.
[76 FR 49655, Aug. 11, 2011, as amended at 87 FR 55283, Sept. 9, 2022]
§ 159.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.
Area of combat operations.
An area of operations designated as such by the Secretary of Defense for the purpose of this part, when enhanced coordination of PSCs working for U.S.G. agencies is required.
Arming authority.
A Combatant Commander (CCDR) with responsibility for the applicable geographic area concerned, or a person or persons designated by that Commander who can authorize the arming of civilians under their authority or supervision for security functions or to permit the carrying of firearms for personal protection in support of operations outside the United States.
Contingency operation.
Per 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13)(a), a military operation that is designated by the Secretary of Defense as a contingency operation, or that becomes a contingency operation as a matter of law in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 101(a)(13)(b).
Contractor.
The contractor, subcontractor, grantee, or other party carrying out the covered contract.
Covered contract.
(1) A DoD contract for performance of services and/or delivery of supplies in an area of contingency operations, humanitarian or peace operations, or other military operations or exercises outside the United States or non-DoD Federal agency contract for performance of services and/or delivery of supplies in an area of combat operations or other significant military operations, as designated by the Secretary of Defense; a subcontract at any tier under such contracts; or a task order or delivery order issued under such contracts or subcontracts.
(2) Excludes temporary arrangements entered into by non-DoD contractors for the performance of private security functions by individual indigenous personnel not affiliated with a local or expatriate security company.
Other significant military operations.
(1) Activities, other than combat operations, as part of an overseas contingency operation that are carried out by U.S. Armed Forces in an uncontrolled or unpredictable high-threat environment where personnel performing security functions may be called upon to use deadly force.
(2) With respect to an area of other significant military operations, the requirements of this part shall apply only upon agreement of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State. Such an agreement of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State may be made only on an area-by-area basis. With respect to an area of combat operations, the requirements of this part shall always apply.
Private Security Contractor (PSC).
A company contracted by the U.S.G. to perform private security functions under a covered contract.
Private security functions.
Activities engaged in by a contractor under a covered contract as follows:
(1) Guarding personnel, facilities, designated sites, or property of a Federal agency, the contractor or subcontractor, or a third party.
(2) Any other activity for which personnel are required to carry weapons in the performance of their duties in accordance with the terms of their contract. For the DoD, DoD Instruction 3020.41, “Operational Contract Support (OCS)” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/302041p.pdf
) prescribes policies related to personnel allowed to carry weapons for self-defense.
(3) Contractors, including those performing private security functions, are not authorized to perform inherently governmental functions. In this regard, armed contractors are limited in the use of force to a defensive response to hostile acts or demonstrated hostile intent.
PSC personnel.
Any individual performing private security functions under a covered contract.
Total Force.
The organizations, units, and individuals that comprise DoD's resources for implementing the National Security Strategy. It includes the DoD Active and Reserve Component military personnel, DoD civilian personnel (including foreign national direct-hires as well as non-appropriated fund employees), contracted support, and host nation support personnel.
[76 FR 49655, Aug. 11, 2011, as amended at 87 FR 55283, Sept. 9, 2022]
§ 159.4
Policy.
(a) Consistent with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of section 862 of Public Law 110-181, as amended, the selection, training, equipping, and conduct of PSC personnel including the establishment of appropriate processes shall be coordinated between the DoD and the Department of State. Coordination shall encompass the contemplated use of PSC personnel during the planning stages of contingency operations so as to allow guidance to be developed under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and promulgated under § 159.5 in a timely manner that is appropriate for the needs of the contingency operation.
(b) Combatant Commanders (CCDRs) with geographic Areas of Responsibility (AORs) will provide tailored PSC guidance and procedures for the operational environment in their Area of Responsibility (AOR) in accordance with this part, the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
1
and the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS).
2
1
Published in Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
2
Published in Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(c) In a designated area of combat operations or other significant military operations, the relevant Chief of Mission (COM) will be responsible for developing and issuing implementing instructions for non-DoD PSCs and their personnel consistent with the standards set forth by the CCDR for the applicable geographic AOR in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. The COM has the option to instruct non-DoD PSCs and their personnel to follow the guidance and procedures developed by the CCDR for the applicable geographic AOR and/or a sub unified commander or joint force commander (JFC) where specifically authorized by the Combatant Commander to do so and notice of that authorization is provided to non-DoD agencies.
(d) The requirements of this part shall not apply to contracts entered into by elements of the intelligence community in support of intelligence activities.
[76 FR 49655, Aug. 11, 2011, as amended at 87 FR 55284, Sept. 9, 2022]
§ 159.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P
R)) will provide Department-wide policies on the total force manpower mix and labor sourcing, consistent with U.S. law, the FAR, the DFARS, and other applicable Federal policy documents, especially with respect to contracted services and restrictions on functions that contractors may and may not perform. The USD(P
R) will ensure that policies specifically address circumstances where use of PSCs would be inherently
governmental or where CCDRs with geographic AORs would need to assess where performance of the function by PSCs or total reliance on PSCs would constitute an unacceptable risk.
(b) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics (DASD(Logistics)), under the authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (USD(A
S)) and through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment, monitors the registering, processing, and accounting of PSC personnel in areas of contingency operations, humanitarian or peace operations, or other military operations or exercises.
(c) The Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting (DPC), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(A
S) and through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, ensures that the DFARS and (when appropriate, in consultation with the other members of the FAR Council) the FAR, provides appropriate guidance and publishes contracting requirements pursuant to this part and section 862 of Public Law 110-181.
(d) The CJCS shall ensure that joint doctrine is consistent with the principles established by DoD Directive 3020.49, “Program Management for the Planning and Execution of Operational Contract Support” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/302049d.pdf?ver=fgxC1kzBqeIV4KpOv9pDTw%3d%3d
); DoD Instruction 3020.41, DoD Directive 5210.56, “Arming and the Use of Force” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/521056p.PDF?ver=PIvIb3eht0obgolnD0UCEw%3d%3d
); and this part.
(e) CCDRs with responsibility for the AOR in which contingency operations, humanitarian or peace operations, or other military operations or exercises are occurring, and within which PSCs and PSC personnel perform under covered contracts, shall:
(1) Provide guidance and procedures, as necessary and consistent with the principles established by DoD Directive 3020.49, DoD Instruction 3020.41, DoD Instruction 1100.22, “Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/110022p.pdf
); DFARS, 48 CFR 225.302, and this part, for the selection, training, accountability, and equipping of such PSC personnel and the conduct of PSCs and PSC personnel within their AOR. Individual training and qualification standards shall meet, at a minimum, one of the Military Departments' established standards. Within a Combatant Command (CCMD) with a designated geographic AOR, a sub unified commander or JFC shall be responsible for developing and issuing implementing procedures as warranted by the situation, operation, and environment, in consultation with the relevant COM in designated areas of combat operations or other significant military operations.
(2) Through the Contracting Officer, the PSC should acknowledge that its personnel understand their obligation to comply with the terms and conditions of applicable covered contracts.
(3) Issue written authorization to the PSC identifying individual PSC personnel who are authorized to be armed. Rules for the Use of Force shall be included with the written authorization, if not previously provided. Rules for the Use of Force shall conform to the guidance in DoD Directive 5210.56 and the CJCS Instruction 3121.01B, “Standing Rules of Engagement/Standing Rules for the Use of Force for U.S. Forces.” Offerors' and contractors' access to the Rules for the Use of Force may be controlled in accordance with the terms of FAR, 48 CFR 52.204-2, “Security Requirements”; DFARS, 48 CFR 252.204-7000, “Disclosure of Information”; or both.
1
1
CJCS Instruction 3121.01B provides guidance on the standing rules of engagement (SROE) and establishes standing rules for the use of force for DoD operations worldwide. This document is classified secret. CJCS Instruction 3121.01B is available via Secure internet Protocol Router Network at
https://jsportal.osd.smil.mil.
(4) Ensure that the procedures, orders, directives, and instructions prescribed in § 159.6 are available through a single location (including an internet website, consistent with security considerations and requirements).
(f) The Heads of the DoD Components shall:
(1) Ensure that all private security-related requirement documents are in compliance with the procedures listed in § 159.6 and the guidance and procedures issued by the CCMD of the applicable geographic AOR.
(2) Ensure private security-related solicitations and contracts contain the appropriate clauses in accordance with the applicable FAR and DFARS clauses and include additional mission-specific requirements as appropriate.
(3) In coordination with the appropriate requiring activity (or activities), ensure the head of the contracting activity responsible for each covered contract takes appropriate steps to assign sufficient oversight personnel to the contract to verify that the contractor responsible for performing private security functions complies with the requirements of this part. This includes ensuring that the contracting officer coordinates with the requiring activity to nominate and appoint a qualified contracting officer's representative (COR) or other multiple or alternate CORs, in accordance with DoD Instruction 5000.72, “DoD Standard for Contracting Officer's Representative (COR) Certification” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/500072p.pdf
).
[87 FR 55284, Sept. 9, 2022]
§ 159.6
Procedures.
(a)
Standing Combatant Command (CCMD) guidance and procedures.
Each CCDR with a geographic AOR shall develop and publish guidance and procedures for PSCs and PSC personnel operating during contingency operations, humanitarian or peace operations, or other military operations or exercises within their AOR, consistent with applicable law; this part; applicable Military Department publications; and other applicable DoD issuances including DoD Directive 3020.49, DoD Instruction 1100.22, “Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix,” FAR, DFARS, DoD Instruction 3020.41, DoD Directive 2311.01E, “DoD Law of War Program” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/231101p.pdf?ver=2020-07-02-143157-007
); DoD 5200.08-R, “Physical Security Program” (available at
https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodm/520008rm.pdf
); CJCS Instruction 3121.01B,, and DoD Directive 5210.56. The guidance and procedures shall:
(1) Contain, at a minimum, procedures to implement the following processes, and identify the organization responsible for managing these processes:
(i) Registering, processing, accounting for and keeping appropriate records of PSCs and PSC personnel in accordance with DoD Instruction 3020.41.
(ii) PSC verification that PSC personnel meet all the legal, training, and qualification requirements for authorization to carry a weapon in accordance with the terms and conditions of their contract and host country law. Weapons accountability procedures will be established and approved prior to the weapons authorization.
(iii) Arming of PSC personnel. Requests for permission to arm PSC personnel shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the appropriate Staff Judge Advocate to the CCDR of the geographic AOR (or a designee) to ensure there is a legal basis for approval. The request will then be approved or denied by the CCDR of the geographic AOR or a specifically identified designee, no lower than the flag officer level. Requests to arm non-DOD PSC personnel shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with § 159.4(c). Requests for permission to arm all PSC personnel shall include:
(A) A description of where PSC personnel will operate, the anticipated threat, and what property or personnel such personnel are intended to protect, if any.
(B) A description of how the movement of PSC personnel will be coordinated through areas of increased risk or planned or ongoing military operations, including how PSC personnel will be rapidly identified by members of the U.S. Armed Forces.
(C) A communication plan, to include a description of how relevant threat information will be shared between PSC personnel and U.S. military forces and how appropriate assistance will be provided to PSC personnel who become engaged in hostile situations. DoD contractors performing private security
functions are only to be used in accordance with DoD Instruction 1100.22, “Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix,”
1
that is, they are limited to a defensive response to hostile acts or demonstrated hostile intent.
1
Available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/110022p.pdf.
(D) Documentation of individual training covering weapons familiarization and qualification, rules for the use of force, limits on the use of force including whether defense of others is consistent with host nation Status of Forces Agreements or local law, the distinction between the rules of engagement applicable to military forces and the prescribed rules for the use of force that control the use of weapons by civilians, and the Law of Armed Conflict.
(E) Written acknowledgment by the PSC and its individual PSC personnel, after investigation of background of PSC personnel by the contractor, verifying such personnel are not prohibited under U.S. law to possess firearms.
(F) Written acknowledgment by the PSC and individual PSC personnel that:
(
1
) Inappropriate use of force by contractor personnel authorized to accompany the U.S. Armed Forces may subject such personnel to United States or host nation prosecution and civil liability.
2
2
This requirement is specific to arming procedures. Such written acknowledgement should not be construed to limit potential civil and criminal liability to conduct arising from “the use of weapons.” For example, PSC personnel could be held criminally liable for any conduct that would constitute a Federal offense (see MEJA, 18 U.S.C. 3261(a)).
(
2
) Proof of authorization to be armed must be carried by each PSC personnel.
(
3
) PSC personnel may possess only U.S.G.-issued and/or -approved weapons and ammunition for which they have been qualified according to paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(E) of this section.
(
4
) PSC personnel were briefed about and understand limitations on the use of force.
(
5
) Authorization to possess weapons and ammunition may be revoked for non-compliance with established rules for the use of force.
(
6
) PSC personnel are prohibited from consuming alcoholic beverages or being under the influence of alcohol while armed.
(iv) Registration and identification in the Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker (or its successor database) of PSC personnel, weapons, armored vehicles, helicopters, and other vehicles operated by PSC personnel.
(v) Reporting alleged criminal activity or other incidents involving PSCs or PSC personnel by another company or any other person. All incidents involving the following shall be reported and documented:
(A) A weapon is discharged by an individual performing private security functions;
(B) An individual performing private security functions is killed or injured in the performance of their duties;
(C) A person other than an individual performing private security functions is killed or injured as a result of conduct by PSC personnel;
(D) Property is destroyed as a result of conduct by a PSC or PSC personnel;
(E) An individual performing private security functions has come under attack including in cases where a weapon is discharged against an individual performing private security functions or personnel performing such functions believe a weapon was so discharged; or
(F) Active, non-lethal counter-measures (other than the discharge of a weapon) are employed by PSC personnel in response to a perceived immediate threat in an incident that could significantly affect U.S. objectives with regard to the military mission or international relations. (Active non-lethal systems include laser optical distracters, acoustic hailing devices, electro-muscular disruption devices, blunt-trauma devices like rubber balls and sponge grenades, and a variety of riot-control agents and delivery systems).
(vi) The independent review and, if practicable, investigation of incidents reported pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(v)(A) through (a)(1)(v)(F) of this section and incidents of alleged misconduct by PSC personnel.
(vii) Identification of ultimate criminal jurisdiction and investigative responsibilities, where conduct of U.S.G.-funded PSCs or PSC personnel are in question, in accordance with applicable laws to include a recognition of investigative jurisdiction and coordination for joint investigations (
i.e.,
other U.S.G. agencies, host nation, or third country agencies), where the conduct of PSCs and PSC personnel is in question.
(viii) A mechanism by which a CCDR may, through the contracting officer, request an action by which PSC personnel who are non-compliant with contract requirements are removed from the designated operational area.
(ix) Interagency coordination of administrative penalties or removal, as appropriate, of non-DoD PSC personnel who fail to comply with the terms and conditions of their contract, as they relate to this part.
(x) Implementation of the training requirements contained below in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(2) Specifically cover:
(i) Matters relating to authorized equipment, force protection, security, health, safety, and relations and interaction with locals in accordance with DoD Instruction 3020.41.
(ii) Assessing compliance with DoD approved business and operational standards for private security functions.
(iii) Predeployment training requirements addressing, at a minimum, the identification of resources and assistance available to PSC personnel as well as country information and cultural training, and guidance on working with host country nationals and military personnel.
(iv) Rules for the use of force and graduated force procedures.
(v) Requirements for the PSC to cooperate with any investigation conducted by the DoD, including by providing access to its employees and relevant information in its possession regarding the matter(s) under investigation.
(vi) Requirements and procedures for direction, control and the maintenance of communications with regard to the movement and coordination of PSCs and PSC personnel, including specifying interoperability requirements. These include coordinating with the COM, as necessary, private security operations outside secure bases and U.S. diplomatic properties to include movement control procedures for all contractors, including PSC personnel.
(b)
Subordinate guidance and procedures.
A sub unified commander or JFC, in consultation with the COM, will issue guidance and procedures implementing the standing CCDR publications specified in paragraph (a) of this section, consistent with the situation and operating environment.
(c)
Consultation and coordination.
The COM and the CCDR with geographic AOR/sub unified commander or JFC shall make every effort to consult and coordinate responses to common threats and common concerns related to oversight of the conduct of U.S.G.-funded PSCs and their personnel.
[76 FR 49655, Aug. 11, 2011, as amended at 87 FR 55285, Sept. 9, 2022]
Pt. 161

# PART 161—IDENTIFICATION (ID) CARDS FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, THEIR DEPENDENTS, AND OTHER ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS

# Subpart A—Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
Sec.
161.1
Purpose.
161.2
Applicability.
161.3
Definitions.
161.4
Policy.
161.5
Responsibilities.
161.6
Procedures.

# Subpart B—DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
161.7
ID card life-cycle procedures.
161.8
ID card life-cycle roles and responsibilities.

# Subpart C—DoD Identification (ID) Cards: Benefits for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
161.9
DoD benefits.
161.10
Benefits for active duty members of the uniformed services.
161.11
Benefits for National Guard and Reserve members of the uniformed services.
161.12
Benefits for former uniformed services members.
161.13
Benefits for retired members of the uniformed services.
161.14
Benefits for MOH recipients.
161.15
Benefits for Disabled American Veterans (DAV).
161.16
Benefits for transitional health care members and dependents.
161.17
Benefits for surviving dependents.
161.18
Benefits for abused dependents.
161.19
Benefits for former spouses.
161.20
Benefits for civilian personnel.
161.21
Benefits for retired civilian personnel.
161.22
Benefits for foreign affiliates.

# Subpart D—DoD Identification (ID) Cards: Eligibility Documentation Required for Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) Enrollment, Record Management, and ID Card Issuance
161.23
Procedures.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5703, 10 U.S.C. 1061-1064, 1072-1074, 1074a-1074c, 1076, 1076a, 1077, and 1095(k)(2), and 18 U.S.C. 499, 506, 509, 701, and 1001; 10 U.S.C. 1408(h), 10 U.S.C. 1044a, 10 U.S.C. chapter 1223.

# Source:
79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Identification (ID) Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals
§ 161.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and provides procedures for the issuing of distinct DoD ID cards. The ID cards shall be issued to uniformed service members, their dependents, DoD civilian employees, and other eligible individuals and will be used as proof of identity and DoD affiliation.
(b) Sets forth responsibilities and procedures for the DoD ID card life-cycle in accordance with this part.
(c) Prescribes the benefits for commissary; exchange; morale, welfare, and recreation (MWR); Military Health Services direct care in military treatment facilities (MTFs); and TRICARE civilian health care (CHC) in support of the members of the uniformed services, their dependents, and other eligible individuals, in accordance with this part.
(d) Provides procedures and defines acceptable documentation for enrollment and eligibility verification, as necessary, for DoD ID card issuance and as described in DoD Instruction 1000.13 and subparts B and C of this part.
[79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74875, Oct. 27, 2016]
§ 161.2
Applicability.
This part applies to:
(a) The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments (including the Coast Guard at all times, including when it is a Service in the Department of Homeland Security by agreement with that Department), the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the Department of Defense (hereafter referred to collectively as the “DoD Components”).
(b) The Commissioned Corps of the U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS), under agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), under agreement with the Department of Commerce.
§ 161.3
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.
20/20/20, 20/20/15, or 10/20/10.
See definition of “former spouse.”
Abused dependent.
Dependents of active duty uniformed service members:
(1) Entitled to retired pay based on 20 or more years of service who, on or after October 23, 1992, while a member, are eligible to receive retired pay terminated as a result of misconduct involving the abuse of the spouse or dependent child pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1408(h); or
(2) Not entitled to retired pay, who have received a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, dismissal from a uniformed service as a result of a court
martial conviction for an offense involving physical or emotional abuse of a spouse or child, or were administratively discharged as a result of such an offense, separated on or after November 30, 1993.
Access to a DoD network.
User logon to a Windows active directory account on the Nonsecure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) or an authorized network operating system account on the NIPRNet.
Access to a DoD network (remote).
Authorized NIPRNet users accessing a NIPRNet resource from:
(1) Another NIPRNet resource outside of the originating domain; or
(2) An authorized system that resides outside of the NIPRNet. This includes domain-level access from handheld devices. Remote access includes logon for the purposes of telework, Virtual Private Network, and remote administration by DoD or non-DoD personnel.
Active duty.
Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States. This includes full-time training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in the active military service, at a school designated as a service school by law or by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned. Active duty does not include full-time National Guard duty.
Active duty for a period of more than 30 days.
Active duty under a call or order that does not specify a period of 30 days or less. When the “Active Duty for a Period of More than 30 Days” is established by consecutive sets of orders, their eligible dependents become entitled to TRICARE medical benefits on the first day of the set of orders that brings the period of active duty over 30 days.
Adopted child.
A child adopted before the age of 21 or, if enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning, before the age of 23. Except for entitlement to medical care, a child with an incapacitating condition that existed before the age of 21 or that occurred while the child was a full-time student prior to the age of 23, may be adopted at any age provided it is determined that there is a BONA FIDE parent-child relationship. Surviving children adopted by a non-military member after the death of the sponsor remain eligible for medical care only.
Annulled.
The status of an individual, whose marriage has been declared a nullity by a court of competent jurisdiction, that restores unremarried status to a widow, widower, or former spouse for reinstatement of benefits.
Annulment decree.
An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that grants an annulment of a marriage.
Attainment of age 65.
The first day of the month of the anniversary of the 65th birthday, unless the birthday falls on the first of the month. If the birthday is the first of the month, attainment of age 65 occurs on the first day of the preceding month.
Benefits.
Entitlements or privileges that are assigned to a person or group of persons.
CAC PIN reset (CPR).
A portable, single-purpose system capable of providing timely PIN reset capability to the field without requiring a Common Access Card (CAC) holder to return to a CAC issuance facility (i.e. Real-Time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS), workstation).
Certificate of live birth.
A certificate authenticated by an attending physician or other responsible person from a U.S. hospital or a military treatment facility showing the name of at least one parent.
Certified document.
A document that is certified as a true original and:
(1) Conveys the appropriate seal or markings of the issuer;
(2) Has a means to validate the authenticity of the document by a reference or source number;
(3) Is a notarized legal document or other document approved by a Judge Advocate, other members of the armed forces designated by law and regulations to have the powers set forth in 10 U.S.C 1044a, or other eligible persons in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044a; or
(4) Has the appropriate certificate of authentication by a U.S. Consular Officer in the foreign country of issuance which attests to the authenticity of the signature and seal.
Certified English translation.
See requirements for certified document.
CHC.
Medical care provided through the TRICARE program including networks of CHC professionals, institutions, pharmacies, and suppliers to provide access to high-quality health care services.
Child.
A legitimate child, illegitimate child, stepchild, or adopted child of the sponsor, who is younger than 21 years of age. If 21 or older, the child may remain eligible if the child is:
(1) 21 or 22 years old and enrolled in a full-time course of higher learning;
(2) 21 or older but incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before the 21st birthday; or
(3) 21 or 22 years old and was enrolled full-time in an accredited institution of higher learning but became incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical condition while a full-time student.
Civilian employee.
DoD civilian employees, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105 are individuals appointed to positions by designated officials. Appointments to appropriated fund positions are either permanent or time-limited and the employees are on full-time, part-time, or intermittent work schedules. In some instances, the appointments are seasonal with either a full-time, part-time, or intermittent work schedule. Positions are categorized further as Senior Executive Service (SES), Competitive Service, and Excepted Service positions. In addition, DoD employs individuals paid from NAFs, as well as foreign national citizens outside the United States, its territories, and its possessions, in DoD activities overseas. The terms and conditions of host-nation citizen employment are governed by controlling treaties, agreements, and memoranda of understanding with the foreign nations.
Civilian noncombatant personnel.
Personnel who have been authorized to accompany military forces of the United States in regions of conflict, combat, and contingency operations and who are liable to capture and detention by the enemy as POWs.
Commissary.
A benefit granted to eligible personnel in accordance with this part and DoD Instruction 1330.17 (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/133017p.pdf
).
Competitive service positions.
See 5 U.S.C. 2102.
Contingency operation.
Defined in Joint Publication 1-02 (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/new_pubs/jp1_02.pdf
).
Contractor employee.
An employee of a firm, or individual under contract or subcontract to the DoD, designated as providing services or support to the Department.
Contractors authorized to accompany the force.
Defined in Joint Publication 1-02.
Cross-servicing.
Agreement amongst all uniformed services to assist Service members, regardless of the Service member's responsible uniformed service, and their dependents, for all ID card or benefits-related matters, when appropriate and not restricted by subpart B of this part.
Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS).
The definitive centralized person data repository of identity and enrollment and eligibility verification data and associated contact information on members of the DoD Components, members of the Uniformed Services, and other personnel as designated by the DoD, and their eligible dependents and associated contact information.
Dependent.
An individual whose relationship to the sponsor leads to entitlement to benefits and privileges.
Direct Care (DC).
Medical care that TRICARE provides through the health care resources of the uniformed services through their clinics and MTFs. This does not include any medical care provided through the TRICARE CHC network.
Dissolution decree.
An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that grants dissolution of a marriage.
Divorce decree.
An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that grants termination of a marriage.
Dual eligible.
A person who is entitled to Medicare Part A and enrolled in Medicare Part B and is also entitled to TRICARE medical benefits, in accordance with section 706 of Public Law
106-398 and Public Law 102-190, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993” (available at
http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/C?c102:./temp/~c102UvpYbH
).
Dual status.
A person who is entitled to privileges from two sources (e.g., a retired member, who is also the dependent of an active duty member; a retired-with-pay member who is employed overseas as a civilian by the U.S. Government and is qualified for logistical support because of that civilian employment; a member of a Reserve Component who is an eligible dependent of an active duty military sponsor; or a child, who is the natural child of one sponsor and the stepchild and member of a household of another sponsor).
Eligibility documentation.
Properly certified birth certificate or certificate of live birth authenticated by attending physician or other responsible person from a U.S. hospital or a MTF showing the name of at least one parent; properly certified marriage certification; properly certified final decree of divorce, dissolution, or annulment of marriage and statements attesting to nonremarriage and status of employer-sponsored healthcare; court order for adoption or guardianship; statement of incapacity from a physician or personnel or medical headquarters of sponsor's parent uniformed service; letter from school registrar; retirement orders (providing entitlement to retired pay is established) or DD Form 214 “Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty;” DD Form 1300, “Report of Casualty;” certification from the Department of Veterans' Affairs of 100 percent disabled status; orders awarding Medal of Honor (MOH); formal determination of eligibility for Medicare Part A benefits from the Social Security Administration (SSA); civilian personnel records; and invitational travel orders.
Entitlements.
Rights or authorities that are provided based on legislative statute.
Entry level separation.
As defined in DoD Instruction 1332.14, “Enlisted Administrative Separations” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/133214p.pdf
), an enlisted service member is considered in an entry-level status during the first 180 days of continuous active military service, or the first 180 days of continuous active service after a service break of more than 92 days of active service. A Service member of a Reserve Component who is not on active duty or who is serving under a call or order to active duty for 180 days or less begins entry-level status upon enlistment in a Reserve Component. Entry-level status for such a Service member of a Reserve Component terminates as follows:
(1) 180 days after beginning training if the Service member is ordered to active duty for training for one continuous period of 180 days or more; or
(2) 90 days after the beginning of the second period of active duty training if the Service member is ordered to active duty for training under a program that splits the training into two or more separate periods of active duty. For the purposes of characterization of service or description of separation, the Service member's status is determined by the date of notification as to the initiation of separation proceedings.
Excepted service positions.
Defined in 5 U.S.C. 2103.
Exchange.
A benefit that is extended to eligible individuals in accordance with DoD Instruction 1330.21.
Family member.
An individual who receives benefits based on his or her association to a sponsor. A family member is often a dependent.
Federal employee.
Defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
Federally controlled facility.
Defined in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum M-05-24, “Implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12—Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors” (available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/fy2005/m05-24.pdf
).
Federally controlled information systems.
(1) An information technology system (or information system), as defined by the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 3502(8)).
(2) Information systems used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of
an agency or other organization on behalf of an agency (44 U.S.C. 3544(a)(1)(A)).
Financial dependency determination.
Service-level process used to determine whether the financial dependency of a dependent on a sponsor meets the requirement for benefits eligibility.
Foreign affiliate.
A foreign national, including foreign civilian, foreign contractor, or foreign uniformed services personnel, who is sponsored by their government in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.20, “Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/523020p.pdf
) through an assignment, temporary duty, school, training, policy board, or other defined agreement to work or reside on a DoD facility, or require access to DoD networks on-site or remotely.
Former member.
An individual who is eligible to receive retired pay, at age 60, for non-regular service pursuant to 10 U.S.C. chapter 1223 but who has been discharged and who maintains no military affiliation. These former members, at age 60, and their eligible dependents are entitled to medical care, commissary, exchange, and MWR privileges. Under age 60, they and their eligible dependents are entitled to commissary, exchange, and MWR privileges only.
Former spouse.
An individual who was married to a uniformed services member for at least 20 years, and the member had at least 20 years of service creditable toward retirement, and the marriage overlapped as follows:
(1) 20 years marriage, 20 years creditable service for retirement, and 20 years overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 20/20/20). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce;
(2) 20 years marriage, 20 years creditable service for retirement, and 15 years overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 20/20/15). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce; or
(3) A spouse whose marriage was terminated from a uniformed service member who has their eligibility to receive retired pay terminated as a result of misconduct based on Service-documented abuse of the spouse and has 10 years of marriage, 20 years of creditable service for retirement, 10 years of overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 10/20/10). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce.
Foster child.
A child without parental support and protection, placed with a person or family, usually by local welfare services or by court order. The foster parent(s) do not have custody, nor is there an adoption, but they are expected to treat the foster child as they would their own in regard to food, housing, clothing, and education. This is a non-medically entitled dependent.
Full-time student.
A child who has not attained the age of 23, who is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary and is, or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, dependent on the member or former member for more than 50 percent of the child's support.
Full-time work schedule.
Full-time employment with a basic 40-hour work week.
Inactive National Guard (ING).
Part of the Army National Guard. These individuals are Reservists who are attached to a specific National Guard unit, but who do not participate in training activities. On mobilization, they shall mobilize with their assigned units. These members muster with their units once a year. Issuance of DD Form 1173-1 “United States Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card (Guard and Reserve Family Member)” to ING dependents is mandatory.
Incapacitated person.
An individual who is impaired by physical disability, mental illness, mental deficiency, or other causes that prevent sufficient understanding or capacity to competently manage his or her own affairs.
Individual Ready Reserve (IRR).
Trained individuals who have previously served in the active component or Selected Reserve (SelRes) and have time remaining on their military service obligation. Includes volunteers who do not have time remaining on the military service obligation, but are under contractual agreement to be a member of the IRR. These individuals are mobilization assets and may be
called to active duty pursuant to the provisions of 10 U.S.C. chapter 1209. Issuance of DD Form 1173-1 to IRR dependents is mandatory.
Institution of higher learning.
A college, university, or similar institution, including a technical or business school, offering post secondary-level academic instruction that leads to an associate or higher degree, if the school is empowered by the appropriate State education authority under State law to grant an associate or higher degree. When there is no State law to authorize the granting of a degree, the school may be recognized as an institution of higher learning if it is accredited for degree programs by a recognized accrediting agency. The term also includes a hospital offering educational programs at the post secondary level regardless of whether the hospital grants a post secondary degree. The term also includes an educational institution that is not located in a State that offers a course leading to a standard college degree or equivalent and is recognized as such by the Secretary of Education (or comparable official) of the country or other jurisdiction in which the institution is located.
Intergovernmental Personnel Act personnel.
Employees covered by Public Law 91-648, “Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970.” The Intergovernmental Personnel Act mobility program provides temporary assignment of personnel between the Federal Government and State and local governments, colleges and universities, tribal governments, federally funded research and development centers, and other eligible organizations.
Intermittent work schedule.
Employment without a regularly scheduled tour of duty.
Invitational travel order (ITO).
The document authorizing travel by individuals either not employed by the government or employed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5703 intermittently in the government's service as consultants or experts and paid on a daily basis, when actually employed. ITOs include the names of accompanying dependents who may be eligible for DoD benefits in accordance with DoD policy and reciprocal international agreements.
Letter of authorization (LOA).
A document generated by Synchronized Predeployment and Operational Tracker (SPOT) that states the intended length of assignment, planned use of government facilities and privileges, and name of the approving governmental official.
Letter from a school registrar.
A letter certifying enrollment in a full-time in-residence, or online course of study, leading to an associate degree or higher and listing an anticipated graduation date. Students attending two institutions less than full-time may not combine courses from both institutions to meet full-time student status. Most colleges and universities contract with third parties, such as the National Student Clearinghouse, to verify student enrollment. These third parties must comply with 20 U.S.C. 1232g and 34 CFR part 99 and are considered official agents of the institution for that purpose. Such documentation is considered equivalent to and accepted in lieu of a letter from the registrar's office. For graduate students, a letter of acceptance of enrollment signed by an authorized officer of the college or university is required to serve as the school letter.
Marriage certificate.
State-certified record of marriage.
Medical sufficiency statement.
A statement from a physician from a military treatment facility or approved TRICARE provider used in conjunction with eligibility and dependency determinations. The statement includes a recent medical or psychiatric evaluation and diagnosis, a statement of illness (including the date, child's age, and onset of incapacity), the current treatment being rendered, the prognosis for recovery, and the ability to become self-supporting.
Medicare.
Health insurance for people age 65 or older, under 65 with certain disabilities, and any age with end-stage renal disease. The different parts of Medicare help cover specific services if certain conditions are met.
(1)
Medicare part A.
Covers hospice care, home health care, skilled nursing facilities, and inpatient hospital stays.
(2)
Medicare part B.
Covers doctors' services, outpatient hospital care, and other medical services that Part A does
not cover, such as physical and occupational therapy. Other examples include X-rays, medical equipment, or limited ambulance service.
Member.
An individual who is affiliated with a Service, either active duty, Reserve, active duty retired, or Retired Reserve. Retired members are not former members. Also referred to as the sponsor.
MWR.
A benefit that is extended to eligible individuals in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10, “Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/101510p.pdf
).
National Agency Check with Inquiries (NACI).
Is the minimum investigation conducted by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for federal employment in nonsensitive positions and for individuals requiring eligibility for logical and physical access. The NACI consists of a records check (of designated agencies of the Federal Government that maintain record systems containing information relevant to making a personnel security determination) plus Written Inquiries to law enforcement agencies, former employers and supervisors, references and schools covering the last 5 years.
Nonappropriated fund (NAF) employees.
NAF employees are Federal employees within the Department who are paid from NAFs. 5 U.S.C. 2105 explains the status of NAF employees as Federal employees.
Non-regular service retirement.
A person who, as a member of the Ready Reserve, serves on active duty or performs active service, after the date of the enactment of sections 647 and 1106 of Public Law 110-181 and may receive retired pay in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12731. Under these provisions the eligibility age for applying for retired pay shall be reduced below 60 years of age by 3 months for each aggregate of 90 days on which the member performs in any fiscal year after such date, providing the applicant is at least 50 years of age. However, the member must be age 60 to qualify for CHC and CD.
Notarization.
The official fraud-deterrent process that assures that the signatures on a document are authentic and valid. The signature of any such person acting as notary, together with the title of that person's offices, is
prima facie
evidence that the signature is genuine, that the person holds the designated title, and that the person is authorized to perform a notarial act. A person acting as notary must be impartial.
Part-time work schedule.
Part-time employment of 16 to 32 hours a week under a schedule consisting of an equal or varied number of hours per day.
Permanent employee.
Career or career-conditional appointment in the Competitive or SES or an appointment in the Excepted Service that carries no restrictions or conditions.
Placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense).
An authorized placement agency in the United States or U.S. territories or possessions that must be licensed for adoption by the State, territory, or possession in which the adoption procedures will be completed. In all other locations, a request for recognition must be approved by the appropriate Assistant Secretary of the Military Department concerned or an appropriate official who has been delegated approval authority.
Placement agreement.
An agreement between the State and the parent(s) placing the child in the legal custody of the parent(s). To establish the child as a pre-adoptive child, the placement agreement must include the intent to adopt.
Pre-adoptive child.
With respect to determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, an unmarried person who is placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by any other source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption of the child by the member or former member, and:
(1) Has not attained the age of 21; or
(2) Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary and is, or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, in fact dependent on the member or former member for over one-half of the child's support; or
(3) Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that occurs while a dependent of a member or former member and is, or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, in fact dependent on the member or former member for over one-half of the child's support.
Privileges.
Benefits or advantages allowed based on position, authority, relationship, or status and which may be removed by proper authority. Privileges are not necessarily “rights” specifically granted by law.
Ready Reserve.
Military members of the National Guard and Reserve, organized in units or as individuals, liable for recall to active duty to augment the active components in time of war or national emergency. The Ready Reserve consists of three Reserve Component subcategories: The SelRes, the IRR, and the ING.
Remarried parent.
A dependent parent of a deceased military member who loses dependency-based eligibility for benefits on remarriage.
Retired Reserve entitled to pay at age 60 (Gray Area Retirees).
Reserve members who have completed 20 qualifying years for retirement and are entitled to receive pay at age 60, but have not yet reached age 60. Reserve Retirees and their dependents receive commissary, MWR, and exchange benefits until the sponsor receives retired pay. Individuals may be recalled to active duty in accordance with 10 U.S.C.
Seasonal employment.
Annually recurring periods of work of less than 12 months each year. Seasonal employees generally are permanent employees who are placed in non-duty or non-pay status and recalled to duty in accordance with pre-established conditions of employment. Seasonal employees may have full-time, part-time, or intermittent work schedules.
Selected Reserve (SelRes).
Those National Guard and Reserve units and individuals within the Ready Reserve designated by their respective Services and approved by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as so essential to initial wartime missions that they have priority over all other Reserves. They must be prepared to mobilize within 24 hours. The issuance of DD Form 1173-1 to their dependents and participation in the Guard and Reserve DEERS Enrollment Program are mandatory.
Service Project Officer (SPO).
The uniformed services, National Guard and Reserve Component, and agency-level office that coordinates with OUSD(P
R) on policy and functional matters related to DEERS, RAPIDS, and Trusted Associate Sponsorship System (TASS), and manages ID card operations within the respective organization.
SES positions.
Appropriated fund positions in an agency classified above General Service-15 pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5108 or in level 4 or 5 of the Executive Schedule, or an equivalent position, which is not required to be filled by an appointment by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
Site security manager (SSM).
The SPO-appointed individual that manages the daily operations at a RAPIDS site to include managing users, cardstock, and consumables.
Sponsor.
The person affiliated to the DoD, uniformed service, or other Federal agency who is delegated the responsibility for verifying and authorizing an applicant's need for an ID card. This term also refers to the prime beneficiary who derives eligibility based on individual status rather than dependence upon or relationship to another person. This beneficiary receives benefits based on the beneficiary's direct affiliation to the DoD or other unformed service.
Spouse.
A person legally married to a current, former, or retired uniformed service member, eligible civilian employee, or other eligible individual in accordance with subpart C of this part, regardless of gender or State of residence.
Standby Reserve.
Personnel who maintain their military affiliation without being in the Ready Reserve, who have been designated key civilian employees, or who have a temporary hardship or disability. These individuals are not required to perform training and are not part of units. These individuals are trained and could be mobilized, if necessary, to fill manpower needs in specific skills.
Stepchild.
A natural or adopted child of a spouse of a sponsor and who qualifies as a child.
Surviving dependent.
The dependent of a member who died while on active duty under orders that specified a period of more than 30 days, or a member who died while in a retired with-pay status.
Temporary assignment.
An appointment for a specified period not to exceed 1 year. A temporary assignment can be extended up to a maximum of 1 additional year.
Transitional Health Care (THC).
A healthcare system, formerly known as Transition Assistance Management Program (TAMP), instituted in section 502 of Public Law 101-510. It includes pre-separation and separation services, the Continued Health Care Benefit Program, a voluntary insurance program for sponsors and eligible dependents separating from active service; pre-separation counseling service for separating uniformed services members; and various other transitional initiatives. Uniformed service members separated as uncharacterized entry-level separations do not qualify for THC. Section 706 of Public Law 108-375 replaced the TAMP with the THC program. Section 651 of Public Law 110-181 included the 2-year commissary and exchange privilege for involuntarily separated uniformed service members. The DoD added MWR to the benefit set and extended the same benefits to the eligible dependents. To qualify for benefits under this program, individuals must be separated with service characterized as honorable or general under honorable conditions meeting the separation reasons identified in 10 U.S.C. 1145. The THC program is a permanent program and made the medical eligibility 180 days for all eligible uniformed service members and eligible dependents. Enlisted uniformed service members discharged for reasons of misconduct, discharge in lieu of court-martial, or other reasons for which service normally is characterized as under other than honorable conditions are not eligible for transition benefits. Officers discharged as a result of resignation in lieu of trial by court-martial, or misconduct or moral or professional dereliction if the discharge could be characterized as under other than honorable conditions are not eligible for transition benefits. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1145, the qualifying periods of active duty include:
(1) A member who is involuntarily separated from active duty.
(2) A member of a Reserve Component who is separated from active duty to which called or ordered in support of a contingency operation if the active duty is for a period of more than 30 days.
(3) A member who is separated from active duty for which the member is involuntarily retained in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 12305 in support of a contingency operation.
(4) A member who is separated from active duty served pursuant to a voluntary agreement of the member to remain on active duty for a period of less than 1 year in support of a contingency operation.
(5) A member who receives a sole survivorship discharge (as defined in 10 U.S.C. 1174); or
(6) A member who is separated from active duty who agrees to become a member of the SelRes. Section 734 of Public Law 110-417, which took effect on October 14, 2008 extended THC benefits to a uniformed service member who is separated from active duty who agrees to become a member of the SelRes of the Ready Reserve of a Reserve Component.
Trusted Agent (TA).
An individual appointed by a TASM that serves as a sponsor for eligible populations within TASS, utilizes TASS to register data for the DD Form 1172-2 (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/eforms/dd1172-2.pdf
), re-verifies CAC holder affiliation, and revokes CACs.
Trusted Agent Security Manager (TASM).
An individual appointed by a SPO to oversee the activity for a specific TASS site and associated TAs. These individuals also serve in the TA role.
Trusted Associate Sponsorship System (TASS) (formerly known as Contractor Verification System (CVS)).
A Web application used to verify that CAC applicants have the appropriate government sponsorship for the purpose of issuing CACs. The TASS web interface
automates the DD Form 1172-2 for tracking the request process and updating DEERS with applicant information required for CAC issuance. The system also provides a mechanism for periodic re-verification of contractor eligibility to ensure that information is current and contractor CACs do not remain active when not appropriate. This capability will be expanded to support registration and background investigation confirmation for additional CAC eligible populations.
United States.
The 50 United States and the District of Columbia.
Unmarried.
A widow or widower who remarried and whose remarriage ended by death or divorce, or a former spouse of a sponsor whose subsequent remarriage ended by death or divorce.
Unremarried.
A widow or widower who has never remarried, or a former spouse whose only remarriage was to the same military sponsor. Periods of marriage in this case may be combined to document eligibility for former spouse benefits.
U.S. territories and possessions.
Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
VA rating determination letter.
A letter from the appropriate VA authorities that establishes that the uniformed service member has been rated as 100 percent disabled or incapable of pursuing substantially gainful employment by the VA.
Verifying Official (VO).
An individual who is responsible for validating eligibility of bona fide beneficiaries to receive benefits and entitlements.
Voluntary acknowledgment of paternity.
A document recognized by relevant and applicable State law as establishing legal paternity. Such documents must be certified as a “true copy” by the appropriate state office.
Ward.
An unmarried person who is placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or a U.S. territory or possession) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; is dependent on the member or former member for more than 50 percent of the person's support; resides with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may by regulation prescribe; is not a dependent of a member or a former member under 10 U.S.C. 1072(2); and either:
(1) Has not attained the age of 21;
(2) Has not attained the age of 23 and is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary; or
(3) Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that occurred while the person was considered a dependent of the member or former member.
Widow.
The female spouse of a deceased member of the uniformed Services.
Widower.
The male spouse of a deceased member of the uniformed Services.
[79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74875, Oct. 27, 2016; 89 FR 11179, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.4
Policy.
(a) It is DoD policy that a distinct DoD ID card shall be issued to uniformed service members, their dependents, DoD civilian employees, and other eligible individuals and will be used as proof of identity and DoD affiliation.
(b) DoD ID cards shall serve as the Geneva Convention Card for eligible personnel in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.1, “Identity Cards Required by the Geneva Convention” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/100001p.pdf
).
(c) DoD ID cards shall be issued through a secure and authoritative process in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25, “DoD Personnel Identity Protection (PIP) Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/100025p.pdf
).
(d) The CAC, a form of DoD ID card, shall serve as the Federal Personal Identity Verification (PIV) card for DoD implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12, “Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors” (available at
http://
www.dhs.gov/xabout/laws/gc_1217616624097.shtm
).
(e) ID cards, in a form distinct from the CAC, shall be issued and will serve as proof of identity and DoD affiliation for eligible communities that do not require the Federal PIV card that complies with Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 and FIPS Publication 201-3, “Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors” (available at
https://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.201-3
).
[79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74877, Oct. 27, 2016; 89 FR 11179, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The USD(P
R) shall:
(1) Oversee implementation of the procedures within this part.
(2) Establish overall policy and procedures for the issuance of ID cards to members of the uniformed services, their dependents, and other eligible individuals.
(3) Establish minimum acceptable criteria for establishment and confirmation of personal identity, policy for the issuance of the DoD enterprise personnel identity credentials, and approve of additional systems under the PIP Program in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25.
(4) Act as the Principal Staff Assistant (PSA) for the DEERS, the RAPIDS, and the Personnel Identity Protection (PIP) Program in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25.
(5) Maintain the DEERS data system in support of the Department of Defense in accordance with applicable law and directives.
(6) Develop and field the required RAPIDS infrastructure and all elements of field support to issue ID cards including but not limited to software distribution, hardware procurement and installation, on-site and depot-level hardware maintenance, on-site and Web-based user training and central telephone center support, and telecommunications engineering and network control center assistance.
(7) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT
L)), and the DoD Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO) establish policy and oversight for CAC life-cycle compliance with FIPS Publication 201-3.
(8) Establish procedures that will uniquely identify personnel with specific associations with the Department of Defense and maintain the integrity of the unique personnel identifier in coordination with the DoD Components in accordance with DoD Directive 8320.03, “Unique Identification (UID) Standards for a Net-Centric Department of Defense” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/832003p.pdf
).
(b) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs (ASD(RA)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R), shall develop policies and establish guidance for the National Guard and Reserve Component communities that affect benefits, entitlements, identity, and ID cards.
(c) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy (DASD(MC
FP)), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R), shall develop policy and procedures to determine eligibility for access to DoD programs for MWR; commissaries; exchanges; lodging; children and youth; DoD schools; family support; voluntary and post-secondary education; and other military community and family benefits that affect identity and ID cards.
(d) The Director, Defense Human Resources Activity (DHRA), under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P
R) and in addition to the responsibilities in paragraph (h) of this section, shall, in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25:
(1) Develop policies and procedures for the oversight, funding, personnel staffing, direction, and functional management of the PIP Program.
(2) Coordinate with the Principal Under Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)), and the ASD(RA) on changes to enrollment and eligibility policy and procedures pertaining to personnel, medical, and dental issues that affect the PIP Program.
(3) Develop policies and procedures to support the functional requirements of the PIP Program, DEERS, and the DEERS client applications.
(4) Secure funding in support of new requirements to support the PIP Program or the enrollment and eligibility functions of DEERS and RAPIDS.
(5) Approve the addition or elimination of population categories eligible for ID cards in accordance with applicable law.
(6) Establish the type and form of ID card issued to eligible populations categories and administer pilot programs to determine the suitable form of ID card for newly identified populations.
(7) Determines and maintains a list of forms of documentation that are acceptable for the purpose of eligibility verification, in accordance with applicable law.
(8) Through the Director, Defense Manpower Data Center:
(i) Provides and maintains training on the examination and inspection of documentation for the purpose of eligibility verification for DEERS enrollment, record management, and ID card issuance.
(ii) Supports and maintains the development of automated data feeds to DEERS that serve as authoritative eligibility sources for applicable DoD ID card-eligible personnel.
(iii) Supports and maintains the development of the Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) as the application used to incorporate and collect eligibility documentation.
(e) The USD(AT
L) shall:
(1) Update the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), current edition (available at
http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfarspgi/current/index.html
) to support requirements for CAC and Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 for contracts.
(2) Ensure that the requirement for contractors to return CACs at the completion or termination of each individual's support on a specific contract is included in all applicable contracts.
(f) The USD(I) shall:
(1) Establish policy for the use of DoD issued ID cards for physical access purposes in accordance with DoD 5200.08-R, “Physical Security Program” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/520008r.pdf
).
(2) Establish policy for military, civilian, and contractor employee background investigation, submission, and adjudication across the Department of Defense, in compliance with Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 and Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Cards Under HSPD-12” (available at
http://www.opm.gov/investigate/resources/final_credentialing_standards.pdf
).
(g) The DoD CIO shall:
(1) In coordination with the USD(I), USD(P
R), and USD(AT
L), establish policy and oversight for CAC life-cycle compliance with Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 201-1.
(2) Provide guidance regarding the use of DoD and non-DoD identification credentials on DoD information systems, including the Federal PIV cards, for authenticating to DoD network accounts and DoD private Web sites.
(3) Ensure that the DoD Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) conforms to all applicable FIPS to the greatest extent possible.
(h) The OSD and DoD Component heads other than the Secretaries of the Military Departments, shall:
(1) Develop and implement Component-level procedures for DoD directed policies and statutory requirements to support benefits eligibility through DEERS.
(2) Develop and implement Component-level ID card life-cycle procedures to comply with the provisions of this Instruction.
(3) Ensure all DoD employees, uniformed service members, and all other eligible CAC applicants, including contractor employees and other affiliate CAC applicants, have met the background investigation requirements referenced in paragraph (a)(3) of § 161.6 of this part prior to approving CAC sponsorship and registration. Background investigation status must be verified and documented by the sponsor or sponsoring organization in conjunction with application for CAC issuance.
(4) Establish processes and procedures as part of the normal check-in and check-out process for collection of the CAC for all categories of DoD personnel and contractor employees when
there is a separation, retirement, termination, contract termination or expiration, or CAC revocation. Since CACs contain personally identifiable information (PII), they shall be treated and controlled in accordance with 32 CFR part 310, and DoD 5200.1-M, Volume 4, “DoD Information Security Program: Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/520001_vol4.pdf
). CACs shall be returned to any RAPIDS issuance location for proper disposal in a timely manner once surrendered by the CAC holder.
(5) Provide appropriate space and staffing for all DoD ID card issuing operations, as well as reliable telecommunications to and from the Defense Information Systems Agency managed Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network.
(6) Provide funding for CAC cardstock, printer consumables, and electromagnetically opaque sleeves to Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC).
(7) Protect cardstock and consumables in accordance with the guidelines and standards issued and maintained by DMDC.
(8) In accordance with FIPS Publication 201-3, provide electromagnetic opaque sleeves or other comparable technologies to protect against any unauthorized contactless access to the cardholder unique identification number stored on the CAC.
(9) Manage the distribution and locations of CAC personal identification number (PIN) reset workstations.
(10) To the maximum extent possible, and in accordance with DoD Components' designated accrediting authority guidelines, ensure networked workstations are properly configured and available for CAC holders to use the User Maintenance Portal-Post Issuance Portal (UMP-PIP) service.
(11) Oversee supervision of TASS TAs and TA security managers and ensure the number of contractors overseen by any TA is manageable.
(12) Comply with the provisions of this part and provide timely and accurate support to the provisions of this part.
(13) Ensure that the policies and procedures in subpart D of this part are implemented to protect the privacy of individuals in the collection, use, maintenance, and dissemination of personally identifiable information, in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.
(i) The Secretaries of the Military Departments; Director, Division of Commissioned Corps Personnel and Readiness, USPHS; and Administrator, NOAA, shall:
(1) Appoint project officers from a level that represents the Service position of the active, National Guard, and Reserve Components for personnel policy to serve on the Joint Uniformed Services Personnel Advisory Committee.
(2) Comply with the provisions of this part and other related policy and procedural guidance from the Department of Defense.
(3) Coordinate with the Director, DoDHRA, through the Joint Uniformed Services Personnel Advisory Committee, to determine if the list of acceptable eligibility documentation needs to be amended to add new documents or remove outdated documents.
(4) Ensure that the policies and procedures in this subpart are implemented to protect the privacy of individuals in the collection, use, maintenance, and dissemination of personally identifiable information, in accordance with 32 CFR part 310.
[79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74878, Oct. 27, 2016; 89 FR 11179, Feb. 14, 2024; 89 FR 18543, Mar. 14, 2024]
§ 161.6
Procedures.
(a) The DoD ID card life cycle shall be supported by an infrastructure that is predicated on a systems-based model for credentialing as described in FIPS Publication 201-3. Paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section represent the baseline requirements for the life cycle of all DoD ID cards. The specific procedures and sequence of order for these items will vary based on the applicant's employment status or affiliation with the DoD and the type of ID card issued. Detailed procedures of the ID card life cycle for each category of applicant and type of ID card shall be provided by the responsible agency.
(1)
Sponsorship and eligibility.
Sponsorship shall incorporate the processes for confirming eligibility for an ID
card. The sponsor is the person affiliated with the DoD or other Federal agency who takes responsibility for verifying and authorizing the applicant's need for an ID card. Applicants for a CAC must be sponsored by a DoD government official or employee.
(2)
Registration and enrollment.
Sponsorship and enrollment information on the ID card applicant shall be registered in DEERS prior to card issuance.
(3)
Background investigation.
Background investigation is required for those individuals eligible for a CAC. A background investigation is not currently required for those eligible for other forms of DoD ID cards. Sponsored CAC applicants shall not be issued a CAC without a favorably adjudicated background investigation stipulated in FIPS Publication 201-3. Applicants that have been denied a CAC based on an unfavorable adjudication of the background investigation may submit an appeal in accordance with FIPS Publication 201-3 and Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.”
(4)
Identity and eligibility verification.
Identity and eligibility verification shall be completed at a RAPIDS workstation. Verifying officials (VOs) shall inspect identity and eligibility documentation and RAPIDS shall authenticate individuals to ensure that ID cards are provided only to those sponsored and with a current affiliation with the DoD. RAPIDS shall also capture uniquely identifying characteristics that bind an individual to the information maintained on that individual in DEERS and to the ID card issued by RAPIDS. These characteristics may include, but are not limited to, digital photographs and fingerprints.
(5)
Issuance.
ID cards shall be issued at the RAPIDS workstation after all sponsorship, enrollment and registration, background investigation (CAC only), and identity and eligibility verification requirements have been satisfied.
(6)
Use and maintenance.
ID cards shall be used as proof of identity and DoD affiliation to facilitate access to DoD facilities and systems. Additionally, ID cards shall represent authorization for entitled benefits and privileges in accordance with DoD policies.
(7)
Retrieval and revocation.
ID cards shall be retrieved by the sponsor or sponsoring organization when the ID card has expired, when it is damaged or compromised, or when the card holder is no longer affiliated with the DoD or no longer meets the eligibility requirements for the card. The active status of an ID card shall be revoked within the DEERS and RAPIDS infrastructure and the PKI certificates on the CAC shall be revoked.
(b) The guidelines and restrictions of this paragraph apply to all forms of DoD ID cards.
(1) Any person willfully altering, damaging, lending, counterfeiting, or using these cards in any unauthorized manner is subject to fine or imprisonment or both, as prescribed in 18 U.S.C. 499, 506, 509, 701, and 1001. Section 701 of 18 U.S.C. prohibits photographing or otherwise reproducing or possessing DoD ID cards in an unauthorized manner, under penalty of fine or imprisonment or both. Unauthorized or fraudulent use of ID cards would exist if bearers used the card to obtain benefits and privileges to which they are not entitled. Examples of authorized photocopying include photocopying of DoD ID cards to facilitate medical care processing, check cashing, voting, tax matters, compliance with 50 U.S.C. appendix 501 (also known as “The Service member's Civil Relief Act”), or administering other military-related benefits to eligible beneficiaries. When possible, the ID card will be electronically authenticated in lieu of photographing the card.
(2) International agreements (including status-of-forces agreements) and host-nation law may limit and/or define the types of support available to personnel in overseas areas. Although an ID card may be used to verify eligibility in the United States for access to, for example, commissary or exchange facilities, the use of such facilities overseas may be limited to persons who are stationed or performing temporary duty in a foreign country under official orders in support of a mutual defense mission with the host nation.
ID cards shall be issued only for the purposes identified in and in accordance with this Instruction, and the Heads of the DoD Components shall use other means, such as ration cards, to implement provisions in international agreements or to prevent violations of applicable host-nation law. ID cards shall not be issued for the sole purpose of implementing provisions of international agreements or restrictions based on applicable host-nation law.
(3) All ID cards are property of the U.S. Government and shall be returned upon separation, resignation, firing, termination of contract or affiliation with the DoD, or upon any other event in which the individual no longer requires the use of such ID card.
(4) To prevent any unauthorized use, ID cards that are expired, invalidated, stolen, lost, or otherwise suspected of potential or actual unauthorized use shall be revoked in DEERS along with the PKI certificates on the CACs immediately revoked.
(5) There are instances where graphical representations of ID cards are necessary to facilitate the DoD mission. When used and distributed, the replicas must not be the same size as the ID card, must have the word “SAMPLE” written on them, and shall not contain an individual's PII. All SAMPLE ID cards must be maintained in a controlled environment and shall not serve as a valid ID.
(6) Individuals within the DoD who have multiple personnel category codes (e.g., an individual who is both a reservist and a contractor) shall be issued a separate ID card in each personnel category for which they are eligible. Multiple current ID cards of the same form (e.g., CAC) shall not be issued or exist for an individual under a single personnel category code.
(7) ID cards shall not be amended, modified, or overprinted by any means. No stickers or other adhesive materials are to be placed on either side of an ID card. Holes shall not be punched into ID cards, except when a CAC has been requested by the next of kin for an individual who has perished in the line of duty. A CAC provided to next of kin shall have the status of the card revoked in DEERS, have the certificates revoked, and have a hole punched through the integrated circuit chip before it is released to the next of kin.
(8) An ID card shall be in the personal custody of the individual to whom it was issued at all times. If required by military authority, it shall be surrendered for ID or investigation.
(c)
CAC migration to Federal PIV requirements.
The DoD is migrating the CAC to meet the Federal requirements for credentialing contained within Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 and FIPS Publication 201-3. Migration will take place over multiple years as the card issuance hardware, software, and supporting systems and processes are upgraded. Successful migration will require coordination and collaboration within and among all CAC communities (e.g., personnel security, operational security, industrial security, information security, physical security, and information technology). The organizations listed in this section will support the migration in conjunction with the responsibilities listed in § 161.5:
(1) The Director, DMDC shall:
(i) Procure and distribute CAC consumables, including card stock, electromagnetically opaque sleeves, and printer supplies, commensurate with funding received from the DoD Components.
(ii) In coordination with the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, establish an electronic process for securing CAC eligibility information on foreign government military, employee, or contract support personnel whose visit status and background investigation has been confirmed, documented, and processed in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.20, “Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/523020p.pdf
).
(iii) In accordance with FIPS Publication 201-3, electronically capture and store source documents in the identity-proofing process at the accession points for eligible ID card holders.
(iv) Implement modifications to the CAC applets and interfaces, add contactless capability to the CAC platform and implement modifications to the CAC topology to support compliance with FIPS Publication 201-3.
(v) Establish and implement procedures for capturing biometrics required to support CAC issuance, which includes fingerprints and facial images specified in FIPS Publication 201-3 and National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-76-1, “Biometric Data Specification for Personal Identity Verification” (available at
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-76-1/SP800-76-1_012407.pdf
).
(vi) In coordination with the Executive Manager for DoD Biometrics and the Office of the USD(AT
L), implement the capability to obtain two segmented images (primary and secondary) fingerprint minutiae from the full 10-print fingerprints captured as part of the initial background investigation process for CAC issuance.
(vii) Maintain a capability for a CAC holder to reset or unlock PINs from a system outside of the CAC issuance infrastructure.
(2) The Executive Manager for DoD Biometrics, as appointed by the Secretary of the Army as DoD Executive Agent for DoD Biometrics in accordance with DoD Directive 8521.01E, “Department of Defense Biometrics” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/852101p.pdf
), shall:
(i) Establish biometric standards for collection, storage, and subsequent transmittal of biometric information in accordance with DoD Directive 8521.01E (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/852101p.pdf
).
(ii) In coordination with the USD(P
R), the USD(I), and the Heads of the DoD Components, establish capability for biometric collection and enrollment operations to support CAC issuance in accordance with 32 CFR part 310 and National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-76-1 (available at
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-76-1/SP800-76-1_012407.pdf
).
(3) The Identity Protection and Management Senior Coordinating Group shall:
(i) Monitor the CAC and identity management related activities outlined within this Instruction in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25 (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/100025p.pdf
).
(ii) Maintain a configuration management process for the CAC and its related components to monitor DoD compliance with FIPS Publication 201-3.
[79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74878, Oct. 27, 2016; 89 FR 11179, Feb. 14, 2024]

# Subpart B—DoD Identification (ID) Cards: ID Card Life-Cycle
§ 161.7
ID card life-cycle procedures.
(a)
Sponsorship and eligibility.
In accordance with this part, sponsorship shall incorporate the processes for confirming eligibility for an ID card. The sponsor is the person affiliated with the DoD or other Federal agency who takes responsibility for verifying and authorizing the applicant's need for an ID card. Applicants for a CAC shall be sponsored by a DoD Government official or employee.
(1) The population categories and specific ID cards for which applicants are eligible are listed in Appendix 1 of this section. The majority of these populations are eligible to be sponsored for an ID card based on either their employment status with the DoD or their authorization to receive DoD benefits and entitlements. Examples of these population categories include, but are not limited to: Uniformed services personnel; DoD civilian employees; military retirees; certain DoD beneficiaries; and the eligible dependents for these categories.
(2) Specific populations, listed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of Appendix 1 of this section who are eligible to submit for the “U.S. DoD/Uniformed Service ID Card” may only be sponsored if they meet additional criteria. Examples of these population categories include DoD contractors, non-DoD Federal civilians, State employees, and other non-DoD personnel that have an affiliation with the DoD other than through employment or contract. Eligibility for these approved population categories is based on the DoD Government sponsor's determination of the type and frequency of access required to DoD facilities or networks. For the populations described in this paragraph, the applicant's sponsor must confirm that
the applicant meets one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section:
(i) Both physical access to a DoD facility and access, via logon, to DoD networks on-site or remotely. Access to the DoD network must require the use of a computer with Government-controlled configuration or use of a DoD-approved remote access procedure in accordance with the Defense Information Systems Agency Security Technical Implementation Guide, “Secure Remote Computing” (available at
http://iase.disa.mil/stigs/a-z.html
under “Remote. . .”).
(ii) Remote access, via logon, to a DoD network using DoD-approved remote access procedures.
(iii) Physical access to multiple DoD facilities or multiple non-DoD federally controlled facilities on behalf of the DoD (applicable to DoD contractors only) on a recurring basis for a period of 6 months or more.
(A) The frequency of “recurring basis” for access shall be determined by the DoD Component concerned in coordination with installation security policies.
(B) CAC eligibility for applicants requiring physical access to multiple DoD facilities on a recurring basis for less than 6 months are risk-based decisions that shall be made by the DoD Component concerned in coordination with installation security policies. These applicants may instead be eligible for local or regional base passes in accordance with Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)) and local installation security policies and procedures.
(b)
Registration and enrollment.
In accordance with this part, sponsorship and enrollment information about the ID card applicant shall be registered in the DEERS prior to card issuance.
(1) For uniformed services personnel and DoD civilians, all submissions to DEERS must be made electronically via an authorized data source feed (e.g., Civilian Personnel Management Service). Data source feeds for additional population categories shall be approved and incorporated by the Office of the USD(P
R) (OUSD(P
R)) as they become available.
(2) The population categories that are not registered via an authorized data source feed will be registered in DEERS via the RAPIDS using the DD Form 1172-2 or via the TASS (formerly known as CVS, as described in § 161.8 of this subpart.
(c)
Background Investigation.
In accordance with this subpart and DoDI 5200.46, “DoD Investigative and Adjudicative Guidance for Issuing the Common Access Card (CAC)” (available at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/ directives/corres/pdf/ 520046p.pdf
), a background investigation is required for those individuals eligible for a CAC. A background investigation is not currently required for those eligible for other forms of DoD ID cards. The use of the CAC, as the DoD Federal personal identity verification (PIV) card, is governed and supported by additional policies when compared to non-CAC ID cards.Sponsored CAC applicants shall not be issued a CAC without the required background investigation stipulated in DoDI 5200.46 and FIPS Publication 201-3.
(1) A background investigation shall be initiated by the sponsoring organization before a CAC can be issued. The mechanisms required to verify completion of background investigation activities for DoD, military, and civilian CAC populations are managed within the DoD human resources and personnel security communities and are linked to the CAC issuance process. An automated means is not currently in place to confirm the vetting for populations other than DoD military and civilian personnel such as CAC-eligible contractors and non-DoD Federal civilian affiliates. When data is not available within the CAC issuance infrastructure on the background investigation status for an applicant, the sponsor shall be responsible for confirming that the required background investigation procedures comply with the DoD Instruction 5200.46 and FIPS Publication 201-3 before a CAC is authorized for issuance.
(2) Issuance of a CAC requires, at a minimum, the completion of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) fingerprint check with favorable results and successful submission of a NACI (or investigation approved in Federal
Investigative Standards) to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Completed background investigations for CAC issuance shall be adjudicated in accordance with DoD Instruction 5200.46 and Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12” (available at
http://www.opm.gov/investigate/resources/final_credentialing_standards.pdf
).
(3) Except for uniformed services members, special considerations for conducting background investigations of non-U.S. nationals are addressed in DoD Instruction 5200.46. Non-U.S. person CAC applicants that do not meet the criteria to complete a NACI (e.g., U.S. residency requirements), must meet one of the criteria in paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section prior to CAC issuance. CACs issued to these non-U.S. persons shall display a blue stripe as described in appendix 2 of this section. Procedures for the acceptance of this CAC shall be in accordance with DoD Instruction 5200.46 and Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.” The specific background investigation conducted on the non-U.S. person may vary based on governing international agreements. Non-U.S. persons must:
(i) Possess (as foreign military, employee, or contract support personnel) a visit status and security assurance that has been confirmed, documented, and processed in accordance with international agreements pursuant to DoD Directive 5230.20, “Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/ 523020p.pdf
).
(ii) Meet (as direct or indirect DoD hire personnel overseas) the investigative requirements for DoD employment as recognized through international agreements pursuant to Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, “DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Employment of Foreign Nationals” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/html/CPM_table2.html
). In addition to these investigative requirements, a fingerprint check against the FBI criminal history database, an FBI investigations files (name check search), and a name check against the Terrorist Screening Database shall be required prior to CAC issuance in accordance with Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.”
(d)
Identity and eligibility verification.
In accordance with this part, identity and eligibility verification shall be completed at a RAPIDS workstation. VOs shall inspect identity and eligibility documentation and RAPIDS shall authenticate individuals to ensure that ID cards are provided only to those sponsored and who have a current affiliation with the DoD. RAPIDS shall also capture uniquely identifying characteristics that bind an individual to the information maintained in DEERS and to the ID card issued by RAPIDS. These characteristics may include, but are not limited to, digital photographs and fingerprints.
(1)
Identity documents.
Applicants for initial ID card issuance shall submit two identity documents in original form as proof of identity. A VO at a RAPIDS workstation shall inspect and verify the documents presented by the applicant before ID card issuance. The identity documents must come from the list of acceptable primary and secondary documents included in the FIPS Publication 201-3 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements, or, for non-U.S. persons, other sources as outlined within paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. Copies of the identity documentation may be accepted so long as they are certified documents. In accordance with FIPS Publication 201-3 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements, the identity documents shall be neither expired nor cancelled. The primary identity document shall be a State or Federal Government-issued picture ID. The identity documents shall be inspected for authenticity and scanned and stored in the DEERS in accordance with the DMDC, “Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide” upon issuance of an ID card. The requirement for the primary identity document to have a photo cannot be waived for initial ID
card issuance, consistent with applicable statutory requirements. Identity documentation requirements for renewal or re-issuance are provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. When it has been determined that a CAC applicant has purposely misrepresented or not provided the applicant's true identity, the case shall be referred by the relevant RAPIDS Service Project office (SPO) to the sponsoring DoD or other Uniformed Service Component organization. The DoD or other Uniformed Service Component organization concerned shall initiate an investigation or provide appeals procedures as appropriate. Exceptions to the identity documentation requirements for initial ID card issuance are provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:
(i)
Children.
Children under the age of 18 applying for a dependent ID card are only required to provide documentation for the initial verification of eligibility or proof of relationship to the sponsor described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Documentation for non-U.S. persons.
At foreign locations, eligible non-U.S. persons may not possess identity documentation from the FIPS Publication 201-3 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements required for ID card issuance. These individuals shall still provide personal ID as required by the intent of this paragraph (d)(1). Non-U.S. persons within the United States and U.S. territories and possessions shall present a valid (unexpired) foreign passport as the primary form of identity source documentation. DoD organizations based outside the United States and U.S. territories and possessions should work with the local consular affairs office to determine guidelines for the appropriate identity documentation for eligible non-U.S. persons in accordance with agreements with host nations. It is recommended that a foreign passport be used as the primary form of identity source documentation for these individuals. The requirement for the primary identity document to have a photo cannot be waived. A foreign government issued ID with photograph may be used as a secondary document for ID card issuance. Additional documentation used to verify identity must be original or certified true copies. All documentation not in English must have a certified English translation.
(2)
Eligibility documents.
ID card applicants may be required to provide documentation as initial verification of eligibility for benefits or proof of relationship to the sponsor. The eligibility documents shall be inspected for authenticity by the VO and scanned and stored in DEERS in accordance with the procedures in DMDC, “Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide.” Specifications and the types of documents and how they are utilized to verify eligibility for a member or dependent based on their status (e.g., Retired, Reservist, spouse, former spouse, child) shall be established by the uniformed services subject to the guidelines in this subpart. All documentation used to verify eligibility must be original or certified true copies. All documentation not in English must have a certified English translation. Eligibility documentation is not required when DEERS can verify eligibility via an authoritative source or process.
(3)
DEERS verification.
The VO shall utilize DEERS to verify affiliation and eligibility for benefits as described in subpart C of this part.
(4)
Biometrics.
In accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25, ID card applicants shall provide two fingerprint biometric scans and a facial image, to assist with authenticating the applicant's identity and to bind the information maintained on that individual in DEERS and to the ID card issued by RAPIDS. These requirements shall be integrated into the ID card issuance processes in the following manner:
(i) A digitized, full-face passport-type photograph will be captured for the facial image and stored in DEERS and shall have a plain white or off-white background. No flags, posters, or other images shall appear in the photo. All ID cards issued will display a photograph.
(ii) Two fingerprints are captured for storage within DEERS for applicable ID card applicants. The right and left index fingers shall normally be designated as the primary and secondary finger, respectively. However, if those fingers cannot be imaged, the primary
and secondary designations shall be taken in the following order of priority: Right thumb, left thumb, right middle finger, left middle finger, right ring finger, left ring finger, right little finger, left little finger.
(iii) If two fingerprints cannot be captured, the facial image will be the alternative for authenticating ID card applicants and ID card holders during the issuance process. Additionally, when verification or capture of biometrics is not possible, authorization will be provided by the RAPIDS SSM's digital signature. This transaction shall be subject to audit by DMDC and the uniformed services.
(e)
Issuance.
In accordance with this part, ID cards shall be issued at the RAPIDS workstation after all sponsorship, enrollment and registration, background investigation (CAC only), and identity and eligibility verification requirements have been satisfied. Initial issuance of an ID card to an applicant will be contingent on satisfying the criteria in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(1)
Cross-servicing.
The uniformed services agree to cross-service the issuance of ID cards when affiliation and eligibility can be verified in DEERS. When eligibility cannot be verified through DEERS, presentation of documentation shall be required. The uniformed services shall restrict cross-servicing for verification of the DD Form 1172-2 and eligibility documentation to the parent uniformed service for the categories in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section:
(i) Initial application for permanently incapacitated individuals over age 21 and temporarily incapacitated children over age 21.
(ii) All dependent parents and parents-in-law.
(iii) Illegitimate child of a male sponsor, whose paternity has not been judicially determined.
(iv) Illegitimate child of spouse or sponsor.
(v) Unremarried and unmarried former spouses applying for initial issuance of an ID card.
(vi) Retiree from other services, and former members not currently enrolled in DEERS.
(vii) Surviving dependents of Reserve Retirees on the sponsor's 60th birthday.
(viii) Abused dependents.
(ix) Wards.
(2)
Expiration dates
—(i)
CACs.
Except as noted in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, CACs shall be issued for a period not to exceed 3 years from the date of issuance or contract expiration date, whichever is shorter. Unfunded contract options shall be considered in the determination of the length of contract. For example, a contractor hired under DoD contract with a base year plus 2 option years shall be issued a CAC with a 3-year expiration. The expiration date of the PKI certificates on the CAC shall match the expiration date on the card.
(A) CACs issued to DoD civilian employees, contractors, and other eligible personnel assigned overseas or deploying in support of contingency operations shall have an expiration date coinciding with their deployment period end date.
(B) Service Academy students shall be issued 4-year cards with 3-year certificates.
(ii)
Non-CAC ID cards.
(A) DD Form 1173, “United States Uniformed Services ID and Privilege Card” issued to dependents of DoD civilian employees, contractors, and other eligible personnel assigned overseas or deploying in support of contingency operations shall have an expiration date coinciding with their deployment period end date.
(B) An indefinite DD Form 1173 will be issued to the dependents of retired Service members who are either 65 years of age or permanently incapacitated in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1060b.
(C) All other non-CAC ID cards shall be given expiration dates in accordance with the guidance listed on
www.cac.mil
.
(3)
Renewal and reissuance.
Consistent with applicable law, the applicant for ID renewal or reissuance shall be required to surrender the current DoD ID card that is up for renewal or reissuance except as indicated for lost and stolen ID cards in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section. An expired DoD ID card is an acceptable secondary form of ID for non-CAC ID card renewal
or reissuance if identity document verification is required. To authenticate renewal or reissuance applicants, the VO shall visually compare the applicant against the facial image stored in DEERS. For applicants who have fingerprint biometrics stored in DEERS, live fingerprint biometrics samples shall be checked against the applicant's DEERS record. If the biometric check confirms the identity of the renewal or reissuance applicant then no additional documentation is required to verify identity other than the ID card that is being renewed or reissued (documentation may still be required to verify or re-verify eligibility as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section). As a general practice for renewal or re-issuance, two fresh fingerprint biometric captures may be stored for applicable personnel through the initial procedures in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section to support DMDC's biometric update schedule. If biometric information cannot be verified, the requirements for initial issuance shall apply or a temporary card may be issued in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this subpart.
(i) An ID card holder may apply for a renewal starting 90 days prior to the expiration of a valid ID. The SPO can provide exceptions to this requirement.
(ii) An ID card shall be reissued when printed information requires changes (e.g., pay grade, rank, change in eligibility), when any of the media (including printed data, magnetic stripe, bar codes, or integrated circuit chip) becomes illegible or inoperable, or when a CAC is known or suspected to be compromised.
(iii) An ID card shall be reissued when it is reported lost or stolen. The individual reporting a lost or stolen ID card shall be required to provide a valid (unexpired) State or Federal Government-issued picture ID as noted in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, consistent with applicable law, when available. If the individual is unable to present the required identity documentation, a biometric verification shall be used as proof of identity as described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section. The VO shall verify the cardholder's identity against the biometric information stored in DEERS and confirm the expiration date of the missing ID card. The individual shall also be required to present documentation from the local security office or ID card sponsor confirming that the ID card has been reported lost or stolen. This documentation must be scanned and stored in DEERS. For dependents, the DD Form 1172-2 serves as the supporting documentation for a lost or stolen card. For individuals sponsored through TASS, the replacement ID card shall have the same expiration date as the lost or stolen card.
(A) If no identity documentation is available but biometric information (facial image or fingerprint when applicable) in the DEERS database can be verified by the VO, an ID card can be reissued to the individual upon the additional approval of a SSM. This transaction shall be digitally signed and audited.
(B) If biometric information cannot be verified, the requirements for initial issuance shall apply or a temporary card may be issued in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(4)
Temporary cards
—(i)
Temporary issuance of a CAC.
During contingency operations, in the event there is no communication with the DEERS database or the certificate authority, a temporary CAC may be issued with an abbreviated expiration date for a maximum of 10 days. The temporary card will not have PKI certificates and will be replaced as soon as the member can reach an online RAPIDS station or communications have been restored. Additionally, the temporary CAC does not communicate or imply eligibility to any DoD benefit. This capability will be enabled only at affected RAPIDS sites and must have approval granted by DMDC.
(ii)
Temporary issuance of a Uniformed Services Identification card.
There are multiple scenarios under which a temporary Uniformed Services Identification card may be issued. The uniformed services shall develop standard processes and procedures for scenarios requiring issuance of a temporary DD Forms 2765 “Department of Defense/Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card” or DD 1173, including but not limited to those situations where the applicant needs to obtain the
necessary legal documentation or the sponsor is unavailable to provide an authorizing signature.
(5)
Multiple cards.
Individuals shall be issued a separate ID card for each population category for which they qualify as described in Appendix 1 of this section. In instances where an individual has been issued more than one ID card (e.g., an individual that is eligible for an ID card as both a Reservist and as a DoD contractor employee), only the ID card that most accurately depicts the capacity in which the individual is affiliated with the DoD should be utilized at any given time.
(f)
Use and maintenance.
In accordance with this part, ID cards shall be used as proof of identity and DoD affiliation to facilitate access to DoD facilities and systems. Additionally, ID cards shall represent authorization for entitled benefits and privileges in accordance with DoD policies. The CAC, as the DoD Federal PIV card, is governed and supported by additional policies and infrastructure when compared to non-CAC ID cards. This section provides additional guidance on CAC use and maintenance:
(1)
Access.
The granting of access privileges is determined by the facility or system owner as prescribed by the DoD.
(2)
Accountability.
CAC holders will maintain accountability of their CAC at all times while affiliated with the DoD.
(3)
PKI.
Using the RAPIDS platform, DoD PKI identity and PIV authentication certificates will be issued on the CAC at the time of card issuance in compliance with OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.” Email signature, email encryption, or PIV authentication certificates may also be available on the CAC either upon issuance or at a later time. If the person receiving a CAC does not have an organization email address assigned to them, they may return to a RAPIDS terminal or use milConnect to receive their email certificate when the email address has been assigned. To help prevent inadvertent disclosure of controlled information, email addresses assigned by an organization shall comply with DoD Instruction 8500.2, “Information Awareness (IA) Implementation” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/850002p.pdf
).
(4)
milConnect.
DoD has a self-service Web site available that allows an authenticated CAC holder to add applets to the CAC, change the email address, add/update Email Signature and Email Encryption Certificates, and activate the Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Authentication certificate. This capability can be utilized from any properly configured UNCLASSIFED networked workstation. The milConnect Web site is
https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/milconnect.
(5)
CAC Personal ID Number (PIN) Reset.
DoD has manned workstations capable of resetting the PINs of a CAC holder with a locked card or forgotten PIN. These workstations are intended to provide alternative locations for CAC holders to service their cards other than RAPIDS issuance locations. To authenticate cardholders, live biometric samples shall be checked against the biometrics stored in DEERS prior to resetting CACs. This process requires the presence of a CPR trusted agent (CTA) or TASM or RAPIDS VO or SSM.
(g)
Retrieval and revocation.
In accordance with this part, ID cards shall be retrieved by the sponsor or sponsoring organization when the ID card has expired, when it is damaged or compromised, or when the card holder is no longer affiliated with the DoD or no longer meets the eligibility requirements for the card. The active status of the card shall be terminated within the DEERS and RAPIDS infrastructure. The CAC, as the DoD Federal PIV card, is governed and supported by additional policies and infrastructure when compared to non-CAC ID cards. This section provides additional guidance on CAC retrieval and revocation:
(1) CACs shall be retrieved as part of the normal organizational or command-level check-out processes. The active status of the CAC shall also be terminated in special circumstances (e.g., absent without leave, unauthorized absence, missing in action) in accordance with organization or command-level security policies.
(2) The DoD sponsor or sponsoring organization is ultimately responsible for retrieving CACs from their personnel who are no longer supporting their organization or activity with the exception of transferring DoD civilian employees. Civilian employees transferring from one DoD Component to another as civilian employees (
e.g.,
Army civilian to Air Force civilian) will be permitted to retain their CAC during their transition for up to 30 days in accordance with the DoD CIO and USD(P
R) joint memorandum, “Common Access Card Retention for Department of Defense Civilian Employees when Transferring Between Department of Defense Components.” CAC retrieval will be documented and treated as personally identifiable information, in accordance with DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, and 32 CFR part 310 and receipted to a RAPIDS site for disposition in a timely manner.
(3) Upon loss, destruction, or revocation of the CAC, the certificates thereon are revoked and placed on the certificate revocation list in accordance with Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration Certificate Policy, “X.509 Certificate Policy for the United States Department of Defense” (available at
http://jitc.fhu.disa.mil/pki/documents/dod_x509_certificate_policy_v9_0_9_february_2005.pdf
). All other situations that pertain to the disposition of the certificates are handled in accordance with Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration Certificate Policy, “X.509 Certificate Policy for the United States Department of Defense” as implemented.

# Appendix 1 to § 161.7—ID Card Descriptions and Population Eligibility Categories
(a)
Overview.
Paragraphs (b) through (e) of this appendix contain information on the CAC type of ID card. The remaining paragraphs in the appendix contain information on all other versions of DoD enterprise-wide ID cards. This appendix describes these cards and lists some of the categories of populations that are eligible to be sponsored for the cards under the guidelines described in paragraph (a) of § 161.7; additional ID-card eligible categories are codified in subpart C of this part. RAPIDS accesses DEERS information collected by the DD Form 1172-2 to generate all of the ID Cards identified in this appendix. The benefits and entitlements that support ID card eligibility for populations in this appendix are described in subpart C of this part. Guidelines and restrictions that pertain to all forms of DoD ID cards are included in this part.
(b)
Armed Forces of the United States Geneva Conventions ID Card
—(1)
Description.
This CAC is the primary ID card for uniformed services members and shall be used to identify the member's eligibility for benefits and privileges administered by the uniformed services as described in subpart C of this part. The CAC shall also be used to facilitate standardized, uniform access to DoD facilities, and installations in accordance with Directive Type Memorandum 09-012, “Interim Policy Guidance for DoD Physical Access Control” (available at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/DTM-09-012.pdf
) and DoD 5200.08-R, “Physical Security Program,” and to computer systems in accordance with DoD Instruction 8520.02, “Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling,” (available at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/852002p.pdf
).
(i) The card shall also serve as ID for purposes of Geneva Convention requirements in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.01.
(ii) If a member is captured as a hostage, detainee, or prisoner of war (POW), the card shall be shown to the capturing authorities, but, insofar as possible, should not be surrendered.
(2)
Eligibility.
Those populations eligible for this type of CAC include:
(i) Members of the regular components of the Military Services.
(ii) Members of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve of the Reserve Components.
(iii) Members of the IRR of the Ready Reserve authorized in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense to perform duty in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 10147.
(iv) Uniformed services members of NOAA and USPHS.
(c)
U.S. DoD or Uniformed Services ID Card
—(1)
Description.
This CAC is the primary ID card for eligible civilian employees, contractors, and foreign national affiliates and shall be used to facilitate standardized, uniform access to DoD facilities, and installations in accordance with Directive Type Memorandum 09-012, “Interim Policy Guidance for DoD Physical Access Control” and DoD 5200.08-R, “Physical Security Program,” and computer systems in accordance with DoD Instruction 8520.02, “Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling.”
(2)
Eligibility.
(i) DoD civilian employees are eligible for this CAC, to include:
(A) Individuals appointed to appropriated fund and NAF positions.
(B) USCG and NOAA civilian employees.
(C) Permanent or time-limited employees on full-time, part-time, or intermittent work schedules for 6 months or more.
(D) SES, Competitive Service, and Excepted Service employees.
(ii) Eligibility for additional populations shall be based on a combination of the personnel category and the DoD Government sponsor's determination of the type and frequency of access required to DoD networks and facilities described in paragraph (a) of § 161.7 of this subpart. These personnel categories include:
(A) Non-DoD civilian employees to include:
(
1
) State employees working in support of the National Guard.
(
2
) IPA employees.
(
3
) Non-DoD Government Agency Civilian Personnel that are working in support of DoD but do not possess a Federal PIV card that is accepted by the sponsoring DoD Component.
(B) DoD contractors.
(C) USCG and NOAA contractors.
(D) Persons whose affiliation with DoD is established through:
(
1
)
Direct and Indirect Hiring Overseas.
Non-U.S. citizens hired under an agreement with the host nation and paid directly by the uniformed services (direct hire) or paid by an entity other than the uniformed services for the benefits of the uniformed services (indirect hire).
(
2
)
Assignment as Foreign Military, Foreign Government Civilians, or Foreign Government Contractors to Support DoD Missions.
Non-U.S. citizens who are sponsored by their government as part of an official visit or assignment to work with DoD.
(
3
)
Procurement Contracts, Grant Agreements or Other Cooperative Agreements.
Individuals who have an established relationship between the U.S. Government and a State, a local government, or other recipient as specified in 31 U.S.C. 6303, 6304, and 6305.
(d)
U.S. DoD or Uniformed Services ID and Privilege Card
—(1)
Description.
This CAC is the primary ID card for civilian employees, contractors, and foreign national military, as well as other eligible individuals entitled to benefits and privileges administered by the uniformed services as described in subpart C of this part. The CAC shall be used to facilitate standardized, uniform access to DoD facilities, and installations in accordance with Directive Type Memorandum 09-012, “Interim Policy Guidance for DoD Physical Access Control” and DoD 5200.08-R, “Physical Security Program,” and computer systems in accordance with DoD Instruction 8520.02, “Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling.”
(2)
Eligibility.
Specific population categories are entitled to benefits and privileges, in accordance with subpart C of this part, and shall be eligible for this CAC, to include:
(i) DoD and uniformed services civilian employees when stationed or employed and residing in foreign countries for a period of at least 365 days.
(ii) DoD contractors when stationed or employed and residing in foreign countries for a period of at least 365 days.
(iii) DoD Presidential appointees who have been appointed with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(iv) Civilian employees of the Army and Air Force Exchange System, Navy Exchange System, and Marine Corps Exchange System and NAF activity employees of the Coast Guard Exchange Service.
(v) Uniformed and non-uniformed full-time paid personnel of the Red Cross assigned to duty with the uniformed services within the United States and U.S. territories and possessions, when required to reside in a household on a military installation.
(vi) Uniformed and non-uniformed, full-time, paid personnel of the Red Cross assigned to duty with the uniformed services in foreign countries.
(vii) Foreign military who meet the eligibility requirement of paragraph (a)(2) of § 161.7 and are in one of the categories in paragraphs (d)(2)(viii)(A) through (C) of this appendix. Those foreign military not meeting the eligibility requirements for CAC as described in paragraph (a)(2) of § 161.7 shall be issued a DD Form 2765 as described in paragraph (l) of this appendix.
(e)
U.S. DoD or Uniformed Service Geneva Conventions ID Card for Civilians Accompanying the Armed Forces
—(1)
Description.
This CAC serves as the DoD and/or Uniformed Services Geneva Conventions ID card for civilians accompanying the uniformed services and shall be used to facilitate standardized, uniform access to DoD facilities, and installations in accordance with Directive Type Memorandum 09-012, “Interim Policy Guidance for DoD Physical Access Control” and DoD 5200.08-R, “Physical Security Program,” and computer systems in accordance with DoD Instruction 8520.02, “Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Public Key (PK) Enabling.”
(2)
Eligibility.
The following population categories are eligible for this CAC:
(i) Emergency-essential employees as defined in DoD Directive 1404.10, “DoD Civilian Expeditionary Workforce” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/140410p.pdf
).
(ii) Contractors authorized to accompany the force (contingency contractor employees) as defined in Joint Publication 1-02 (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/new_pubs/jp1_02.pdf
).
(f)
DD Form 2, “Armed Forces of the United States Identification Card (Reserve).
”—(1)
Description.
This is the primary ID card for RC members not eligible for a CAC. Benefits and
privileges shall be administered by the uniformed services as described in subpart C of this part.
(i) The DD Form 2S (RES) shall serve as ID for purposes of the Geneva Convention requirements in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.01.
(ii) If a member is captured as a hostage, detainee, or POW, the DD Form 2S (RES), shall be shown to the capturing authorities, but, insofar as possible, should not be surrendered.
(2)
Eligibility.
Those populations eligible for the DD Form 2S (RES) include:
(i) Ready Reserve, who are not otherwise entitled to either DD Form 2S (RET), “Armed Forces of the United States Geneva Conventions Identification Card (Retired) (Blue),” or a CAC.
(ii) The Standby Reserve.
(iii) The Reserve Officers' Training Corps College Program students that have signed a contract leading to military service.
(g)
DD Form 2S (Ret)
—(1)
Description.
This is the primary ID card for retired uniformed services members entitled to retired pay. Benefits and privileges shall be administered by the uniformed services as described in subpart C of this part.
(2)
Eligibility.
Members of the uniformed services who are entitled and in receipt of retired pay, or entitled and have waived their retired pay, are eligible for the DD 2S (RET).
(h)
DD Form 2, “United States Uniformed Services Identification Card (Reserve Retired).
”—(1)
Description.
This is the primary ID card for members of the National Guard or Reserves who have completed 20 creditable years of service and have elected to be transferred to the Retired Reserve. They will qualify for pay at age 60, or earlier if they have qualified contingency service.
(2)
Eligibility.
Members of the Reserve Components who are entitled to retired pay at age 60 (or earlier if they have qualified contingency service) and have not yet attained age 60 are eligible for the DD Form 2 (Reserve Retired).
(i)
DD Form 1173
—(1)
Description.
This is the primary ID card for dependents and other similar categories of individuals eligible for benefits and privileges administered by the uniformed services as described in subpart C of this part.
(2)
Eligibility.
Specific population categories entitled to benefits and privileges as described in subpart C of this part are eligible for the DD Form 1173 to include:
(i) Dependents of active duty Service members of the regular components, Reserve Component Service members on active duty for more than 30 days, and retirees.
(ii) Surviving dependents of active duty members.
(iii) Surviving dependents of retired military members.
(iv) Surviving dependents of MOH recipients and surviving dependents of honorably discharged veterans rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as 100 percent disabled from a uniformed services-connected injury or disease at the time of his or her death.
(v) Accompanying dependents of foreign military.
(vi) Dependents of authorized civilian personnel overseas.
(vii) Other benefits eligible categories as described in subpart C of this part.
(j)
DD Form 1173-1, “Department of Defense Guard and Reserve Family Member Identification Card.”
—(1)
Description.
This is the primary ID card for dependents of Ready Reserve and Standby Reserve members not on active duty in excess of 30 days. When accompanied by a set of the sponsor's valid active duty orders, the card shall be used in place of a DD Form 1173 for a period of time not to exceed 270 days, if the member is called to active duty by congressional decree or Presidential call-up under 10 U.S.C. chapter 1209.
(2)
Eligibility.
Eligible dependents of Reserve Component members and retirees as described in subpart C of this part are eligible for the DD Form 1173-1.
(k)
DD Form 2764, “United States DoD/Uniformed Services Geneva Conventions Card.
”—(1)
Description.
This is the primary ID for non-CAC eligible civilian noncombatant personnel who are deployed in conjunction with military operations overseas. The DD Form 2764 also replaces DD Form 489, “Geneva Conventions Identity Card for Civilians Who Accompany the Armed Forces.”
(2)
Eligibility.
Civilian noncombatant personnel who have been authorized to accompany U.S. forces in regions of conflict, combat, and contingency operations and who are liable to capture and detention by the enemy as POWs are eligible for the DD Form 2764 in accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.01.
(l)
DD Form 2765
—(1)
Description.
This is the primary ID card for categories of individuals, other than current or retired members of the uniformed services, who are eligible for uniformed services benefits and privileges in their own right without requiring a current affiliation with another sponsor.
(2)
Eligibility.
Those populations eligible for the DD Form 2765 include:
(i) Foreign national military personnel described in paragraph (d)(2)(viii) of this appendix that cannot meet all criteria for CAC issuance.
(ii) Former members.
(iii) Members eligible for transitional health care (THC). These individuals shall be eligible for DD Form 2765 showing expiration date for each benefit, as shown on the reverse of the card.
(iv) MOH recipients.
(v) DAV (rated 100 percent disabled by the Department of Veterans Affairs).
(vi) DoD beneficiaries (eligible former spouses, widows, widowers, and abused dependents)
(vii) Civilian personnel in the categories listed in paragraphs (l)(2)(vii)(A) through (D) of this appendix:
(A) Other U.S. Government agency civilian employees when stationed or employed and residing in foreign countries for a period of at least 365 days.
(B) Full-time paid personnel of the United Service Organization, when serving in foreign countries.
(C) United Seaman's Service (USS) personnel in foreign countries.
(D) Military Sealift Command (MSC) civil service marine personnel deployed to foreign countries on MSC-owned and -operated vessels.
(m)
DoD Civilian Retiree Card
—(1)
Description.
This ID shall only be used to establish DoD civilian retiree identity and previous affiliation with the DoD.
(2)
Eligibility.
Appropriated and NAF civilians that have retired from any DoD Service component or agency are eligible for the DoD Civilian Retiree Card. These civilians must have their retired status verified in DEERS before an ID card can be issued.
(n)
NOAA Retired Wage Mariner and Family Member Card
—(1)
Description.
The NOAA Retired Wage Mariner and Family Member Card is a sub-category of the DoD Civilian Retiree Card and shall be used to establish identity and affiliation with the DoD and to identify the individual's eligibility for benefits and privileges administered by the uniformed services as described in subpart C of this part.
(2)
Eligibility.
Retired Wage Mariners of NOAA and their dependents as described in subpart C of this part are eligible for the NOAA Retired Wage Mariners and Family Members Card.

# Appendix 2 to § 161.7—Topology Specifications
(a)
Topology.
Graphical representations of all CACs are maintained at
www.cac.mil.
(b)
CAC stripe color coding.
The CAC shall be color-coded as indicated in the Table to reflect the status of the holder of the card. If a person meets more than one condition as shown in the Table, priority will be given to the blue stripe to denote a non-U.S. citizen unless the card serves as a Geneva Conventions card.
(1) If a person meets more than one condition as shown in the Table, priority will be given to the blue stripe to denote a non-U.S. citizen unless the card serves as a Geneva Conventions card.
(2) FIPS Publication 201-3 reserves the color red to distinguish emergency first responder officials. Until the DoD implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 is complete, the color red will also be used to denote non-U.S. personnel in the same manner as the blue stripe in the Table (i.e., some cards with red stripes may continue to exist in circulation until the 3-year life cycle is complete).
Table—CAC Stripe Color Coding
No stripe
U.S. military and DoD civilian personnel or any personnel eligible for a Geneva Conventions card
Blue
Non-U.S. personnel, including DoD contract employees (other than those persons requiring a Geneva Conventions card).
Green
All U.S. citizen personnel under contract to the DoD (other than those persons requiring a Geneva Conventions card).
(c)
CAC printed statements
—(1) Eligible individuals who are permanently assigned in foreign countries for at least 365 days (it should be noted that local nationals are in their home country, not a foreign country) will have the word “OVERSEAS” printed within the authorized patronage area of the CAC.
(2) The authorized patronage area for eligible individuals permanently assigned within the United States and U.S. territories and possessions will be blank. Travel orders authorize access for these individuals while en route to the deployment site.
(3) During a conflict, combat, or contingency operation, civilian employees with a U.S. DoD or Uniformed Services Geneva Conventions ID Card for Civilians Accompanying the Uniformed Services will be granted all commissary; exchange; MWR; and medical privileges available at the site of the deployment, regardless of the statements on the ID card. Contractor employees possessing this ID card shall receive the benefit of those commissary, exchange, MWR, and medical privileges that are accorded to such persons by international agreements in force between the United States and the host country concerned and their letter of authorization.
(4) The medical area on the card for individuals on permanent assignment in a foreign country will contain the statement: “When TAD/TDY or stationed overseas on a space available fully reimbursable basis.”
However, civilian employees and contractor employees providing support when forward deployed during a conflict, combat, or contingency operation are treated in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 10147 and chapters 1209 and 1223 and DoD Instruction 3020.41, “Operational Contract Support” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/302041p.pdf
), and the Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “Policy Guidance for Provision of Medical Care to Department of Defense Civilian Employees Injured or Wounded While Forward Deployed in Support of Hostilities” (available at
http://cpol.army.mil/library/nonarmy/dod_092407.pdf
).
(d)
Blood type indicators.
A blood type indicator is an optional data element on the ID card and will only appear on the card if the blood type is provided by an authoritative data source prescribed by TRICARE Management Activity.
(e)
Organ donor indicators.
An organ donor indicator is an optional data element on the ID card and will only appear if the card applicant opts for this feature at the time of card issuance.
[79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74878, Oct. 27, 2016; 89 FR 11179-11180, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.8
ID card life-cycle roles and responsibilities.
(a)
General.
This section provides the roles and responsibilities associated with a series of processes and systems that support the ID card life-cycle. The requirements provided in this section may be supplemented by military Service guidance, DoD Component-level procedures and DMDC procedural and system documentation on DEERS, RAPIDS, TASS, and CPR.
(b)
Separation of duties.
The ID card life-cycle includes a requirement for a separation of duties to support the issuance process. This rule requires more than one person to serve in an official role during the sponsorship and enrollment and issuance processes. Authorizing a RAPIDS SSM or VO to exercise the duties of a TASS TASM, TA, or sponsor would allow a single individual to control the ID card issuance process, from record creation to card issuance. Individuals serving in the role of a RAPIDS SSM or VO shall not exercise the role of the TASS TASM or TA or the role of the signatory sponsor on the DD Form 1172-2. (In the case of their own dependents, a RAPIDS SSM or VO can serve as the sponsor on the DD Form 1172-2 but cannot serve as the VO for card issuance.)
(c)
DD Form 1172-2.
The DD Form 1172-2 shall be used to collect the information necessary to register ID card and CAC applicants in DEERS via RAPIDS who are not enrolled through an authorized personnel data feed or are not registered through TASS. The DD Form 577, “Appointment/Termination Record—Authorized Signature,” shall be used to verify the sponsoring individual's signature, when verification through RAPIDS is unavailable. This form is to be used primarily for DEERS enrollment and verification of initial and continued association for dependents and DoD affiliates (e.g., foreign national military). The DD Form 1172-2 shall also be used to add benefits conditions for eligible personnel in accordance with DMDC, “Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide” and subpart C of this part. Retention and disposition of the DD Form 1172-2 shall be in accordance with the uniformed services' regulatory instructions. In the absence of electronic verification of sponsorship for the enrollment or reenrollment of dependents, the sponsor signing block 65 in Section 5 of the DD Form 1172-2 for the ID card applicant:
(1) Shall be a uniformed services member, retiree, civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or an individual entitled to DoD benefits in their own right, without requiring relationship to another sponsor, as described in subpart C of this part.
(2) Must be a DoD ID card or CAC holder.
(3) Shall establish the applicant's initial and continued relationship to the sponsor, affiliation with DoD, and need for a CAC card in accordance with this subpart and DoD Component-level procedures.
(d)
TASS.
TASS shall serve as the sponsorship and DEERS data registration tool for CAC-eligible DoD contractors and other populations as determined by the Director, DHRA. TASS employs an automated version of the DD Form 1172-2 to collect information necessary for DEERS enrollment. Organizations that use TASS shall adhere
to the following guidelines on user roles:
(1)
Service Point of Contact (SPOC).
A DoD Component that utilizes TASS shall appoint a SPOC for TASS management and operation. The SPOC shall coordinate with the DMDC to establish a site with TASS capability. The SPOC shall create policies, operating procedures, and other supporting documentation in support of the Service or agency-specific implementation. The SPOC will oversee TASM registration, and provide any other required field support. The TASS SPOC:
(i) Must be a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Must be a uniformed services member, civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or a DoD contractor providing management support to the service or agency implementing TASS (a contractor cannot perform the TA or TASM role).
(iii) Must be capable of sending and receiving digitally signed and encrypted email.
(iv) Must be a CAC holder.
(v) Shall complete the training provided by DMDC for the TASM and TA roles.
(2)
TASM.
The TASM will act as a TA and oversee the activity for TASS site TAs. A TASS TASM:
(i) Must be a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Must be a uniformed services member or a DoD civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization.
(iii) Must be capable of sending and receiving digitally signed and encrypted email.
(iv) Must be a CAC holder.
(v) Shall complete the training provided by DMDC for the TASM role.
(3)
TA.
TAs shall be sponsors for eligible populations within TASS and will utilize TASS to register data for the DD Form 1172-2, re-verify CAC holder affiliation, and revoke CACs in accordance with this part and the DMDC “Contractor Verification System TASS (CVS) TASM/TA and Applicant User Guides, Version 3.03” (available at
https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/appj/cvs/login
). Sponsoring an applicant is a multi-step process which includes establishing the individual's eligibility in accordance with paragraph (a) of § 161.7 of this subpart and verifying that the individual has the necessary background investigation completed to be issued a CAC in accordance with paragraph (c) of
§ 161.7
of this subpart. A TASS TA:
(i) Must be a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Must be a uniformed services member, a DoD civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or a non DoD Federal agency employee approved by DHRA.
(iii) Must be capable of sending and receiving digitally signed and encrypted email.
(iv) Must be a CAC holder.
(v) Shall complete the training provided by DMDC for the TA role.
(vi) Shall manage no more than 100 active contractors at any given time within TASS. Exceptions to this limit can be authorized by the DoD Component concerned to address specific contract requirements that substantiate a need for a larger contractor-to-TA ratio. The DoD Component SPOC shall document any authorized exceptions to the 100-contractors limit and shall, at a minimum, conduct annual audits on the oversight functions of these specific TAs.
(vii) Shall coordinate with their contracting personnel when establishing the contractor's initial and continued affiliation with DoD and need for CACs in accordance with agency or Component-level procedures.
(viii) Shall coordinate with their contracting, human resources, or personnel security organizations to confirm that the appropriate background check has been completed for CAC applicants.
(ix) Shall re-verify a CAC holder's need for a CAC every 6 months (180 days) within TASS.
(x) Shall revoke the CAC within the TASS upon termination of employment or completion of affiliation with the DoD.
(xi) Shall ensure that the CAC is retrieved upon the CAC holder's termination of employment or completion of affiliation with the DoD.
(e)
RAPIDS.
RAPIDS must be operated in accordance with DMDC, “Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide.” RAPIDS shall be supported by:
(1)
SSM.
The SSM shall manage the daily operations at a RAPIDS site to
include managing users, cardstock, and consumables. The SPO shall assign a primary and secondary SSM to each site to ensure the site continues to function in the absence of one of the SSMs. The SSM shall perform all responsibilities of a RAPIDS user (VO), as well as all SSM responsibilities. The SSM shall:
(i) Be a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Be a uniformed services member, civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or a DoD contractor.
(iii) Be a CAC holder.
(iv) Complete the training provided by DMDC for the SSM and VO roles.
(v) Be responsible for supporting RAPIDS functions delineated in DMDC, “Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide.”
(vi) Must have a favorably adjudicated NACI.
(2)
VO.
The VO shall complete identity and eligibility verification and card issuance functions in accordance with this part. The VO:
(i) Must be a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Must be a uniformed services member, civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or a DoD contractor.
(iii) Must be a CAC holder.
(iv) Shall complete the training provided by DMDC for the VO role.
(v) Be responsible for supporting RAPIDS functions delineated in DMDC, “Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide.”
(f)
CPR.
Organizations that utilize CPR shall adhere to the guidelines in this section on user roles:
(1)
CPR project officer.
The CPR project officer (CPO) shall be appointed by the Service or Agency as the focal point for day-to-day CPR management and operation. The CPO:
(i) Must be a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Must be a uniformed services member, civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or a DoD contractor.
(iii) Must be a CAC holder.
(iv) Must establish sites with CPR capability, oversee CPR TASM registration, and ensure other required field support in accordance with DMDC and Service- or agency-level guidelines.
(2)
CPR TASM.
The CPR TASM manages the CPR trusted agent (CTA) operations. The CPR TASM:
(i) Must be a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Must be a uniformed services member, civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or a DoD contractor.
(iii) Must be a CAC holder.
(iv) Shall complete the required training and manage CTA operations in accordance with DMDC and Service- or agency-level guidelines.
(3)
CTA.
The CTA's primary role is to provide PIN reset. The CTA:
(i) Must be a U.S. citizen.
(ii) Must be a uniformed services member, civilian employee working for the sponsoring organization, or a DoD contractor.
(iii) Must be a CAC holder.
(iv) Shall complete the required training and conduct CPR operations in accordance with DMDC and Service- or agency-level guidelines.

# Subpart C—DoD Identification (ID) Cards: Benefits for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Dependents, and Other Eligible Individuals

# Source:
81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 161.9
DoD benefits.
The benefits population is defined by roles. There are roles that have a direct affiliation with the DoD, such as an active duty Service member, or those that have an association to someone who is affiliated, such as the spouse of an active duty member. This section reflects benefit eligibility established by law and associated DoD policy, and addresses the roles that receive benefits. These benefits can include civilian health care, direct care at an MTF, commissary, exchange, and MWR, which are conveyed on the authorized CAC or uniformed services ID card. Sections 161.10 through 161.22 identify the categories of eligible persons and their authorized benefits as they would be recorded in the Defense
Eligibility Enrollment Reporting System (DEERS).
(a) Sections 161.10 through 161.22 reflect the eligibility of persons for the benefits administered by the uniformed services in accordance with 10 U.S.C. chapter 55 and DoD Instruction 1330.17, “Armed Services Commissary Operations” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/133017p.pdf
); DoD Instruction 1330.21, “Armed Services Exchange Regulations” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/133021p.pdf
); and DoD Instruction 1015.10.
(1) Additional benefits may be authorized by DoD Instruction 1330.17, DoD Instruction 1330.21, and DoD Instruction 1015.10, but are not printed on the DoD ID card; access to benefits may be facilitated in another manner in accordance with DoD Instruction 1330.17, DoD Instruction 1330.21, and DoD Instruction 1015.10.
(2) Installation commanders may never authorize benefits beyond those allowed by DoD Instruction 1330.17, DoD Instruction 1330.21, and DoD Instruction 1015.10, but they may deny privileges indicated when base support facilities cannot handle the burden imposed as authorized by DoD Instruction 1330.17, DoD Instruction 1330.21, and DoD Instruction 1015.10.
(b) A sponsor's begin date for benefit eligibility is based on the date the sponsor begins their affiliation with the Department.
(c) A dependent's begin date for benefit eligibility is based on the date the dependent becomes associated as an eligible dependent to an eligible sponsor.
(d) Guidance on benefit eligibility begin dates and ID card expiration dates based on benefits will be maintained at
http://www.cac.mil.
(e) Refer to the figure 1 to this subpart for abbreviations for the tables in this subpart.
Figure 1 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits Table Abbreviations
CHC
civilian health care.
DC
direct care at MTFs.
C
commissary privileges.
MWR
MWR privileges.
E
exchange privileges.
§ 161.10
Benefits for active duty members of the uniformed services.
This section describes the benefits for active duty uniformed services members and their eligible dependents administered by the uniformed services in accordance with 10 U.S.C. chapter 55. Descriptions of benefits for National Guard and Reserve members and their eligible dependents are contained in § 161.11. Descriptions of benefits for surviving dependents of active duty uniformed services members are contained in § 161.17.
(a)
Active duty service members.
Active duty uniformed services members are eligible for benefits administered by the uniformed services as shown in Table 1 to this subpart.
Table 1 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Active Duty Members, Not Including National Guard or Reserve Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Member (Self)
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes.
(b)
Dependents of active duty members.
Dependents of active duty members are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 2 to this subpart. Benefits for the eligible dependents of National Guard or Reserve members, non-regular Service retirees not yet age 60, or members entitled to retired pay or who are in receipt of retired pay for non-regular service, and non-regular Service retirees who are not in receipt of retired pay are identified in §§ 161.11 through 161.14.
Table 2 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Dependents of Active Duty Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Spouse
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
Yes
Yes
1
1
1.
Ward
3
3
3
3
3.
Pre-adoptive Child
4
4
1, 4
1, 4
1, 4.
Foster Child
No
No
1
1
1.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
5
5
6
6
6.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
2
2
2
2.
Notes:
1. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
2. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
3. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and:
a. Is dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Resides with the member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary or Director may, by regulation, prescribe.
4. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another organization authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the member.
5. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary and is dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member and is dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
6. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary and is dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11180, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.11
Benefits For National Guard and Reserve members of the uniformed services.
This section describes the benefits for National Guard and Reserve members of the uniformed services and their eligible dependents. Benefits for members of the Retired Reserve and their eligible dependents are described in § 161.13. Benefits for surviving dependents of deceased National Guard and Reserve members are described in § 161.17.
(a)
National Guard and Reserve members.
National Guard and Reserve members are eligible for benefits based on being ordered to periods of active duty or full-time National Guard duty or active status in the SelRes, including Ready Reserve and Standby Reserve and participation in the Reserve Officer Training Corps.
Table 3 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for National Guard and Reserve Members Not on Active Duty Greater Than 30 Days
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Member (Self)
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Table 4 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for National Guard and Reserve Members on Active Duty for Periods Greater Than 30 Days
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Member (Self)
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Notes:
1. This includes reported periods of early identification of Service members in support of a contingency operation in accordance with DoD Instruction 7730.54, “Reserve Components Common Personnel Data System (RCCPDS)” (available at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/773054p.pdf
).
(b)
Dependents of National Guard or Reserve members.
Dependents of National Guard or Reserve members are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 5 to this subpart.
Table 5 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Dependents of National Guard or Reserve Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Spouse
1
1
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
1
1
2
2
2.
Ward
1, 4
1, 4
4
4
4.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 5
1, 5
2, 5
2, 5
2, 5.
Foster Child
No
No
2
2
2.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 6
1, 6
7
7
7.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
1, 3
3
3
3.
Notes:
1. Yes, if the sponsor is on active duty greater than 30 days. When the order to active duty period is greater than 30 days the eligibility for CHC and DC for eligible dependents begins on the same day the sponsor becomes eligible for active duty benefits.
2. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent support of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
4. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and:
a. Is dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Resides with the member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
5. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the member.
6. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member and is dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11180, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.12
Benefits for former uniformed services members.
This section describes the benefits for former uniformed services members and their eligible dependents. Former members are eligible to receive retired pay, at age 60, for non-regular service in accordance with 10 U.S.C. chapter 1223, but have been discharged from their respective Service or agency and maintain no military affiliation.
(a)
Former members and their eligible dependents.
Former members and their dependents are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 6 to this subpart.
Table 6 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Former Members and Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Former Member (Self)
1
1
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Spouse
1
2
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
1
2
3
3
3.
Ward
1, 5
2, 5
5
5
5.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 6
2, 6
3, 6
3, 6
3, 6.
Foster Child
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 7
2, 7
8
8
8.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
2, 4
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, if the former member is age 60 or over and in receipt of retired pay for non-regular service; and is:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA, or
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010.”
2. Yes, if former member is age 60 or over and in receipt of retired pay for non-regular service.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and:
a. Is dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Resides with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
6. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the member or former member.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the former member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member or former member, and is dependent on the member or former member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the former member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the former member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(b) [Reserved]
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11181, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.13
Benefits for retired members of the uniformed services.
This section describes the benefits for retired uniformed service members entitled to retired pay and their eligible dependents. Retired uniformed service members are entitled to retired pay and eligible for benefits administered by the uniformed services in accordance with 10 U.S.C., DoD Instruction 1330.17, DoD Instruction 1330.21, DoD Instruction 1015.10, and TRICARE Policy Manual 6010.57-M (available at
http://www.tricare.mil/contracting/healthcare/t3manuals/change2/tp08/c8s9_1.pdf
). This includes voluntary, temporary, and permanent disability retired list (PDRL) retirees. Benefits for former members and their eligible dependents are described in § 161.12.
(a)
Retired members.
Benefits for voluntary retired members and PDRL retirees are shown in Table 7 to this subpart. Benefits for temporary disability retired list (TDRL) retirees are shown in Table 8 to this subpart.
Table 7 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Voluntary Retired Members and PDRL Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Member (Self)
1
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Notes:
1. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA or
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
Table 8 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for TDRL Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Member (Self)
1, 2
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Notes:
1. If not removed sooner, retention of the service member on the TDRL shall not exceed a period of 5 years. The uniformed service member must be returned to active duty, separated with or without severance pay, or retired as PDRL in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1210.
2. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA or
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
(b)
Retired Reserve.
Benefits for members of the Retired Reserve who have attained 20 creditable years of service, have not reached the age of 60, and are not in receipt of retired pay are shown in Table 9 to this subpart. When a Retired Reserve member is ordered to active duty greater than 30 days, their benefits will reflect what is shown in Table 10 to this subpart. When a Retired Reserve member is in receipt of retired pay under age 60 (non-regular Service retirement), or upon reaching age 60, their benefits will reflect what is shown in Table 11 to this subpart.
Table 9 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Retired Reserve Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Member (Self)
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Table 10 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Retired Reserve Members Ordered to Active Duty Greater Than 30 Days
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Member (Self)
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Table 11 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Non-Regular Service Retirement for Qualifying Ready Reserve Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Member (Self)
1
1
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Notes:
1. Yes, if age 60 or over, and:
a. Applied for or in receipt of retired pay in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1074. If in receipt of retired pay in accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 12731, after the date of the enactment of section 647 of Public Law 110-181, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008,” the member must be age 60 to qualify for CHC and DC.
b. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA, or
c. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
(c)
Dependents.
Dependents of retired uniformed services members entitled to retired pay, including TDRL and PDRL, non-regular Service retirees not yet age 60 not in receipt of retired pay; non-regular Service retirees entitled to retired pay in accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 12731 after the date of the enactment of section 647 of Public Law 110-181; and non-regular Service retirees, age 60 or over, in receipt of retired pay for non-regular service in accordance with 10 U.S.C. chapter 1223, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 12 to this subpart.
Table 12 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Dependents of Retired Uniformed Services Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Spouse
1
2
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
1
2
3
3
3.
Ward
1, 5
2, 5
5
5
5.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 6
2, 6
3, 6
3, 6
3, 6.
Foster Child
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 7
2, 7
8
8
8.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
2, 4
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, if the sponsor is:
a. Retired (as shown in Tables 7 and 8 to this subpart) and the dependent is not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA; or if entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84;
b. A National Guard or Reserve member on a period of active duty in excess of 30 days (as shown in Table 10 to this subpart). When the ordered to active duty period is greater than 30 days the eligibility for CHC and DC for the eligible dependents begins on the first day of the active duty period; or
c. A medically eligible non-regular Service Reserve Retiree, age 60 or over, as shown in Table 11 of this subpart.
2. Yes, if the sponsor is:
a. Retired (as shown in Tables 7 and 8 to this subpart);
b. A National Guard or Reserve member on a period of active duty in excess of 30 days (as shown in Table 10 to this subpart). When the ordered to active duty period is greater than 30 days the eligibility for CHC and DC for the eligible dependents begins on the first day of the active duty period; or
c. A medically eligible non-regular Service Reserve Retiree, age 60 or over, as seen in Table 11 to this subpart.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and:
a. Is dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Resides with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
6. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the member or former member.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the former member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member or former member, and is dependent on the member or former member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the retired member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the retired member for over 50 percent of child's support.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11182, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.14
Benefits for MOH recipients.
This section describes the benefits for MOH recipients and their dependents who are authorized pursuant to section 706 of Public Law 106-398, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001” and who are not otherwise entitled to military medical and dental care. Section 706 of Public Law 106-398 authorized MOH recipients not otherwise entitled to military medical and dental care and their dependents to be given care in the same manner that such care is provided to former uniformed service members who are entitled to military retired pay and the dependents of those former members. Eligibility for the benefits described in Table 13 to this subpart begins on the date of award of the MOH but no earlier than October 30, 2000.
Table 13 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for MOH Recipients and Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
1
2
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Spouse
1
2
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
1
2
3
3
3.
Ward
1, 5
2, 5
5
5
5.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 6
2, 6
3, 6
3, 6
3, 6.
Foster Child
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 7
2, 7
8
8
8.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
2, 4
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, if the sponsor is a MOH recipient and is not otherwise entitled to medical care as of or after October 30, 2000 pursuant to section 706 of Public Law 106-398 and:
a. Is not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA or
b. Is entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
2. Yes, if the sponsor is a MOH recipient and is not otherwise entitled to medical care as of or after October 30, 2000 pursuant to section 706 of Public Law 106-398.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and:
a. Is dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Resides with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
6. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the member or former member.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the former member for over 50 percent of the child's support or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member or former member, and is dependent on the member or former member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the MOH recipient for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the MOH recipient for over 50 percent of the child's support.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11182, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.15
Benefits for Disabled American Veterans (DAV).
This section describes the benefits for DAVs rated as 100 percent disabled or incapable of pursuing substantially gainful employment by the VA and their eligible dependents. Neither DAVs nor their eligible dependents receive CHC or DC benefits from the DoD based on their affiliation. Honorably discharged veterans rated by the VA as 100 percent disabled or incapable of pursuing substantially gainful employment from a service-connected injury or disease, and their dependents, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 14 to this subpart.
Table 14 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for 100 Percent DAVs and Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Spouse
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
No
No
1
1
1.
Ward
No
No
3
3
3.
Pre-adoptive Child
No
No
1, 4
1, 4
1, 4.
Foster Child
No
No
1
1
1.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
No
5
5
5.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent-by-Adoption
No
No
2
2
2.
Notes:
1. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
2. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
3. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and:
a. Is dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Resides with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
4. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the member or former member.
5. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity, and is dependent on the authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11183, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.16
Benefits for transitional health care members and dependents.
This section shows the benefits for THC members and their eligible dependents. THC (formerly the TAMP) was instituted in section 502 of Public Law 101-510, “Department of Defense Appropriations Bill Fiscal Year 1991” effective October 1, 1990. Section 706 of Public Law 108-375, “National Defense Authorization Act of for Fiscal Year 2005” made the THC program permanent and made the medical eligibility 180 days for all eligible uniformed services members. Section 651 of Public Law 110-181 extended 2 years' commissary and exchange benefits to THC members. Section 734 of Public Law 110-417, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009” extended THC benefits to uniformed service members separating from active duty who agree to become members of the SelRes of the Ready Reserve of a reserve component. Uniformed service members separated as uncharacterized entry-level separations do not qualify for THC.
Table 15 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for THC Members and Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
THC Member (Self)
1
1
2, 3
2, 3
2, 3.
Spouse
1
1
2, 3
2, 3
2, 3.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
1
1
2, 3, 4
2, 3, 4
2, 3, 4.
Ward
1, 6
1, 6
2, 3, 6
2, 3, 6
2, 3, 6.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 7
1, 7
2, 3, 4, 7
2, 3, 4, 7
2, 3, 4, 7.
Foster Child
No
No
2, 3, 4
2, 3, 4
2, 3, 4.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 8
1, 8
2, 3, 9
2, 3, 9
2, 3, 9.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent-by-Adoption
No
1, 5
2, 3, 5
2, 3, 5
2, 3, 5.
Notes:
1. Yes, medical entitlement for 180 days beginning on the date after the member separated from the qualifying active duty period. There is no exception based on entitlement to Medicare Part A. The THC eligible sponsor and eligible dependents receive the medical benefits as if they were active duty eligible dependents.
2. No, if the member:
a. Separated on or after January 1, 2001, but before October 1, 2007.
b. Separated in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1145(a)(2)(F).
c. Separated from active duty to join the SelRes or the Ready Reserve of a Reserve Component.
3. Yes, if the member was separated during the period beginning on October 1, 1990, through December 31, 2001, or after October 1, 2007. Entitlement shall be for 2 years, beginning on the date the member separated.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
5. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
6. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and:
a. Is dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Resides with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
7. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the member or former member.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member or former member, and is dependent on the authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
9. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11184, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.17
Benefits for surviving dependents.
This section describes the benefits for surviving dependents of active duty deceased uniformed services members, deceased National Guard and Reserve service members, deceased MOH recipients, and deceased 100 percent DAV. Surviving children who are adopted by a non-military member after the death of the sponsor remain eligible for all benefits as shown in this section.
(a)
Surviving dependents of active duty deceased members.
Surviving dependents of members who died while on active duty under orders that specified a period of more than 30 days or members who died while in a retired with pay status are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 16 to this subpart.
Table 16 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Surviving Dependents of Active Duty Deceased Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Widow or widower:
Unremarried
1
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, or Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
1
Yes
2
2
2.
Ward
1, 4
1, 4
4
4
4.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 5
1, 5
2, 5
2, 5
2, 5.
Foster Child
No
No
2
2
2.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 6
6
7
7
7.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
3
3
3
3.
Notes:
1. Yes, if the sponsor died on active duty (for dependents of National Guard or Reserve members or Retired Reserve members the period of active duty must be in excess of 30 days in order to qualify for the benefits in this table) and:
a. If claims are filed less than 3 years from the date of death, there is no Medicare exception for the widow. After 3 years from the date of death, the widow is eligible if,
(1) Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA.
(2) Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
b. Yes, for children regardless of the number of years from the date of death or entitlement to Medicare they are entitled.
2. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support at the time of the sponsor's death.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household at the time of the sponsor's death.
4. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the legal custody of the member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and was at the time of the sponsor's death:
a. Dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Residing with the member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
5. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the home of the member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the member.
6. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is or was at the time of the member's death dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member or former member and is or was at the time of the member's death dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(b)
Surviving dependents of deceased National Guard and Reserve members not on an active duty period greater than 30 days.
The surviving dependents of National Guard and Reserve Service members are eligible for the benefits shown in Table 17 to this subpart if:
(1) The National Guard or Reserve member died from an injury or illness incurred or aggravated while on active duty for a period of 30 days or less, on active duty for training, or on inactive duty training, or while traveling to or from the place at which the member was to perform, or performed, such active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1076 and 1086(c)(2) and if death occurred on or after October 1, 1985; or
(2) The National Guard or Reserve member died from an injury, illness, or disease incurred or aggravated while performing, or while traveling to or from performing active duty for a period of 30 days or less, or active duty for training, or inactive duty training, or while performing service on funeral honors in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1074a and if death occurred on or after November 15, 1986.
Table 17 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Surviving Dependents of Deceased National Guard and Reserve Members Not on Active Duty for a Period Greater Than 30 Days
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Widow or Widower:
Unremarried
1, 2
2
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
1, 2
2
3
3
3.
Ward
1, 2, 5
2, 5
5
5
5.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 2, 6
2, 6
3, 6
3, 6
3, 6.
Foster Child
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 2, 7
2, 7
8
8
8.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
2, 4
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA.
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
2. Yes, only if death occurred on or after 1 October 1985 in accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1076, or on or after November 15, 1986, in accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1074a.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support at the time of the sponsor's death.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household at the time of the sponsor's death.
5. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the legal custody of the member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months and was at the time of the sponsor's death:
a. Dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Residing with the member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
6. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the home of the member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is or was at the time of the member's death dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member and is or was at the time of the member's or former member's death dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(c)
Surviving dependents of deceased National Guard and Reserve members in receipt of their notice of eligibility (NOE), Retired Reserve members not yet age 60, and former members not in receipt of retired pay.
The surviving dependents of National Guard and Reserve members who have died before the age of 60 are eligible for the benefits shown in Table 18 to this subpart if the deceased sponsor was:
(1) A Reserve member who had earned 20 qualifying years for retirement and received their NOE for retired pay at age 60, but had not transferred to the Retired Reserve.
(2) A Retired Reserve member eligible for pay at age 60, not yet age 60.
(3) A former member who had met time-in-service requirements.
Table 18 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Surviving Dependents of National Guard and Reserve Members Who Have Died Before Age 60
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Widow or Widower:
Unremarried
1, 2
1
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged
1, 2
1
3
3
3.
Ward
1, 2, 5
1, 5
5
5
5.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 2, 6
1, 6
3, 6
3, 6
3, 6.
Foster Child
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 2, 7
1, 7
8
8
8.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
1, 4
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, on or after the date the member would have become age 60.
2. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA or
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support at the time of the sponsor's death.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household at the time of the sponsor's death.
5. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and was at the time of the sponsor's death:
a. Dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Residing with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
6. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is or was at the time of the member's or former member's death dependent on the former member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member or former member and is, or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, dependent on the member or former member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(d)
Surviving dependents of deceased National Guard and Reserve members who died in a non-reportable status.
The surviving dependents of National Guard and Reserve members are eligible for the benefits shown in Table 19 to this subpart if:
(1) The member's death was unrelated to the member's service.
(2) The member was not on active duty, active duty for training, or on inactive duty training, or while traveling to or from the place at which the member was to perform, or performed, such active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training.
(3) The member was not eligible for retired pay.
Table 19 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Surviving Dependents of National Guard and Reserve Members Who Died in a Non-Reportable Status
Widow or Widower:
Unremarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged, foster child
No
No
1
1
1.
Ward
No
No
2
2
2.
Pre-adoptive Child
No
No
1, 3
1, 3
1, 3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
No
4
4
4.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
No
5
5
5.
Notes:
1. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support at the time of the sponsor's death.
2. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the legal custody of the member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months and was at the time of the sponsor's death:
a. Dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Residing with the member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
3. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the home of the member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption.
4. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
5. Yes, if dependent on that sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support and residing in the sponsor's household at the time of the sponsor's death.
(e)
Surviving dependents of deceased uniformed services retirees or deceased MOH recipients.
The surviving dependents of deceased uniformed services retirees or deceased MOH recipients are eligible for the benefits shown in Table 20 to this subpart.
Table 20 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Surviving Dependents of Deceased Uniformed Services Retirees and Deceased MOH Recipients
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Widow or Widower:
Unremarried
1, 2
2, 4
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of member, illegitimate child of spouse
1, 2
2, 4
3
3
3.
Ward
1, 2, 6
2, 3, 6
6
6
6.
Pre-adoptive Child
1, 2, 7
2, 3, 7
3, 7
3, 7
3, 7.
Foster Child
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
1, 2, 8
2, 8
9
9
9.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent-by-Adoption
No
5
5
5
5.
Notes:
1. Yes, if the:
a. Deceased uniformed service member was a retired uniformed service member entitled to retired pay, including TDRL or PDRL, or a non-regular Service retiree, age 60 or over, in receipt of retired pay, and if the person is:
(1) Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA; or,
(2) Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
b. Deceased MOH recipient was not otherwise entitled to medical care as of, or after October 30, 2000 in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 106-398 and if the person is:
(1) Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA; or,
(2) Entitled to Medicare Part A, hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
2. No, if the deceased uniformed service member was a non-regular Service Retiree in accordance with the provision of 10 U.S.C. 12731 after the enactment of Public Law 110-181, sections 647 and 1106. The eligible surviving dependents will become eligible for CHC and DC on the anniversary of the 60th birthday of the deceased uniformed service member. Eligibility for CHC also requires that the person is:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA; or,
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support at the time of the sponsor's death.
4. Yes, if the deceased was a retired uniformed services member entitled to retired pay, including TDRL or PDRL, or a non-regular Service retiree, age 60 or over, in receipt of retired pay, or a deceased MOH recipient not otherwise entitled to medical care as of or after, October 30, 2000, or a deceased non-regular Service retiree entitled in accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 12731 after the enactment of Public Law 110-181, sections 647 and 1106 on the anniversary of the 60th birthday of the deceased uniformed Service member.
5. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support and residing in the sponsor's household at the time of the sponsor's death.
6. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and was at the time of the sponsor's death:
a. Dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Residing with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
7. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is or was at the time of the member's or former member's death dependent on the former member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a member or former member and is or was at the time of the member's or former member's death dependent on the member or former member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
9. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is, or was at the time of the member's death, dependent on the member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(f)
Surviving dependents of 100 percent DAVs.
Surviving dependents of honorably discharged veterans rated as 100 percent disabled or incapable of pursuing substantially gainful employment by the VA from a service-connected injury or disease at the time of the veteran's death are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 21 to this subpart.
Table 21 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Surviving Dependents of 100 Percent DAVs
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Widow or Widower (DoD Beneficiary):
Unremarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, or illegitimate child of male member whose paternity has been judicially determined or voluntarily acknowledged, foster child
No
No
1
1
1.
Ward
No
No
2
2
2.
Pre-adoptive Child
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
No
4
4
4.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent-by-Adoption
No
No
5
5
5.
Notes:
1. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support at the time of the sponsor's death.
2. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, was placed in the legal custody of the member or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months; and was at the time of the sponsor's death:
a. Dependent on the member for over 50 percent support.
b. Residing with the member or former member unless separated by the necessity of uniformed service or to receive institutional care as a result of a disability or incapacitation or under such other circumstances as the administering Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe.
3. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, and prior to the death of the member, the child had been placed in the home of the member or former member by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption.
4. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, dependent on the former member for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student, while a dependent of a member or former member and is, or was at the time of the member's or former member's death, dependent on the member or former member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
5. Yes, if dependent on that sponsor for over 50 percent of the parent's support and residing in the sponsor's household at the time of the sponsor's death.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11184, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.18
Benefits for abused dependents.
(a) Abused dependents of active duty uniformed services members entitled to retired pay based on 20 or more years of service who, on or after October, 23, 1992, while a member, have their eligibility to receive retired pay terminated as a result of misconduct involving the abuse of the spouse or dependent child pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1408(h), are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 22 to this subpart. For the purposes of these benefits the eligible spouse or child may not reside in the household of the sponsor. See § 161.19 for additional information on abused dependents under the 10/20/10 former spouse rule.
Table 22 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Abused Dependents of Retirement Eligible Uniformed Services Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Spouse
1, 2, 6
2, 6
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 18 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, pre-adoptive
1, 3
3
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, 18 Years and Over (If entitled above)
1, 4, 5
4, 5
7
7
7.
Notes:
1. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA.
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
2. Yes, if a court order provides for an annuity for the spouse.
3. Yes, if a member of the household where the abuse occurred.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of child's support at the time the abuse occurred.
5. Yes, if the child:
a. Is older than 18 years old and is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 18, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student.
6. The spouse must have been married to the uniformed service member for at least 10 years, the uniformed service member must have completed 20 creditable years for retired pay, and they must have been married at least 10 years during the 20 years of creditable service (see § 161.19). The uniformed services shall prescribe specific procedures to verify the eligibility of an applicant.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Is older than 18 years old but has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and was dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent the child's support at the time the abuse occurred; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and was dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support at the time the abuse occurred.
(b) Dependents of active duty uniformed service members (who have served for a continuous period greater than 30 days) not entitled to retired pay who have received a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, dismissal from a uniformed service as a result of a court martial conviction for an offense involving physical or emotional abuse of the spouse or child, or was administratively discharged as a result of such an offense, separated on or after November 30, 1993, are eligible for transitional privileges in accordance with DoD Instruction 1342.24, “Transitional Compensation for Abused Dependents” (available at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/134224p.pdf
). For the purposes of these benefits the eligible spouse or child may not reside in the household of the sponsor. A maximum of up to 36 months of medical benefits can be granted by the uniformed services to the transitional compensation dependent.
Table 23 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Abused Dependents of Non-Retirement Eligible Uniformed Services Members
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Spouse
1, 2
2
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, Under 18 Years
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, pre-adoptive
1, 2
2
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, 18 Years and Over (If entitled above)
1, 2, 3
2, 3
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA.
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
2. Yes, if
a. Residing with the member at the time of the dependent-abuse offense and not residing with the member while receiving transitional compensation for abused dependents.
b. Married to and residing with the member at the time of the dependent-abuse offense and while receiving transitional compensation for abused dependents.
3. Yes, if:
a. 18 years of age or older and incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before the age of 18 and who is (or was when a punitive or other adverse action was carried out on the member) dependent on the member for over one-half of the child's support; or
b. 18 years of age or older, but less than 23 years of age, is enrolled in a full-time course of study in an institution of higher learning approved by the Secretary of Defense and who is (or was when a punitive or other adverse action was carried out on the member) dependent on the member for over one-half of the child's support.
4. Yes, if receiving transitional compensation.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11188, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.19
Benefits for former spouses.
(a)
20/20/20 former spouses.
Unremarried former spouses of a uniformed services member or retired member, married to the member or retired member for a period of at least 20 years, during which period the member or retired member performed at least 20 years of service that is creditable in determining the member's or retired member's eligibility for retired or retainer pay, or equivalent pay pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1408 and 1072(2)(F), and the period of the marriage and the service overlapped by at least 20 years are eligible for benefits as shown in Tables 24 and 25 to this subpart. The benefit eligibility period begins on qualifying date of divorce from the uniformed services member.
(1)
20/20/20 former spouses of an active duty, regular retired, or a non-regular retired sponsor at age 60.
20/20/20 former spouses of an active duty, regular retired, or a non-regular retired sponsor at age 60 are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 24 to this subpart.
Table 24 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for 20/20/20 Former Spouses of Active Duty, Regular Retired, and Non-Regular Retired Members at Age 60
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Former Spouse:
Unremarried
1, 2
1
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Notes:
1. Yes, if the former spouse certifies in writing that the former spouse has no medical coverage under an employer-sponsored health plan.
2. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA.
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance with the exception of those individuals who qualify in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
(2)
20/20/20 former spouses of a National Guard, Reserve member, or Retired Reserve member under age 60.
(i) In the case of former spouses of National Guard, Reserve, or Retired Reserve members or former members who are entitled to
retired pay at age 60, but have not yet reached age 60, the former spouse is only entitled to commissary, MWR, and exchange benefits as shown in Table 25 to this subpart. When the Retired Reserve member or former member attains or would have attained, age 60, the former spouse will be entitled to benefits as shown in Table 24 to this subpart.
(ii) In the case of former spouses of National Guard members or Reserve members ordered to active duty, or Retired Reserve members under age 60 recalled to active duty, they continue to receive benefits as shown in Table 25 to this subpart if the orders are for a period of 30 days or less. If the National Guard member, Reserve member, or recalled Retired Reserve member is on active duty orders in excess of 30 days, the former spouse will receive benefits as shown in Table 24 to this subpart.
Table 25 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for 20/20/20 Former Spouses for Retired Reserve Under Age 60
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Former Spouse:
Unremarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
(b)
20/20/15 former spouses.
Unremarried former spouses described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, with the period of overlap of marriage and the member's creditable service at least 15 years, but less than 20 years, are not eligible for the commissary, MWR, or exchange benefits.
(1)
20/20/15 former spouses of an active duty, regular retired, or a non-regular retired sponsor at age 60.
20/20/15 former spouses of an active duty, regular retired, or a non-regular retired sponsor at age 60 are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 26 to this subpart.
Table 26 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for 20/20/15 Former Spouses of Active Duty, Regular Retired, and Non-Regular Retired at Age 60
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Former Spouse:
Unremarried
1, 2, 3
1, 3
No
No
No.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Notes:
1. Yes, if former spouse certifies in writing that the former spouse has no medical coverage under an employer-sponsored health plan.
2. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA; or
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
3. Yes, if the:
a. Final decree of divorce, dissolution, or annulment of the marriage was before April 1, 1985; or
b. Marriage ended on, or after, September 29, 1988, entitlements shall exist for 1 year, beginning on the date of the divorce, dissolution, or annulment pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1076 and 1072(2)(H).
(2)
20/20/15 former spouses of a Retired Reserve member under age 60.
(i) In the case of former spouses of Retired Reserve members or former members who are entitled to retired pay at age 60, but have not yet reached age 60, the former spouse has no entitlement prior to the Retired Reserve member or former member reaching age 60. The benefit eligible period is 1 year from the date of divorce. If any period of eligibility extends beyond the Retired Reserve or former member's 60th birthday then the former spouse will receive benefits as shown in Table 26 to this subpart for that period.
(ii) In the case of former spouses of Reserve members or Retired Reserve members under age 60 recalled to active duty on orders for a period of 30 days or less they are not entitled to any benefits as shown in Table 27 to
this subpart. If the Reserve member or recalled Retired Reserve member is on active duty orders in excess of 30 days, the former spouse will receive benefits as shown in Table 26 to this subpart if they are within 1 year from the date of divorce from the uniformed service member.
Table 27 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for 20/20/15 Former Spouses of a Retired Reserve Member Under Age 60
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Former Spouse:
Unremarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
No
No
No
No
No.
(c)
10/20/10 former spouses.
Unremarried former spouses of a member or retired member, married to the member or retired member for a period of at least 10 years to a member or retired member who performed at least 20 years of service that is creditable in determining the member's or retired member's eligibility for retired or retainer pay, when the period of overlap of marriage and the member's creditable service was at least 10 years and the former spouse is in receipt of an annuity as a result of the member being separated from the service due to misconduct involving dependent abuse pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1408(h), are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 28 to this subpart.
Table 28 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for 10/20/10 Former Spouses
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Former Spouse:
Unremarried
1, 2
1, 2
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Remarried
No
No
No
No
No.
Unmarried
1, 2
1, 2
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Notes:
1. Yes, if:
a. Not entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance through the SSA.
b. Entitled to Medicare Part A hospital insurance and enrolled in Medicare Part B medical insurance or qualified as an exception in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 111-84.
2. The spouse must have been married to the uniformed service member for at least 10 years, the uniformed service member must have completed 20 creditable years for retired pay, and they must have been married at least 10 years during the 20 years of creditable service (see § 161.18, paragraph (a)(1)). The uniformed services shall prescribe specific procedures to verify the eligibility of an applicant.
§ 161.20
Benefits for civilian personnel.
Civilian personnel may be eligible for certain benefits described in this section based on their affiliation with DoD, Service-specific guidelines, or other authorizing conditions. The definition of “civilian personnel” (e.g., civilian employee, DoD contractor, Red Cross employee) is specific to each benefit set described.
(a) Civilian personnel in the United States may be issued a DoD ID card as a condition of employment or assignment in accordance with subpart B of this part. Civilian personnel in the United States are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 29 to this subpart.
Table 29 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Civilian Personnel in the United States
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self:
DoD Civilian Employees, IPA Personnel
No
No
No
1
No.
Non-DoD Government Agency Civilian Personnel
No
No
No
2
No.
DoD Contractors
No
No
No
2
No.
Note:
1. Yes, but the benefit is not printed on the DoD ID card and will be facilitated in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10.
2. Yes, if working full-time on the installation in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10. Benefit is not printed on the DoD ID card and will be facilitated in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10.
(b) Civilian personnel residing on a military installation in the United States are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 30 to this subpart.
Table 30 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Civilian Personnel When Residing on a Military Installation in the United States
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self:
DoD Civilian Employees, IPA Personnel
No
No
No
1
2.
Notes:
1. Yes, but benefit is not printed on the DoD ID card and will be facilitated in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10.
2. Yes, but subject to purchase restrictions, in accordance with DoD Instruction 1330.21. Benefit is not printed on the DoD ID card and will be facilitated in accordance with DoD Instruction 1330.21.
(c) DoD civilian personnel stationed or employed outside the United States and outside U.S. Territories and Possessions, and their accompanying dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 31 to this subpart.
Table 31 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for DoD Civilian Personnel Stationed or Employed Outside the United States and Outside U.S. Territories and Possessions and Accompanying Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self:
DoD Civilian Employee, IPA Personnel
No
1
Yes
Yes
Yes.
DoD Contractor
No
1
2
Yes
3.
Spouse
No
1
4
Yes
4.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, Illegitimate child of employee, or Illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 5
5
5
5.
Ward
No
1, 6
6
6
6.
Pre-adoptive
No
1, 7
7
7
7.
Foster Child
No
No
5
5
5.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 8
9
9
9.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent-by-Adoption
No
1, 5
1, 5
5
5.
Notes:
1. Yes, on a space-available, fully reimbursable basis. Medical care at uniformed services facilities shall be rendered in accordance with Service instructions. Additional guidelines are contained in DoD Instruction 1100.22 and Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25.
2. Yes, if a U.S. citizen and on a fully-reimbursable basis in accordance with DoD Instruction 1330.17 (not a local hire).
3. Yes, if a U.S. citizen assigned overseas.
4. Yes, if a dependent of an authorized sponsor and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
6. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
7. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the sponsor by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the sponsor.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor and is, dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
9. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(d) Non-DoD Government agency civilian personnel stationed or employed outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions, and their dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 32 to this subpart.
Table 32 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Non-DoD Government Agency Civilian Personnel Stationed or Employed Outside the United States and Outside U.S. Territories and Possessions and Accompanying Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self:
Non-DoD Government Agency Civilian Personnel
No
1
2
Yes
2.
Spouse
No
1
3
Yes
3.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, Illegitimate child of employee, or Illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 4
4
4
4.
Ward
No
1, 5
5
5
5.
Pre-adoptive
No
1, 6
6
6
6.
Foster Child
No
No
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 7
8
8
8.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, Parent-by-Adoption
No
1, 4
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, on a space-available, fully reimbursable basis. Medical care at uniformed services facilities shall be rendered in accordance with Service instructions. Additional guidelines are contained in DoD Instruction 1100.22 and Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25.
2. Yes, in accordance with DoD Instruction 1330.17 and DoD Instruction 1330.21.
3. Yes, if a dependent of an authorized sponsor and residing in the sponsor's household.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the dependent's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
6. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the sponsor by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the sponsor and dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor and is, dependent on the member or former member for over 50 percent of the child's support.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(e) Civilian personnel stationed or employed in U.S. Territories and Possessions and their dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 33 to this subpart.
Table 33 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Civilian Personnel Stationed or Employed in U.S. Territories and Possessions and Accompanying Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self:
DoD Civilian employee, IPA personnel
No
1
2
Yes
2.
Non-DoD Government Agency Civilian Personnel; DoD contractor
No
1
No
3
No.
Spouse
No
1
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of employee or illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 5
5
5
5.
Ward
No
1, 6
6
6
6.
Pre-adoptive
No
1, 7
7
7
7.
Foster Child
No
No
5
5
5.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 8
9
9
9.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, Parent-by-Adoption
No
1, 5
No
5
5.
Notes:
1. Yes, on a space-available, fully reimbursable basis only if residing in a household on a military installation. Additional guidelines are contained in DoD Instruction 1100.22 and Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25.
2. Yes, in accordance with DoD Instruction 1330.17 and DoD Instruction 1330.21.
3. Yes, if working full-time on the installation in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10. Benefit will not be printed on the DoD ID card and will be facilitated in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10.
4. Yes, if a dependent of an authorized sponsor and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
6. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
7. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the sponsor by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the sponsor and dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
9. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(f) DoD OCONUS hires are foreign nationals in host countries who are employed by U.S. forces, consistent with any agreement with the host country as defined in Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. They are entered into DEERS for the purposes of issuing a CAC and are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 34 to this subpart.
Table 34 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for DoD OCONUS Hires
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
No
1
No.
Note:
1. Yes, for appropriated fund and NAF foreign national employees assigned and working directly for DoD installations overseas, if not prohibited by Status of Forces Agreements, other international agreements, or local laws, and the installation commander determines it is in the best interest of the command. Annual recertification of the employee authorization is required in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10. Benefit is not printed on the DoD ID card and will be facilitated in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10.
(g) Full-time paid personnel of the Red Cross assigned to duty with the uniformed services in the United States and residing on a military installation and their accompanying dependents, when residing in the same household are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 35 to this subpart.
Table 35 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Full-Time Paid Personnel of the Red Cross Assigned to Duty With the Uniformed Services in the United States and Residing on a Military Installation and Accompanying Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
No
Yes
1.
Spouse
No
No
No
Yes
1, 2.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, Illegitimate child of employee, illegitimate child of spouse, or foster child
No
No
No
3
1, 3.
Ward
No
No
No
4
1, 4.
Pre-adoptive
No
No
No
5
1, 5.
Foster Child
No
No
No
3
1, 3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
No
No
6
1, 6.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, Parent-by-Adoption
No
No
No
3
1, 3.
Notes:
1. Yes, but subject to purchase restrictions in accordance with DoDI 1330.21.
2. Yes, if a dependent of an authorized sponsor, and residing in the sponsor's household.
3. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
4. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the sponsor by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the sponsor.
6. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(h) Full-time paid personnel of the Red Cross assigned to duty with the uniformed services outside the United States and their accompanying dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 36 to this subpart.
Table 36 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Full-Time Paid Personnel of the Red Cross Assigned to Duty With the Uniformed Services Outside the United States and Accompanying Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
2
Yes
2.
Spouse
No
1
3
Yes
3.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, Illegitimate child of employee or illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 4
4
4
4.
Ward
No
1, 5
5
5
5.
Pre-adoptive
No
1, 6
6
6
6.
Foster Child
No
No
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 7
8
8
8.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent-by-Adoption
No
1, 4
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, on a space-available basis at rates specified in uniformed services instructions. Additional guidelines are contained in DoD Instruction 1100.22 and Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25.
2. Yes, if U.S. citizen assigned overseas.
3. Yes, if a dependent of an authorized sponsor and residing in the sponsor's household.
4. Yes, if a dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
6. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the sponsor by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the sponsor and dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
8. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(i) Full-time paid personnel of the United Service Organizations (USO) serving outside the United States and their accompanying dependents when residing in the same household are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 37 to this subpart.
Table 37 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Full-Time Paid Personnel of the USO and Accompanying Dependents Serving Outside the United States
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
2
Yes
2.
Spouse
No
1
3
Yes
3.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of employee, or illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 4
4
4
4.
Ward
No
No
5
5
5.
Foster child
No
No
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 5
7
7
7.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent-by-Adoption
No
1, 4
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, on a space-available, fully reimbursable basis. Additional guidelines are contained in DoD Instruction 1100.22 and Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25.
2. Yes, if U.S. citizens assigned overseas.
3. Yes, if a dependent of an authorized sponsor and residing in the sponsor's household.
4. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
6. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the member sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(j) Full-time paid personnel of the USS serving outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions, and their accompanying dependents, when residing in the same household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 38 to this subpart.
Table 38 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Full-Time Paid Personnel of the USS Serving Outside the United States and Outside U.S. Territories and Possessions and Accompanying Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
No
Yes
No.
Spouse
No
1
No
Yes
No.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of employee, or illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 2
No
2
No.
Ward
No
No
No
3
No.
Foster Child
No
No
No
2
No.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 4
No
5
No.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent-by-Adoption
No
1, 2
No
2
No.
Notes:
1. Yes, on a space-available, fully reimbursable basis. Additional guidelines are contained in DoD Instruction 1100.22 and Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25.
2. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
3. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
4. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
5. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(k) MSC civil service Marine personnel deployed on MSC-owned and operated vessels outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 39 to this subpart.
Table 39 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for MSC Personnel Deployed on MSC-Owned and Operated Vessels Outside the United States and Outside U.S. Territories and Possessions
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
No
Yes
No.
Note:
1. Yes, on a space-available, fully reimbursable basis.
(l) Ship's officers and members of the crews of NOAA vessels are eligible for benefits in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 3074 as shown in Table 40 to this subpart. Ship's officers are not commissioned officers, but civilian employees of NOAA.
Table 40 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Ship's Officers and Members of the Crews of NOAA Vessels (NOAA Wage Mariner Employees)
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Spouse
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, Illegitimate child of employee, Illegitimate child of spouse, or Foster Child
No
No
1
1
1.
Ward
No
No
2
2
2.
Pre-adoptive
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
No
4
4
4.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, Parent-by-Adoption
No
No
1
1
1.
Notes:
1. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the individual's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
2. Yes if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
3. Yes if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the sponsor by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the sponsor.
4. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(m) Officers and crews of vessels, lighthouse keepers, and depot keepers of the former Lighthouse Service are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 41 to this subpart.
Table 41 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Officers and Crews of Vessels, Lighthouse Keepers, and Depot Keepers of the Former Lighthouse Service
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
(n) Presidential appointees who have been confirmed by the Senate (PASs) are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 42 to this subpart.
Table 42 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Presidential Appointees
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
PAS
No
1
2
Yes
2.
Notes:
1. Designation for PASs and other designated civilian officials within the DoD and the Military Departments. This is a specific reimbursable care value at the interagency rate outside the National Capital Region.
2. Yes, if residing in quarters on DoD military installations.
(o) Contract surgeons overseas during the period of their contract are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 43 to this subpart.
Table 43 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Contract Surgeons Overseas
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
No
1
1.
Note:
1. Only during the period of their contract with the Surgeon General.
(p) State employees of the National Guard may be identified in DEERS for the purpose of issuing a CAC to access DoD networks. There are no benefits assigned and no dependent benefits are extended as shown in Table 44 to this subpart.
Table 44 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for State Guard Employees
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
No
No
No.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11189, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.21
Benefits for retired civilian personnel.
(a)
Retired DoD civilian employees.
Retired appropriated and non-appropriated fund employees of the DoD are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 45 to this subpart. The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness Memorandum, “Department of Defense Civilian Retiree Identification Cards,” authorized the issuance of a DoD ID card to this population.
Table 45 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Retired DoD Civilian Employees
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
No
1
No.
Note:
1. Yes, but benefit is not printed on the DoD ID card and will be facilitated in accordance with DoD Instruction 1015.10.
(b)
Retired NOAA Wage Mariner employees and their eligible dependents.
Retired NOAA Wage Mariners (including retired ship's noncommissioned officers and members of the crews of NOAA vessels and its predecessors), and their dependents are eligible for benefits in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 3074 as shown in Table 46 to this subpart. Surviving dependents of deceased retired NOAA wage mariners remain eligible for benefits in accordance with governing policies as shown in Table 46 to this subpart.
Table 46 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Retired NOAA Wage Mariner Employees and Their Eligible Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Spouse
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of record of female member, illegitimate child of male member, whose paternity has been judicially determined, or foster child
No
No
1
1
1.
Ward
No
No
2
2
2.
Pre-adoptive Child
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
No
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, if dependent on an authorized sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support and residing in the sponsor's household.
2. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor or former member as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
3. Yes, if, for determinations of dependency made on or after October 5, 1994, placed in the home of the sponsor by a placement agency (recognized by the Secretary of Defense) or by another source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement, in anticipation of the legal adoption by the sponsor.
4. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11193, Feb. 14, 2024]
§ 161.22
Benefits for foreign affiliates.
(a)
Sponsored NATO and PFP personnel in the United States.
Active duty officer and enlisted personnel of NATO and PFP countries serving in the United States under the sponsorship or invitation of the DoD or a Military Service and their accompanying dependents living in the sponsor's U.S. household are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 47 to this subpart.
Table 47 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Sponsored NATO and PFP Personnel and Accompanying Dependents in the United States
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
2
2
2.
Spouse
3
1
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, Illegitimate child of member, or Illegitimate child of spouse
3, 4
1, 4
4
4
4.
Ward
No
No
5
5
5.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
3, 6
1, 6
7
7
7.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
No
4
4
4.
Notes:
1. Yes, for outpatient care no charge and for inpatient care at full reimbursable rate.
2. Yes, if:
a. Under orders issued by a U.S. Military Service; or
b. Assigned military attaché duties in the United States and designated on reciprocal agreements with the Department of State.
3. Yes, for outpatient care only.
4. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States.
5. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if residing in the authorized sponsor's household.
6. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States and the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
7. Yes, if the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(b)
Sponsored non-NATO personnel in the United States.
Active duty officer and enlisted personnel of non-NATO countries serving in the United States under DoD or Service sponsorship or invitation and their dependents, living in the non-NATO personnel's U.S. household, are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 48 to this subpart.
Table 48 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Sponsored Non-NATO Personnel and Accompanying Dependents in the United States
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
2
2
2.
Spouse
No
1
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of member, or illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 4
3
3
3.
Ward
No
No
4
4
4.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 5
6
6
6.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
No
3
3
3.
Notes:
1. Yes, for outpatient care only on a reimbursable basis.
2. Yes, if under orders issued by a U.S. Military Service.
3. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States.
4. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if residing in the authorized sponsor's household.
5. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States and the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
6. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States and the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(c)
Non-sponsored NATO personnel in the United States.
Active duty officer and enlisted personnel of NATO countries who, in connection with their official NATO duties, are stationed in the United States but are not under DoD or Service sponsorship and their accompanying dependents living in the non-sponsored NATO personnel's U.S. household are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 49 to this subpart.
Table 49 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Non-Sponsored NATO and PFP Personnel in the United States and Accompanying Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
No
No
No.
Spouse
2
1
No
No
No.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of member, or illegitimate child of spouse
2, 3
1, 3
No
No
No.
Ward
No
No
No
No
No.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
2, 3, 4
1, 3, 4
No
No
No.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
No
No
No
No.
Notes:
1. Yes, for outpatient care no charge and for inpatient care at full reimbursable rate.
2. Yes, for outpatient care only.
3. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States.
4. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States and the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(d)
NATO and non-NATO personnel outside the United States.
Active duty officer and enlisted personnel of NATO and non-NATO countries serving outside the United States and outside their own country under DoD or Service sponsorship or invitation and their accompanying dependents living with the sponsor are eligible for benefits as shown in Table 50 to this subpart. These benefits may be extended to this category of personnel not under DoD or Service sponsorship or invitation when it is determined by the major overseas commander that the granting of such privileges is in the best interests of the United States and such personnel are connected with, or their activities are related to, the performance of functions of the Service establishment.
Table 50 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for NATO, PFP, and Non-NATO Personnel Outside the United States and Accompanying Dependents
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Spouse
No
1
Yes
Yes
Yes.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of member, or illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 2
2
2
2.
Ward
No
No
3
3
3.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 4
5
5
5.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
No
2
2
2.
Notes:
1. Yes, for outpatient care only on a reimbursable basis.
2. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor and dependent on over 50 percent support.
3. Yes, if, for determination of dependency made on or after July 1, 1994, placed in the legal custody of the sponsor as a result of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States) for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, and if dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support, and residing in the sponsor's household.
4. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor and the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
5. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States and the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
(e)
Korean Augmentation to the U.S. Army (KATUSA).
Military service is mandatory for all Republic of Korea (ROK) male citizens. Those male citizens who speak English often become KATUSA serving with the U.S. Army forces in the ROK. This arrangement is provided for in the status of forces agreement between the United States and ROK. The KATUSAs are identified in DEERS for the purpose of issuing CACs for access to the U.S. installations in the ROK. No other benefits are provided as shown in Table 51 to this subpart.
Table 51 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for KATUSA
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
No
No
No.
(f)
Foreign national civilians.
Civilian employees of a foreign government who are assigned a support role with the DoD or Military Services or attending school at one of the DoD or uniformed services advanced schools may be identified in DEERS for the purpose of issuing a CAC. The foreign national civilian must be sponsored by the DoD or a Military Service regardless of whether the foreign national civilian is from a NATO, PFP, or non-NATO country. There are no benefits assigned and no dependent benefits are extended as shown in Table 52 to this subpart.
Table 52 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Foreign National Civilians
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
No
No
No.
(g)
Foreign national contractors.
Contractor personnel, contracted to a foreign government, who are assigned a support role with the DoD or Military Services or as a representative of a foreign government at one of the DoD or uniformed services advanced schools may be identified in DEERS for the purpose of issuing a CAC for physical and logical access requirements. The foreign national contractor must be sponsored by the DoD or a Military Service regardless of whether the foreign national civilian is from a NATO, PFP, or a non-NATO country. There are no benefits assigned and no dependent benefits are extended as shown in Table 53 to this subpart.
Table 53 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Foreign National Contractors
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
No
No
No
No.
(h)
Personnel subject to a Reciprocal Health Care Agreement (RHCA) in the United States.
For countries that have bilateral RHCAs with the DoD, RHCAs provide that a limited number of foreign force members and their dependents in the United States may be provided inpatient medical care at MTFs on a space-available basis without cost (except for a subsistence charge, if it applies). Provision of such care is contingent on comparable care being made available to a comparable number of U.S. military personnel and their dependents in the foreign country. Benefits are provided as shown in Table 54 to this subpart.
Table 54 to Subpart C of Part 161—Benefits for Foreign Force Members and Eligible Dependents Residing in the United States Who Are Covered by an RHCA
CHC
DC
C
MWR
E
Self
No
1
No
No
No.
Spouse
No
1
No
No
No.
Children, Unmarried, Under 21 Years:
Legitimate, adopted, stepchild, illegitimate child of member, or illegitimate child of spouse
No
1, 2
No
No
No.
Ward
No
No
No
No
No.
Children, Unmarried, 21 Years and Over
No
1, 2, 3
No
No
No.
Parent, Parent-in-Law, Stepparent, or Parent by Adoption
No
No
No
No
No.
Notes:
1. As determined by the appropriate RHCA.
2. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States.
3. Yes, if residing in the household of the authorized sponsor in the United States, the child:
a. Has not attained the age of 23, is enrolled in a full-time course of study at an institution of higher learning approved by the administering Secretary, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support; or
b. Is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before age 21, or occurred before the age of 23 while a full-time student while a dependent of a sponsor, and is dependent on the sponsor for over 50 percent of the child's support.
[81 FR 74879, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11193, Feb. 14, 2024]

# Subpart D—DoD Identification (ID) Cards: Eligibility Documentation Required for Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) Enrollment, Record Management, and ID Card Issuance

# Source:
81 FR 74904, Oct. 27, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 161.23
Procedures.
(a)
Eligibility documentation
—(1)
Basic requirements.
(i) ID card applicants must provide documentation as initial verification of eligibility for benefits or as proof of relationship to the sponsor. The sponsor is the prime beneficiary who derives eligibility based on individual status rather than dependence upon or relationship to another person, in accordance with § 161.7(a). When possible, DEERS records will be established and updated by authoritative data feeds.
(ii) An individual's DEERS record is established through the in-person presentation of identity documentation and, in some cases, eligibility documentation. Documentation verifying an ID card applicant's identity is always required in accordance with § 161.7(d)(1). Eligibility documentation may also be required to update a DEERS record to reflect a change in benefits or status.
(A) Identity and eligibility documentation is reviewed for authenticity by a RAPIDS verifying official (VO) and incorporated into the individual's DEERS record as necessary.
(B) The sponsor or DoD beneficiary must provide documentation to establish or terminate the relationship to a dependent within 30 days of the change.
(C) The VO ensures that the DD Form 1172-2 is signed by the sponsor.
(
1
) If the sponsor refuses to sign or is physically unable to sign the application, the VO verifies that the dependency between the sponsor and dependent exists and includes reasons why the sponsor is not able to or will not sign the application on the DD Form 1172-2. The VO then signs in the sponsor signature block and in the verifier's block.
(
2
) If the sponsor is deceased, the DoD beneficiary signs on the beneficiary's own behalf or on behalf of the surviving dependent.
(D) A VO may request additional documentation if there is any question of the authenticity of those presented.
(iii) Eligible individuals presenting eligibility documentation not listed in this subpart must have the responsible uniformed service Judge Advocate General or local Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) review and verify the documentation. A written Judge Advocate General or SJA opinion may need to be submitted at ID card issuance, verifying the documentation's use for DEERS enrollment.
(2)
Documentation standards
—(i)
Certified documentation.
All documentation must be an original or certified document.
(ii)
Foreign documentation.
Additional requirements are applied toward the verification of foreign eligibility documentation submitted to support enrollment of a dependent, including:
(A) A full English language translation, which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and the translator's certification of competency to translate from the foreign language into English, in accordance with 8 CFR 103.2(b)(3). Translation must be provided by a translator other than the individual presenting the document.
(B) A written Judge Advocate General or local SJA opinion confirming use of the eligibility documentation, if the uniformed service member is stationed overseas.
(C) Documentation that attests to the genuineness of the signature and seal, or the position of the foreign official who executed, issued, or certified the foreign documentation being presented to substantiate the dependency relationship to the sponsor.
(
1
) An accompanying original
apostille
(
i.e.,
certification) from a higher-level authority in the foreign country of issuance, for eligibility documents from countries that have adopted the Hague Convention Abolishing the Requirement of Legalisation for Foreign Public Documents, October 5,
1961 (copies may be obtained from the Internet at
https://www.hcch.net/en/instruments/conventions/full-text/?cid=41
). Sponsors should contact their SJA for information on how to obtain an
apostille
from a member nation; or
(
2
) An accompanying original certificate of authentication by a U.S. Consular Officer in the foreign country of issuance, for eligibility documents from all other foreign nations. Sponsors should contact their SJA for information on how to request issuance of certificate(s) of authentication from a U.S. Consular official.
(b)
Documentation for dependents
—(1)
Overview.
This paragraph (b) describes eligibility documentation required for eligible dependents of qualifying sponsors, including current, former, and retired uniformed service members, civilian employees, and other eligible individuals in accordance with subpart C of this part. Dependents who are eligible for benefits in accordance with subpart C of this part must provide eligibility documentation that establishes the dependent's relationship to the sponsor and verifies eligibility, as shown in Tables 1 through 12 to this subpart.
(i) The uniformed services restrict cross-servicing for verification of the DD Form 1172-2 and eligibility documentation to the responsible uniformed service for certain categories of dependents, in accordance with § 161.7(e)(1).
(ii) Service-specific requirements and processes are addressed in Air Force Instruction 36-3026, “Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Eligible Family Members, and Other Eligible Personnel” (available at:
http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a1/publication/afi36-3026v1_ip/afi_36-3026_ip.pdf
).
(2)
Spouse.
A sponsor's spouse must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 1 to this subpart.
Table 1 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Spouse
Status
Eligibility documentation
Spouse
Marriage certificate.
Common Law Spouse
SJA opinion (Note 1) and Common law marriage certificate (Note 2) or Court order (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A written SJA opinion that a common law marriage is recognized in the relevant State or U.S. jurisdiction.
2. A common law marriage certificate certified by the State.
3. An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that establishes a common law marriage.
(3)
Child, unmarried, under the age of 21.
A sponsor's dependent child, who is unmarried and under the age of 21, must have eligibility verified as shown in Tables 2 through 7 to this subpart. A child under the age of 21, who marries and subsequently divorces, may present a divorce decree and have eligibility reinstated, if the other requirements for a dependent child are met.
(i)
Legitimate child.
A sponsor's legitimate child must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 2 to this subpart.
Table 2 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Legitimate Child
Status
Eligibility documentation
Legitimate Child
Birth certificate (Note 1).
Legitimate Child Conceived Posthumously
Birth certificate (Note 1) and Director, DoDHRA memorandum (Note 2).
Notes:
1. A certificate of live birth or an FS-240, “Consular Report of Birth Abroad,” may be used in lieu of a birth certificate.
2. A memorandum signed by the Director, DoDHRA, establishing the eligibility for a child conceived of artificial insemination after the sponsor's death. The deceased sponsor's responsible uniformed service project office must submit all eligibility determination requests to DoDHRA, including documentation that:
a. Verifies the sponsor's intent to start a family, usually provided by the lab or clinic that assisted the couple with the in vitro process.
b. Provides the date of the sponsor's death.
c. Provides the date of birth or expected date of birth of the child.
(ii)
Pre-adoptive or adopted child.
A sponsor's pre-adoptive or adopted child must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 3 to this subpart.
Table 3 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Pre-Adoptive or Adopted Child
Status
Eligibility documentation
Pre-Adoptive Child
Birth certificate (Note 1) and Placement agreement (Note 2) or Court order (Note 2) or Document authorized by State or local law (Notes 2, 3).
Adopted Child
Birth certificate (Note 1) and Adoption decree (Note 4) or Court order (Note 4).
Notes:
1. A certificate of live birth or an FS-240 may be used in lieu of a birth certificate. When a placement agreement or an order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) establishes the child's date of birth, it may also be used in lieu of a birth certificate.
2. The placement agreement, order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession), or other appropriate document from any other source authorized by State or local law to provide adoption placement must include the intent to adopt.
3. An appropriate document from any other source authorized by State or local law with written approval from the responsible uniformed service Judge Advocate General or local SJA.
4. An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that establishes legal adoption of the child by the sponsor.
(iii)
Stepchild.
A sponsor's stepchild must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 4 to this subpart.
Table 4 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Stepchild
Status
Eligibility documentation
Stepchild
Birth certificate (Note 1) and Sponsor's marriage certificate (Note 2).
Note:
1. A certificate of live birth or an FS-240 may be used in lieu of a birth certificate. When a placement agreement or an order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) establishes the child's date of birth, it may also be used in lieu of a birth certificate.
2. A marriage certificate that establishes the relationship between the child's parent and the sponsor.
(iv)
Illegitimate child of record.
A male sponsor's illegitimate child of record must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 5 to this subpart.
Table 5 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Male Sponsor's Illegitimate Child of Record
Status
Eligibility documentation
Illegitimate child of record whose paternity has been judicially determined
Birth certificate (Note 1) and Court document (Note 2) or Consent order of paternity (Note 3).
Illegitimate child of record whose paternity has not been judicially determined
Birth certificate (Note 1) and SJA opinion (Note 4) or Voluntary acknowledgment of paternity (Note 5).
Notes:
1. A certificate of live birth or an FS-240 may be used in lieu of a birth certificate. When a placement agreement or an order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) establishes the child's date of birth, it may also be used in lieu of a birth certificate.
2. An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that establishes paternity.
3. A consent order of paternity, recognized by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession). An affidavit of paternity, recognized by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession), may be used in lieu of a consent order of paternity.
4. A written SJA opinion, if the member is stationed in a foreign country.
5. A voluntary acknowledgement of paternity signed by both parents and filed with the State.
(v)
Ward.
A sponsor's ward must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 6 to this subpart. The sponsor must certify on the DD Form 1172-2 that the sponsor is providing more than 50 percent of the dependent's support and that the ward resides
in the sponsor's household in order to issue an ID card.
Table 6 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Ward
Status
Eligibility documentation
Ward
Birth certificate (Note 1) and Financial dependency determination (Note 2) and Placement agreement (Note 3) or Court document (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A certificate of live birth or an FS-240 may be used in lieu of a birth certificate. When a placement agreement or an order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) establishes the child's date of birth, it may also be used in lieu of a birth certificate.
2. A financial dependency determination from the responsible service's Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS), or the service equivalent pay office, acknowledging that the sponsor is providing more than 50 percent of the dependent's support, or was at the time of the sponsor's death.
3. A placement agreement or an order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that establishes legal custody of the child by the sponsor for no less than 12 consecutive months.
(vi)
Foster child.
A sponsor's foster child must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 7 to this subpart.
Table 7 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Foster Child
Status
Eligibility documentation
Foster Child
Birth certificate (Note 1) and Placement agreement (Note 2) or Court document (Note 2).
Notes:
1. A certificate of live birth or an FS-240 may be used in lieu of a birth certificate. When a placement agreement or an order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) establishes the child's date of birth, it may also be used in lieu of a birth certificate.
2. A placement agreement or an order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that establishes the child's relationship to the sponsor.
(4)
Child, unmarried, over the age of 21.
A sponsor's dependent child, who is unmarried and over the age of 21, must have eligibility verified as shown in Tables 8 and 9 to this subpart.
(i)
Full-time student.
A sponsor's child who is between the ages of 21 and 23 and enrolled as a full-time student at an institution of higher learning must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 8 to this subpart.
Table 8 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Full-Time Student
Status
Eligibility documentation
Full-Time Student
Dependent documentation (Note 1) and Letter from school registrar (Note 2) and Sponsor's certification of 50 percent support (Note 3).
Notes:
1. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor as specified in Tables 2 through 7 in this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
2. A letter from the school registrar that establishes the child as a full-time student.
3. Sponsor's certification on the DD Form 1172-2 that he or she is providing more than 50 percent of the dependent's support.
(ii)
Incapacitated child.
A sponsor must follow the Service-specific process for initial determination of an incapacitated dependent child. The incapacitated dependent child must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 9 to this subpart.
Table 9 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for an Incapacitated Child
Status
Eligibility documentation
Incapacitated Child
Dependent documentation (Note 1) and Medical sufficiency statement (Note 2) and Financial dependency determination (Note 3).
Notes:
1. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor as specified in Tables 2 through 7 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
2. A medical sufficiency statement issued by a physician in support of the military treatment facility or authorized TRICARE service provider, stating incapacitation, and dated within 90 days of application, as required by the sponsoring component. If applicable, the physician's statement must reflect that the incapacitation occurred after the 21st birthday but before the 23rd birthday, while the dependent was a full-time student.
3. A financial dependency determination from the responsible Service's DFAS, or the Service equivalent pay office, acknowledging that the sponsor is providing more than 50 percent of the dependent's support, or was at the time of the sponsor's death.
(5)
Parent.
A sponsor's dependent parent, parent-in-law, stepparent, or parent-by-adoption, must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 10 to this subpart.
Table 10 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Parent
Status
Eligibility documentation
Parent
Financial dependency determination (Note 1) and Birth certificate (Notes 2) and Marriage certificate (Note 3) or Adoption decree (Note 4).
Notes:
1. A financial dependency determination from the responsible Service's DFAS, or the Service equivalent pay office, acknowledging that the sponsor is providing more than 50 percent of the dependent's support, or was at the time of the sponsor's death.
2. A birth certificate establishing parental relationship to the sponsor, or the sponsor's spouse.
3. A marriage certificate establishing a relationship to the sponsor's parent, or the sponsor's spouse's parent.
4. An adoption decree establishing legal adoption of the sponsor, or the sponsor's spouse, by the parent, or parent-in-law.
(c)
Documentation for surviving dependents.
This paragraph (c) describes eligibility documentation required for surviving dependents of deceased uniformed service members who are eligible for benefits in accordance with subpart C of this part. Surviving dependents must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 11 to this subpart. For ID card issuance, the unremarried widow or widower must certify on the DD Form 1172-2 that the widow or widower has not remarried.
Table 11 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Surviving Dependent
Status
Eligibility documentation
Widow or Widower:
Unremarried
Marriage certificate to sponsor (Note 1) and Death certificate of sponsor or DD Form 1300, “Report of Casualty,” (for sponsor only).
Unmarried
Marriage certificate to sponsor (Note 1) and Death certificate of sponsor or DD Form 1300, “Report of Casualty,” (for sponsor only) and Marriage certificate from subsequent marriage (Note 1) and Divorce decree from subsequent marriage (Note 2) or Death certificate from subsequent marriage.
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A common law marriage certificate, a court order, or a written SJA opinion that a common law marriage is recognized by the relevant State or U.S. jurisdiction is also accepted.
2. A dissolution decree or annulment decree is also accepted.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(d)
Documentation for abused dependents
—(1)
Overview.
This paragraph (d) describes eligibility documentation required for abused dependents of uniformed service members who are eligible for benefits in accordance with subpart C of this part.
(i) For the purposes of this paragraph (d), dependent children are limited to the sponsor's legitimate children,
adopted children, and stepchildren, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1408(h). Their eligibility ends at age 18 unless otherwise eligible as full-time students (aged 18-23) or based on an incapacitation that existed before age 18 or occurred between the ages of 18 and 23 while a full-time student.
(ii) Abused dependents are required to provide documentation that verifies eligibility as shown in Tables 12 and 13 to this subpart to the responsible uniformed service project office.
(2)
Abused dependent of a retirement-eligible service member.
An abused dependent of a retirement eligible service member must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 12 to this subpart.
Table 12 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for an Abused Dependent of a Retirement-Eligible Service Member
Status
Eligibility documentation
Dependent
DD Form 2698 “Application for Transitional Compensation” (Note 1) and Letter from DFAS (Note 2) and Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. DD Form 2698, approved by the responsible uniformed service.
2. A letter from DFAS, approving request to receive a portion of retired pay, or other approval from the service equivalent pay office.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor as specified in Tables 1 through 4 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(3)
Abused dependent of a non-retirement-eligible service member.
An abused dependent of a non-retirement-eligible Service member must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 13 to this subpart.
Table 13 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for an Abused Dependent of a Non-Retirement Eligible Service Member
Status
Eligibility documentation
Dependent
DD Form 2698 (Note 1) and Dependent documentation (Note 2).
Notes:
1. DD Form 2698, approved by the responsible uniformed service.
2. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor as specified in Tables 1 through 4 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(e)
Documentation for former spouses.
This paragraph (e) describes eligibility documentation required for 20/20/20, 20/20/15, and 10/20/10 former spouses of current, former, and retired uniformed service members, who are eligible for benefits in accordance with subpart C of this part. For ID card issuance, the unremarried former spouse must certify on the DD Form 1172-2 that the former spouse has not remarried. 10/20/10 former spouses, also known as abused former spouses of retirement-eligible Service members who are eligible under 10 U.S.C. 4108(h), should refer to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section for more information. Eligible former spouses, as identified in subpart C of this part, must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 14 to this subpart.
Table 14 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Former Spouse
Status
Eligibility documentation
Former Spouse:
Unremarried
Marriage certificate to sponsor (Note 1) and Divorce decree from sponsor (Note 2) and Statement of service (Note 3).
Unmarried
Marriage certificate to sponsor (Note 1) and Divorce decree from sponsor (Note 2) and Statement of service (Note 3) and Marriage certificate from subsequent marriage (Note 1) and Divorce decree from subsequent marriage (Note 2) or Death certificate from subsequent marriage.
Notes:
1. A common law marriage certificate, a court order, or a written SJA opinion that a common law marriage is recognized in the relevant State or U.S. jurisdiction, is also accepted.
2. A dissolution decree or annulment decree is also accepted.
3. Statement of service that establishes the uniformed service member's service. A complete set of DD Form 214, “Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty,” or dates of inclusive service for servicing personnel may be used in lieu of the statement of service.
(f)
Documentation for uniformed service members
—(1)
Overview.
This paragraph (f) describes eligibility documentation required for current, former, and retired uniformed service members, Medal of Honor (MOH) recipients, 100 percent disabled American veterans (DAVs), and their eligible dependents, in accordance with subpart C of this part.
(i) MOH recipients must have their DEERS records updated manually, as indicated in this paragraph.
(ii) Current, former, and retired members identified in this paragraph (f) should have eligibility updated in DEERS by an authoritative feed; however, under certain circumstances described in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section, a Service member may have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Tables 15 through 21 to this subpart.
(iii) All other uniformed service members should have their DEERS records updated by authoritative data feeds.
(2)
Active duty member.
An active duty member should have eligibility updated in DEERS by an authoritative feed; however, under certain circumstances described in the notes of the table, an active duty member may have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 15 to this subpart.
Table 15 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for an Active Duty Member and Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
Active Duty Member
Military orders (Note 1).
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 2).
Notes:
1. Military orders may be used at the service project officer level when DEERS verification is not available.
2. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(3)
National Guard and Reserve member.
A National Guard or Reserve member who is activated to active duty should have eligibility updated in DEERS by an authoritative feed; however, under certain circumstances described in the notes of the table, a National Guard or Reserve member may have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 16 to this subpart.
Table 16 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a National Guard or Reserve Member and Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
National Guard or Reserve Member
Military orders (Note 1).
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 2).
Notes:
1. Military orders may be used at the service project officer level when DEERS verification is not available.
2. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(4)
Retired reserve member.
A retired reserve member should have eligibility updated in DEERS by an authoritative feed; however, a retired reserve member may also have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 17 to this subpart.
Table 17 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Retired Reserve Member and Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
Retired Reserve Member
Retired pay orders (Note 1) or DD Form 214 (Note 2).
Retired Reserve Member ordered to active duty
DD Form 214 (Note 2) or Military order (Note 3) or Commissioning oath (Note 3) or Enlistment contract (Note 3).
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 4).
Notes:
1. Retired pay orders, establishing the uniformed service member's eligibility for retired pay at age 60.
2. A DD Form 214 that establishes the uniformed service member's service can be used when DEERS verification is not available. A statement of service or dates of inclusive service for servicing personnel may be used in lieu of the DD Form 214.
3. Documentation establishing the uniformed service member being ordered to active duty for greater than 30 days.
4. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(5)
Retired member.
A retired member should have eligibility updated in DEERS by an authoritative feed; however, a retired member may also have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 18 to this subpart. Retired members include voluntary retired members, permanent disability retired list members, and temporary disability retired list members.
Table 18 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a Retired Member and Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
Retired Member
Retirement orders or Correction of military record (Note 1) or DD Form 214 (Note 2).
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A correction of military record can be used at the service project officer level when DEERS verification is not available.
2. A DD Form 214 that establishes the uniformed service member's service can be used when DEERS verification is not available. A statement of service or dates of inclusive service for servicing personnel may be used in lieu of the DD Form 214.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(6)
Transitional Health Care (THC) member.
A THC member should have eligibility updated in DEERS by an authoritative feed; however, a THC member may also have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 19 to this subpart to correct an ineligible condition.
Table 19 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a THC Member and Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
THC Member
DD Form 214 (Note 1).
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 2).
Notes:
1. DD Form 214, reflecting the appropriate separation program designator code for Transition Assistance (TA)-180 eligibility. Separation orders, reflecting the appropriate separation program designator code for TA-180 eligibility may be used in lieu of the DD Form 214.
2. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(7)
MOH recipient.
A MOH recipient should have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 20 to this subpart. DoDHRA will update all MOH DEERS records.
Table 20 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a MOH Recipient and Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
MOH Recipient
Confirmation of MOH status (Note 1).
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 2).
Notes:
1. Confirmation of MOH status by DoDHRA.
2. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, must establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(8)
100 percent DAV.
An honorably discharged veteran who has been rated as 100 percent disabled or incapable of pursuing substantially gainful employment by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) should have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 21 to this subpart.
Table 21 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for a 100 Percent DAV and Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
100 Percent DAV
VA rating determination letter (Note 1) and DD Form 214 (Note 2).
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. VA rating determination letter that establishes eligibility as 100 percent disabled or incapable of pursuing substantially gainful employment.
2. A DD Form 214 that characterizes the uniformed service member's discharge as honorable.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(g)
Documentation for civilian personnel
—(1)
Overview.
This paragraph (g) describes eligibility documentation required for civilian personnel, and their dependents, when they are eligible for benefits in accordance with subpart C of this part. Civilian personnel, as the sponsors, and their dependents, qualify for different benefits based on the sponsor's status in accordance with subpart C of this part. The definition of “civilian personnel” (e.g., civilian employee, DoD contractor, Red Cross employee) is specific to each eligibility set described. Civilian employees include both appropriated fund and nonappropriated fund employees, in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(2)
Civilian personnel
—(i)
Civilian personnel residing on a military installation in the United States.
Civilian personnel residing on a military installation in the United States, and accompanying dependents, must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 22 to this subpart.
Table 22 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for Civilian Personnel Residing on a Military Installation in the United States and Accompanying Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
Civilian: DoD civilian employee, DoD contractor, Intergovernmental Personnel Act personnel, non-DoD government agency civilian personnel under DoD sponsorship
Travel authorization (Note 1).
Dependent
Travel authorization (Note 2) and Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component authorizing the sponsor to reside on a military installation.
2. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component authorizing eligible dependents to accompany the sponsor.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 12 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(ii)
Civilian personnel outside the United States.
Civilian personnel stationed outside the United States, and accompanying dependents, must have
eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 23 to this subpart.
Table 23 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for Civilian Personnel Stationed Outside the United States and Accompanying Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
Civilian: DoD civilian employee, DoD contractor, Intergovernmental Personnel Act personnel, non-DoD government agency civilian personnel under DoD sponsorship, DoD contractor authorized to accompany the Armed Forces (CAAF)
Travel authorization (Note 1) and SPOT LOA (Note 2, 3).
Dependent
Dependent documentation (Note 4) and Travel authorization (Note 5) or SPOT LOA (Note 5).
Notes:
1. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component, indicating an assignment outside the United States.
2. A SPOT LOA that designates the contractor as CAAF, if a CAAF in accordance with DoD Instruction 3020.41, “Operational Contract Support (OCS)” (available at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/302041p.pdf
).
3. A SPOT LOA, if applicable in accordance with Combatant Command guidance.
4. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
5. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component or SPOT LOA authorizing eligible dependents to accompany the sponsor.
(3)
Red Cross personnel.
Uniformed and non-uniformed full-time paid personnel of the Red Cross assigned to duty with the uniformed services and either residing on a military installation in the United States, or stationed outside the United States, and accompanying dependents, must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 24 to this subpart.
Table 24 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for Full-Time Paid Personnel of the Red Cross and Accompanying Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
Red Cross Employee
Travel authorization (Note 1).
Dependent
Travel authorization (Note 2) and Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component authorizing the sponsor to reside on a military installation in the United States, or indicating an assignment outside the United States.
2. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component authorizing eligible dependents to accompany the sponsor.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(4)
United Service Organizations (USO) personnel.
Full-time paid personnel of the USO serving outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions and accompanying dependents, must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 25 to this subpart.
Table 25 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for Full-Time Paid Personnel of the USO and Accompanying Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
USO Employee
Travel authorization (Note 1).
Dependent
Travel authorization (Note 2) and Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component.
2. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component authorizing eligible dependents to accompany the sponsor.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(5)
United Seaman's Service (USS) personnel.
USS personnel serving outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions, and accompanying dependents, must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 26 to this subpart.
Table 26 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for USS Personnel and Accompanying Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
USS Employee (Self)
Travel authorization (Note 1).
Dependent
Travel authorization (Note 2) and Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component.
2. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component authorizing eligible dependents to accompany the sponsor.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(6)
Military Sealift Command (MSC) personnel.
MSC personnel on MSC-owned and operated vessels outside the United States and outside U.S. territories and possessions, and accompanying dependents, must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 27 to this subpart.
Table 27 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for MSC Personnel Deployed on MSC-Owned and Operated Vessels and Accompanying Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
MSC Employee
Travel authorization (Note 1).
Dependent
Travel authorization (Note 2) and Dependent documentation (Note 3).
Notes:
1. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component.
2. A travel authorization produced by the sponsoring DoD Component authorizing eligible dependents to accompany the sponsor.
3. Eligible dependents, as identified in subpart C of this part, are required to establish their relationship to the sponsor, as specified in Tables 1 through 10 of this subpart, if the relationship has not previously been established.
(h)
Documentation for foreign affiliates.
This paragraph (h) describes eligibility documentation required for foreign affiliates, including foreign national military, civilian, and contractor personnel, and their dependents, when they are eligible for benefits in accordance with subpart C of this part. A foreign affiliate serving in the United States or outside the United States under the sponsorship or invitation of the DoD or a Military Service, and accompanying dependents, or a foreign affiliate serving in the United States in connection with their official duties but who are not under the sponsorship or invitation of the DoD or a Military Service, and accompanying dependents, must have eligibility verified by documentation shown in Table 28 to this subpart.
Table 28 to Subpart D of Part 161—Eligibility Documentation Required for Sponsored Foreign Affiliates in the United States and Accompanying Dependents
Status
Eligibility documentation
Foreign Affiliate
ITO (Note 1) or Foreign Visit Request (Note 1).
Dependent
ITO (Note 2) or Foreign Visit Request (Note 2).
Notes:
1. An ITO, Foreign Visit Request, or other document establishing the foreign affiliate's sponsorship to travel to the United States.
2. An ITO, Foreign Visit Request, or letter produced by the sponsoring DoD Component authorizing eligible dependents to accompany the sponsor.
(i)
Documentation required to terminate eligibility in DEERS
—(1)
Overview.
This paragraph (i) describes documentation required to terminate eligibility in
DEERS. When terminating eligibility in DEERS, documentation is required in accordance with Tables 29 through 31 to this subpart.
(2)
Spouse.
A sponsor's spouse, former spouse, or surviving widow or widower, who does not qualify as a DoD beneficiary and no longer meets the eligibility requirements identified in subpart C of this part, must have eligibility terminated in DEERS by documentation shown in Table 29 to this subpart.
Table 29 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Terminate Eligibility of a Spouse in DEERS
Status
Eligibility documentation
Spouse
Divorce decree (Note 1) or Death certificate.
Former Spouse
Marriage certificate from subsequent marriage (Note 2).
Widow/Widower
Marriage certificate from subsequent marriage (Note 2).
Notes:
1. A dissolution decree or annulment decree is also accepted.
2. A common law marriage certificate, a court order, or a written SJA opinion that a common law marriage is recognized in the relevant State or U.S. jurisdiction, is also accepted.
(3)
Child.
A sponsor's child, who no longer meets the eligibility requirements identified in subpart C of this part, must have eligibility terminated in DEERS by documentation shown in Table 30 to this subpart.
Table 30 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Terminate Eligibility of a Child in DEERS
Status
Eligibility documentation
Child, Under Age 21:
Legitimate, Adopted, Pre-Adoptive, Illegitimate Child
Marriage certificate (Note 1) or Adoption decree (Note 2) or Court order (Note 3) or Death certificate (Note 4).
Stepchild
Marriage certificate (Note 1) or Adoption decree (Note 2) or Court order (Note 3) or Death certificate (Note 4) or Divorce decree (Notes 5, 6).
Ward, Foster Child
Marriage certificate (Note 1) or Adoption decree (Note 2) or Court order (Note 3) or Death certificate (Note 4) or Dependency certification (Note 7).
Child, Over Age 21:
Full-Time Student
Marriage certificate (Note 1) or Death certificate (Note 4) or Change in financial status (Note 7) or Letter from school registrar (Note 8).
Temporary or Permanent Incapacitated Child
Marriage certificate (Note 1) or Death certificate (Note 4) or Change in financial status (Note 7) or Medical sufficiency statement (Note 9).
Notes:
1. A marriage certificate, if the child marries.
2. An adoption decree, if the child is adopted and the relationship to the sponsor is severed. This does not apply to surviving children adopted by a non-military member after the death of the sponsor in accordance with 32 CFR 199.3(f)(3).
3. An order or appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession), affirming either the voluntary relinquishment or involuntary termination of parental rights and placing the child into custody of another guardian, or emancipating the child. In cases of involuntary termination, the Service project office should consult with the local SJA and confirm that the sponsor was properly notified of the involuntary termination proceedings and was given the opportunity to defend the sponsor's rights.
4. A death certificate, if the child dies.
5. A final divorce decree, if the sponsor and the child's parent divorce in accordance with 32 CFR 199.3(f)(3).
6. A dissolution decree or annulment decree is also accepted.
7. Sponsor certification on the DD Form 1172-2 that the sponsor is not providing more than 50 percent or that the child does not resides in the household.
8. A letter from the school registrar that establishes the child is no longer a full-time student.
9. A medical sufficiency statement issued by a physician in support of the military treatment facility or authorized TRICARE service provider, establishing the end of an incapacitation.
(4)
Parent.
A sponsor's parent, including a parent-in-law, stepparent, or parent-by-adoption, who no longer meets the eligibility requirements, as identified in subpart C of this part, must have eligibility terminated in DEERS by documentation shown in Table 31 to this subpart.
Table 31 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Terminate Eligibility of a Parent in DEERS
Status
Eligibility documentation
Parent
Change in financial status (Note 1) or Divorce decree (Note 2) or Marriage certificate (Note 3) or Death certificate (Note 4) or.
Notes:
1. The sponsor, or the dependent parent, verifies that the sponsor is not providing more than 50 percent financial support for the parent.
2. The relationship between the sponsor and the parent-in-law is terminated as a result of a divorce. A dissolution decree or annulment decree is also accepted.
3. The parent marries.
4. The parent dies.
(j)
Documentation required to set data display restrictions in DEERS.
This paragraph (j) describes documentation required to request data display restrictions in DEERS. In certain circumstances, data display restrictions may be applied in DEERS to mask data elements from being viewed by affiliated family members by documentation shown in Table 32 to this subpart. Reasons and circumstances for restricting data may include, but are not limited to, personal preference and cases of abuse. Restricted data may include, but is not limited to, contact information such as an address, phone number, or email address.
Table 32 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Set Data Display Restrictions
Status
Documentation
Sponsor or Dependent
DEERS Support Office request (Note 1) or Project Office request (Note 2) or Protective order (Note 3) or Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act request (Note 4).
Notes:
1. A request to the DEERS Support Office asking for contact information to be restricted.
2. A request to the Service DEERS/RAPIDS Project Office asking for the contact information to be restricted.
3. An order or other appropriate document from a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or U.S. territory or possession) that establishes a protective order.
4. A request to restrict health information.
(k) Documentation required to change a gender marker in DEERS. This paragraph (k) describes documentation required to request a change to a retiree's, a dependent's, or a contractor employee's gender marker in DEERS. Requests to change a gender marker require submission of documentation listed in Table 33 to this subpart. All requests by retirees, dependents, and contractor employees to change gender markers must be submitted by the sponsor's responsible uniformed service project office or sponsoring agency to DoDHRA.
(1) For changes to a retiree's gender marker, after DoDHRA confirms the change in DEERS, the uniformed service project office must follow existing Service procedures to send an update to DFAS, or the Service equivalent pay office, to allow DFAS, or the Service equivalent pay office, to update its system with the retiree's gender identity.
(2) These documentation requirements do not apply nor can they be used to change the gender marker of a military Service member.
(3) Government civilian employees should consult their servicing human resources or civilian personnel office for guidance concerning changing their gender markers in DEERS.
(4) If a name change is required in conjunction with a change of gender marker, see paragraph (m) of this section.
(5) To change a gender marker in DEERS to correct an administrative error, see paragraph (n) of this section.
Table 33 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Change a Gender Marker in DEERS
Status
Documentation
Retiree, Dependent, or Contractor (Note 1)
Written statement signed by the individual indicating their preferred gender identity.
Note:
1. Includes other ID card eligible populations managed by the Trusted Associate Sponsorship System for which DEERS is the authoritative source.
(l)
Documentation required to change a Social Security Number (SSN) in DEERS.
This paragraph (l) describes documentation required to change an SSN in DEERS. An individual's SSN should be changed in DEERS with documentation shown in Table 34 to this subpart.
(1) To change an SSN in a DEERS record that was established by an authoritative feed (e.g., uniformed service member records, DoD civilian personnel records), the sponsor will need to consult the personnel office that established the authoritative feed.
(2) To change an SSN in a DEERS record that was manually established (e.g., dependent records), the sponsor will need to go to a RAPIDS site for assistance.
Table 34 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Change an SSN in DEERS
Status
Documentation
Sponsor
Social security cards (Note 1) and Social Security Administration letter (Note 2).
Dependent
Social security cards (Note 1) and Social Security Administration letter (Note 2).
Notes:
1. Social security cards issued by the Social Security Administration, establishing the old and new SSNs.
2. A letter from the Social Security Administration, explaining that a new SSN has been issued and stating that the individual will no longer use the old SSN.
(m)
Documentation required to change a name in DEERS.
This paragraph (m) describes documentation required to change a name in DEERS. Name changes based on a marriage, divorce, or death, are made at the time of enrollment or ID card issuance. An individual's name should be changed in DEERS with documentation shown in Table 35 to this subpart.
(1) To change a name in a DEERS record that was established by an authoritative feed (e.g., uniformed service member records, DoD civilian personnel records), the sponsor will need to first consult the personnel office that established the authoritative feed. If an immediate change is required, the sponsor may visit a RAPIDS site with the applicable documentation identified in Table 35 to this subpart.
(2) To change a name in a DEERS record that was manually established (e.g., dependent records), the sponsor will need to visit a RAPIDS site with the applicable documentation identified in Table 35 to this subpart.
Table 35 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Change a Name in DEERS
Status
Documentation
Sponsor
Court order or Marriage certificate (Note 1) or Divorce decree (Note 2) or Death decree (Note 3) or Social security cards (Note 4).
Spouse
Court order or Marriage certificate (Note 1) or Divorce decree (Note 2) or Death certificate (Note 3) or Social security cards (Note 4).
Child
Court order or Social security cards (Note 4).
Notes:
1. A marriage certificate to change an individual's last name to match the spouse's last name or to hyphenate the last name.
2. A divorce decree to establish the individual's last name as the individual's last name before being married. A dissolution decree or annulment decree is also accepted. Additional documentation confirming name before being married may be required.
3. A death certificate to establish the individual's last name as the individual's last name before being married. Additional documentation confirming name before being married may be required.
4. Social security cards issued by the Social Security Administration, establishing the individual's old full name and new full name.
(n)
Documentation required to correct an administrative error in DEERS
—(1)
Overview.
This paragraph (n) describes documentation required to correct administrative errors in DEERS.
(i) To correct an administrative error in a DEERS record that was established and updated by authoritative feed, the sponsor should consult the personnel office that owns the authoritative feed.
(ii) To correct an administrative error in a DEERS record that was established and updated manually, the sponsor, on behalf of a dependent, should seek the support of the uniformed service's DEERS Support Office Field Support personnel with documentation shown in Tables 36 through 38 of this subpart.
(2)
Name or date of birth.
An individual's name or date of birth, when incorrectly entered in DEERS, should be corrected with the documentation shown in Table 36 to this subpart.
Table 36 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Modify a Name or Date of Birth in DEERS To Correct an Administrative Error
Status
Documentation
Sponsor or Dependent
Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) Publication (Pub) 201-3, “Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors,” Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements primary and secondary identity source documentation (Note).
Note:
Documentation from the FIPS Pub 201-3, PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements primary and secondary identity source document lists that establishes name or date of birth.
(3)
Gender.
An individual's gender marker, when incorrectly entered in DEERS, should be corrected with the documentation shown in Table 37 to this subpart.
Table 37 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Modify a Gender Marker in DEERS To Correct an Administrative Error
Status
Documentation
Sponsor or Dependent
Birth certificate and FIPS Pub 201-3 “Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors,” Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements primary and secondary identity source documentation (Note).
Note:
Documentation from the FIPS Pub 201-3, PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements primary and secondary identity source document lists that establishes gender.
(4)
SSN.
An individual's SSN, when incorrectly entered in DEERS, should be corrected with the documentation shown in Table 38 to this subpart.
Table 38 to Subpart D of Part 161—Documentation Required To Modify an SSN in DEERS To Correct an Administrative Error
Status
Documentation
Sponsor or Dependent
Documentation establishing SSN (Note).
Note:
Government-issued documentation establishing SSN, including but not limited to, social security card, Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service Form W-2, “Wage and Tax Statement,” and Form SSA-1099, “Social Security Benefit Statement.”
[81 FR 74904, Oct. 27, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 11196, Feb. 14, 2024; 89 FR 18543, Mar. 14, 2024]

# SUBCHAPTER G—DEFENSE CONTRACTING
Pt. 168a

# PART 168a—NATIONAL DEFENSE SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS
Sec.
168a.1
Purpose.
168a.2
Applicability.
168a.3
Definition.
168a.4
Policy and procedures.
168a.5
Responsibilities.

# Authority:
10 U.S.C. 2191.

# Source:
55 FR 29844, July 23, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 168a.1
Purpose.
This part:
(a) Establishes guidelines for the award of National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate (NDSEG) Fellowships, as required by 10 U.S.C. 2191.
(b) Authorizes, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2191 and consistent with DoD 5025.1, the publication of a regulation which will be codified at 32 CFR part 168b.
§ 168a.2
Applicability.
This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, and the Defense Agencies (hereafter referred to collectively as “DoD Components”).
§ 168a.3
Definition.
Sponsoring Agency.
A DoD Component or an activity that is designated to award NDSEG fellowships under § 168a.5(a).
§ 168a.4
Policy and procedures.
(a) Sponsoring Agencies, in awarding NDSEG fellowships, shall award:
(1) Solely to U.S. citizens and nationals who agree to pursue graduate degrees in science, engineering, or other fields of study that are designated, in accordance with § 168a.5(b)(2), to be of priority interest to the Department of Defense.
(2) Through a nationwide competition in which all appropriate actions have been taken to encourage applications from members of groups (including minorities, women, and disabled persons) that historically have been underrepresented in science and engineering.
(3) Without regard to the geographic region in which the applicant lives or the geographic region in which the applicant intends to pursue an advanced degree.
(b) The criteria for award of NDSEG fellowships shall be:
(1) The applicant's academic ability relative to other persons applying in the applicant's proposed field of study.
(2) The priority of the applicant's proposed field of study to the Department of Defense.
§ 168a.5
Responsibilities.
(a) The Deputy Director, Defense Research and Engineering (Research and Advanced Technology) [DDDR
E(R
AT)], shall:
(1) Administer this part and issue DoD guidance, as needed, for NDSEG fellowships.
(2) Designate those DoD Components that will award NDSEG fellowships, consistent with relevant statutory authority.
(3) Issue a regulation in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2191 and DoD 5025.1-M.
(b) The Heads of Sponsoring Agencies, or their designees, in coordination with a representative of the Deputy Director, Defense Research and Engineering (Research and Advanced Technology) [DDDR
E(R
AT)], shall:
(1) Oversee the nationwide competition to select NDSEG fellowship recipients.
(2) Determine those science, engineering and other fields of priority interest to the Department of Defense in which NDSEG fellowships are to be awarded.
(3) Prepare a regulation, in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2191, that prescribes.
(i) Procedures for selecting NDSEG fellows.
(ii) The basis for determining the amounts of NDSEG fellowships.
(iii) The maximum NDSEG fellowship amount that may be awarded to an individual during an academic year.
Pt. 170

# PART 170—CYBERSECURITY MATURITY MODEL CERTIFICATION (CMMC) PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Information
Sec.
170.1
Purpose.
170.2
Incorporation by reference.
170.3
Applicability.
170.4
Acronyms and definitions.
170.5
Policy.

# Subpart B—Government Roles and Responsibilities
170.6
CMMC PMO.
170.7
DCMA DIBCAC.

# Subpart C—CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem
170.8
Accreditation Body.
170.9
CMMC Third-Party Assessment Organizations (C3PAOs).
170.10
CMMC Assessor and Instructor Certification Organization (CAICO).
170.11
CMMC Certified Assessor (CCA).
170.12
CMMC Instructor.
170.13
CMMC Certified Professional (CCP).

# Subpart D—Key Elements of the CMMC Program
170.14
CMMC Model.
170.15
CMMC Level 1 self-assessment and affirmation requirements.
170.16
CMMC Level 2 self-assessment and affirmation requirements.
170.17
CMMC Level 2 certification assessment and affirmation requirements.
170.18
CMMC Level 3 certification assessment and affirmation requirements.
170.19
CMMC scoping.
170.20
Standards acceptance.
170.21
Plan of Action and Milestones requirements.
170.22
Affirmation.
170.23
Application to subcontractors.
170.24
CMMC Scoring Methodology.
Appendix A to Part 170—Guidance

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; Sec. 1648, Pub. L. 116-92, 133 Stat. 1198.

# Source:
89 FR 83214, Oct. 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Information.
§ 170.1
Purpose.
(a) This part describes the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC) Program of the Department of Defense (DoD) and establishes requirements for defense contractors and subcontractors to implement prescribed cybersecurity standards for safeguarding Federal Contract Information (FCI) and Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI). This part (the CMMC Program) also establishes requirements for conducting an assessment of compliance with the applicable prescribed cybersecurity standard for contractor information systems that: process, store, or transmit FCI or CUI; provide security protections for systems which process, store, or transmit CUI; or are not logically or physically isolated from systems which process, store, or transmit CUI.
(b) The CMMC Program provides DoD with a viable means of conducting the volume of assessments necessary to verify contractor and subcontractor implementation of required cybersecurity requirements.
(c) The CMMC Program is designed to ensure defense contractors are properly safeguarding FCI and CUI that is processed, stored, or transmitted on defense contractor information systems. FCI and CUI must be protected to meet evolving threats and safeguard nonpublic, unclassified information that supports and enables the warfighter. The CMMC Program provides a consistent methodology to assess a defense contractor's implementation of required cybersecurity requirements. The CMMC Program utilizes the security standards set forth in the 48 CFR 52.204-21; National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) 800-171,
Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems,
Revision 2, February 2020 (includes updates as of January 28, 2021) (NIST SP 800-171 R2); and selected requirements from the NIST SP 800-172,
Enhanced Security Requirements for Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information: A Supplement to NIST Special Publication 800-171,
February 2021 (NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021), as applicable (see table 1 to § 170.14(c)(4) for requirements, see § 170.2 for availability of NIST publications).
(d) The CMMC Program balances the need to safeguard FCI and CUI and the requirement to share information appropriately with defense contractors in order to develop capabilities for the DoD. The CMMC Program is designed
to ensure implementation of cybersecurity practices for defense contractors and to provide DoD with increased assurance that FCI and CUI information will be adequately safeguarded when residing on or transiting contractor information systems.
(e) The CMMC Program creates no right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable by law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
§ 170.2
Incorporation by reference.
Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Material approved for incorporation by reference (IBR) is available for inspection at the Department of Defense (DoD) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact DoD online:
https://DoDcio.defense.gov/CMMC/
; email:
osd.mc-alex.DoD-cio.mbx.cmmc-rule@mail.mil
; or phone: (202) 770-9100. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations
or email:
fr.inspection@nara.gov
. The material may be obtained from the following sources:
(a) National Institute of Standards and Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg, MD 20899; phone: (301) 975-8443; website:
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/
.
(1) FIPS PUB 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems, March 2006 (FIPS PUB 200 Mar2006); IBR approved for § 170.4(b).
(2) FIPS PUB 201-3, Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors, January 2022 (FIPS PUB 201-3 Jan2022); IBR approved for § 170.4(b).
(3) SP 800-37, Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy, Revision 2, December 2018 (NIST SP 800-37 R2); IBR approved for § 170.4(b).
(4) SP 800-39, Managing Information Security Risk: Organization, Mission, and Information System View, March 2011 (NIST SP 800-39 Mar2011); IBR approved for § 170.4(b).
(5) SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations, Revision 5, September 2020 (includes updates as of December 10, 2020) (NIST SP 800-53 R5); IBR approved for § 170.4(b).
(6) SP 800-82r3, Guide to Operational Technology (OT) Security, September 2023 (NIST SP 800-82r3); IBR approved for § 170.4(b).
(7) SP 800-115, Technical Guide to Information Security Testing and Assessment, September 2008 (NIST SP 800-115 Sept2008); IBR approved for § 170.4(b).
(8) SP 800-160, Volume 2, Developing Cyber-Resilient Systems: A Systems Security Engineering Approach, Revision 1, December 2021 (NIST SP 800-160 V2R1); IBR approved for § 170.4(b).
(9) SP 800-171, Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations, Revision 2, February 2020 (includes updates as of January 28, 2021), (NIST SP 800-171 R2); IBR approved for §§ 170.4(b) and 170.14(a) through (c).
(10) SP 800-171A, Assessing Security Requirements for Controlled Unclassified Information, June 2018 (NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018); IBR approved for §§ 170.11(a), 170.14(d), 170.15(c), 170.16(c), 170.17(c), and 170.18(c).
(11) SP 800-172, Enhanced Security Requirements for Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information: A Supplement to NIST Special Publication 800-171, February 2021 (NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021); IBR approved for §§ 170.4(b), 170.5(a), and 170.14(a) and (c).
(12) SP 800-172A, Assessing Enhanced Security Requirements for Controlled Unclassified Information, March 2022 (NIST SP 800-172A Mar2022); IBR approved for §§ 170.4(b), 170.14(d), and 170.18(c).
(b) International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Chemin de Blandonnet 8, CP 401—1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland; phone: +41 22 749 01 11; website:
www.iso.org/popular-standards.html
.
(1) ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E), Conformity assessment—Requirements for accreditation bodies accrediting conformity
assessment bodies, Second edition, November 2017 (ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E)); IBR approved for §§ 170.8(b)(3), 170.9(b)(13), and 170.10(b)(4).
(2) ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E), Conformity assessment—Requirement for the operation of various types of bodies performing inspection, Second edition, March 1, 2012 (ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E)); IBR approved for §§ 170.8(a), (b)(1), (b)(3) and 170.9(b)(2) and (b)(13).
(3) ISO/IEC 17024:2012(E), Conformity assessment—General requirements for bodies operating certification of persons, second edition, July 1, 2012 (ISO/IEC 17024:2012(E)); IBR approved for §§ 170.8(b)(2) and 170.10(a) and (b)(4), (7), and (8).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
b

# ):
The ISO/IEC standards incorporated by reference in this part may be viewed at no cost in “read only” format at
https://ibr.ansi.org
.
§ 170.3
Applicability.
(a) The requirements of this part apply to:
(1) All DoD contract and subcontract awardees that will process, store, or transmit information, in performance of the DoD contract, that meets the standards for FCI or CUI on contractor information systems; and,
(2) Private-sector businesses or other entities comprising the CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem, as specified in subpart C of this part.
(b) The requirements of this part do not apply to Federal information systems operated by contractors or subcontractors on behalf of the Government.
(c) CMMC Program requirements apply to all DoD solicitations and contracts pursuant to which a defense contractor or subcontractor will process, store, or transmit FCI or CUI on unclassified contractor information systems, including those for the acquisition of commercial items (except those exclusively for COTS items) valued at greater than the micro-purchase threshold except under the following circumstances:
(1) The procurement occurs during Implementation Phase 1, 2, or 3 as described in paragraph (e) of this section, in which case CMMC Program requirements apply in accordance with the requirements for the relevant phase-in period; or
(2) Application of CMMC Program requirements to a procurement or class of procurements may be waived in advance of the solicitation at the discretion of DoD in accordance with all applicable policies, procedures, and approval requirements.
(d) DoD Program Managers or requiring activities are responsible for selecting the CMMC Status that will apply for a particular procurement or contract based upon the type of information, FCI or CUI, that will be processed on, stored on, or transmitted through a contractor information system. Application of the CMMC Status for subcontractors will be determined in accordance with § 170.23.
(e) DoD is utilizing a phased approach for the inclusion of CMMC Program requirements in solicitations and contracts. Implementation of CMMC Program requirements will occur over four (4) phases:
(1)
Phase 1.
Begins on the effective date of the complementary 48 CFR part 204 CMMC Acquisition final rule. DoD intends to include the requirement for CMMC Statuses of Level 1 (Self) or Level 2 (Self) for all applicable DoD solicitations and contracts as a condition of contract award. DoD may, at its discretion, include the requirement for CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self) or Level 2 (Self) for applicable DoD solicitations and contracts as a condition to exercise an option period on a contract awarded prior to the effective date. DoD may also, at its discretion, include the requirement for CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) in place of the Level 2 (Self) CMMC Status for applicable DoD solicitations and contracts.
(2)
Phase 2.
Begins one calendar year following the start date of Phase 1. In addition to Phase 1 requirements, DoD intends to include the requirement for CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) for applicable DoD solicitations and contracts as a condition of contract award. DoD may, at its discretion, delay the inclusion of requirement for CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) to an option period instead of as a condition of contract award. DoD may also, at its discretion, include the requirement for CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC) for
applicable DoD solicitations and contracts.
(3)
Phase 3.
Begins one calendar year following the start date of Phase 2. In addition to Phase 1 and 2 requirements, DoD intends to include the requirement for CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) for all applicable DoD solicitations and contracts as a condition of contract award and as a condition to exercise an option period on a contract awarded after the effective date. DoD intends to include the requirement for CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC) for all applicable DoD solicitations and contracts as a condition of contract award. DoD may, at its discretion, delay the inclusion of requirement for CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC) to an option period instead of as a condition of contract award.
(4)
Phase 4, full implementation.
Begins one calendar year following the start date of Phase 3. DoD will include CMMC Program requirements in all applicable DoD solicitations and contracts including option periods on contracts awarded prior to the beginning of Phase 4.
§ 170.4
Acronyms and definitions.
(a)
Acronyms.
Unless otherwise noted, the following acronyms and their terms are for the purposes of this part.
AC—Access Control
APT—Advanced Persistent Threat
AT—Awareness and Training
C3PAO—CMMC Third-Party Assessment Organization
CA—Security Assessment
CAICO—CMMC Assessors and Instructors Certification Organization
CAGE—Commercial and Government Entity
CCA—CMMC-Certified Assessor
CCI—CMMC-Certified Instructor
CCP—CMMC-Certified Professional
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CM—Configuration Management
CMMC—Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification
CMMC PMO—CMMC Program Management Office
CNC—Computerized Numerical Control
CoPC—Code of Professional Conduct
CSP—Cloud Service Provider
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
DD—Represents any two-character CMMC Domain acronym
DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
DIB—Defense Industrial Base
DIBCAC—DCMA's Defense Industrial Base Cybersecurity Assessment Center
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
eMASS—Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service
ESP—External Service Provider
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FCI—Federal Contract Information
FedRAMP—Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program
GFE—Government Furnished Equipment
IA—Identification and Authentication
ICS—Industrial Control System
IIoT—Industrial Internet of Things
IoT—Internet of Things
IR—Incident Response
IS—Information System
IEC—International Electrotechnical Commission
ISO/IEC—International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission
IT—Information Technology
L#—CMMC Level Number
MA—Maintenance
MP—Media Protection
MSSP—Managed Security Service Provider
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
NAICS—North American Industry Classification System
NIST—National Institute of Standards and Technology
N/A—Not Applicable
ODP—Organization-Defined Parameter
OSA—Organization Seeking Assessment
OSC—Organization Seeking Certification
OT—Operational Technology
PI—Provisional Instructor
PIEE—Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
PLC—Programmable Logic Controller
POA
M—Plan of Action and Milestones
PRA—Paperwork Reduction Act
RM—Risk Management
SAM—System of Award Management
SC—System and Communications Protection
SCADA—Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SI—System and Information Integrity
SIEM—Security Information and Event Management
SP—Special Publication
SPD—Security Protection Data
SPRS—Supplier Performance Risk System
SSP—System Security Plan
(b)
Definitions.
Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part.
Access Control (AC)
means the process of granting or denying specific requests to obtain and use information and related information processing services; and/or entry to specific physical facilities (
e.g.,
Federal buildings, military establishments, or border crossing entrances), as defined in FIPS PUB 201-3 Jan2002 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Accreditation
means a status pursuant to which a CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem member (person or organization), having met all criteria for the specific role they perform including required ISO/IEC accreditations, may act in that role as set forth in § 170.8 for the Accreditation Body and § 170.9 for C3PAOs. (CMMC-custom term)
Accreditation Body
is defined in § 170.8 and means the one organization DoD contracts with to be responsible for authorizing and accrediting members of the CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem, as required. The Accreditation Body must be approved by DoD. At any given point in time, there will be only one Accreditation Body for the DoD CMMC Program. (CMMC-custom term)
Advanced Persistent Threat (APT)
means an adversary that possesses sophisticated levels of expertise and significant resources that allow it to create opportunities to achieve its objectives by using multiple attack vectors (
e.g.,
cyber, physical, and deception). These objectives typically include establishing and extending footholds within the information technology infrastructure of the targeted organizations for purposes of exfiltrating information, undermining or impeding critical aspects of a mission, program, or organization; or positioning itself to carry out these objectives in the future. The advanced persistent threat pursues its objectives repeatedly over an extended period-of-time, adapts to defenders' efforts to resist it, and is determined to maintain the level of interaction needed to execute its objectives, as is defined in NIST SP 800-39 Mar2011 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Affirming Official
means the senior level representative from within each Organization Seeking Assessment (OSA) who is responsible for ensuring the OSA's compliance with the CMMC Program requirements and has the authority to affirm the OSA's continuing compliance with the specified security requirements for their respective organizations. (CMMC-custom term)
Assessment
means the testing or evaluation of security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for an information system or organization, as defined in §§ 170.15 through 170.18. (CMMC-custom term)
(i)
Level 1 self-assessment
is the term for the activity performed by an OSA to evaluate its own information system when seeking a CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self).
(ii)
Level 2 self-assessment
is the term for the activity performed by an OSA to evaluate its own information system when seeking a CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self).
(iii)
Level 2 certification assessment
is the term for the activity performed by a C3PAO to evaluate the information system of an OSC when seeking a CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO).
(iv)
Level 3 certification assessment
is the term for the activity performed by the DCMA DIBCAC to evaluate the information system of an OSC when seeking a CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC).
(v)
POA
M closeout self-assessment
is the term for the activity performed by an OSA to evaluate only the NOT MET
requirements that were identified with POA
M during the initial assessment, when seeking a CMMC Status of Final Level 2 (Self).
(vi)
POA
M closeout certification assessment
is the term for the activity performed by a C3PAO or DCMA DIBCAC to evaluate only the NOT MET requirements that were identified with POA
M during the initial assessment, when seeking a CMMC Status of Final Level 2 (C3PAO) or Final Level 3 (DIBCAC) respectively.
Assessment Findings Report
means the final written assessment results by the third-party or government assessment team. The Assessment Findings Report is submitted to the OSC and to the DoD via CMMC eMASS. (CMMC-custom term)
Assessment objective
means a set of determination statements that, taken together, expresses the desired outcome for the assessment of a security requirement. Successful implementation of the corresponding CMMC security requirement requires meeting all applicable assessment objectives defined in NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) or NIST SP 800-172A Mar2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2). (CMMC-custom term)
Assessment Team
means participants in the Level 2 certification assessment (CMMC Certified Assessors and CMMC Certified Professionals) or the Level 3 certification assessment (DCMA DIBCAC assessors). This does not include the OSC participants preparing for or participating in the assessment. (CMMC-custom term)
Asset
means an item of value to stakeholders. An asset may be tangible (
e.g.,
a physical item such as hardware, firmware, computing platform, network device, or other technology component) or intangible (
e.g.,
humans, data, information, software, capability, function, service, trademark, copyright, patent, intellectual property, image, or reputation). The value of an asset is determined by stakeholders in consideration of loss concerns across the entire system life cycle. Such concerns include but are not limited to business or mission concerns, as defined in NIST SP 800-160 V2R1 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Asset Categories
means a grouping of assets that process, store or transmit information of similar designation, or provide security protection to those assets. (CMMC-custom term)
Authentication
is defined in FIPS PUB 200 Mar2006 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Authorized
means an interim status during which a CMMC Ecosystem member (person or organization), having met all criteria for the specific role they perform other than the required ISO/IEC accreditations, may act in that role for a specified time as set forth in § 170.8 for the Accreditation Body and § 170.9 for C3PAOs. (CMMC-custom term)
Capability
means a combination of mutually reinforcing controls implemented by technical means, physical means, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security or privacy purpose, as defined in NIST SP 800-37 R2 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Cloud Service Provider (CSP)
means an external company that provides cloud services based on cloud computing. Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (
e.g.,
networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. This definition is based on the definition for cloud computing in NIST SP 800-145 Sept2011. (CMMC-custom term)
CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem
means the people and organizations described in subpart C of this part. This term is sometimes shortened to CMMC Ecosystem. (CMMC-custom term)
CMMC Assessment Scope
means the set of all assets in the OSA's environment that will be assessed against CMMC security requirements. (CMMC-custom term)
CMMC Assessor and Instructor Certification Organization (CAICO)
is defined in § 170.10 and means the organization responsible for training, testing, authorizing, certifying, and recertifying
CMMC certified assessors, certified instructors, and certified professionals. (CMMC-custom term)
CMMC Instantiation of eMASS
means a CMMC instance of the Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service (eMASS), a government owned and operated system. (CMMC-custom term)
CMMC Security Requirements
means the 15 Level 1 requirements listed in the 48 CFR 52.204-21(b)(1), the 110 Level 2 requirements from NIST SP 800-171 R2 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2), and the 24 Level 3 requirements selected from NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
CMMC Status
is the result of meeting or exceeding the minimum required score for the corresponding assessment. The CMMC Status of an OSA information system is officially stored in SPRS and additionally presented on a Certificate of CMMC Status, if the assessment was conducted by a C3PAO or DCMA DIBCAC. The potential CMMC Statuses are outlined in the paragraphs that follow. (CMMC-custom term)
(i)
Final Level 1 (Self)
is defined in § 170.15(a)(1) and (c)(1). (CMMC-custom term)
(ii)
Conditional Level 2 (Self)
is defined in § 170.16(a)(1)(ii). (CMMC-custom term)
(iii)
Final Level 2 (Self)
is defined in § 170.16(a)(1)(iii). (CMMC-custom term)
(iv)
Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO)
is defined in § 170.17(a)(1)(ii). (CMMC-custom term)
(v)
Final Level 2 (C3PAO)
is defined in § 170.17(a)(1)(iii). (CMMC-custom term)
(vi)
Conditional Level 3 (DIBCAC)
is defined in § 170.18(a)(1)(ii). (CMMC-custom term)
(vii)
Final Level 3 (DIBCAC)
is defined in § 170.18(a)(1)(iii). (CMMC-custom term)
CMMC Status Date
means the date that the CMMC Status results are submitted to SPRS or the CMMC instantiation of eMASS, as appropriate. The date of the Conditional CMMC Status will remain as the CMMC Status Date after a successful POA
M closeout. A new date is not set for a Final that follows a Conditional. (CMMC-custom term)
CMMC Third-Party Assessment Organization (C3PAO)
means an organization that has been authorized or accredited by the Accreditation Body to conduct Level 2 certification assessments and has the roles and responsibilities identified in § 170.9. (CMMC-custom term)
Contractor
is defined in 48 CFR 3.502-1.
Contractor Risk Managed Assets
are defined in table 3 to § 170.19(c)(1). (CMMC-custom term)
Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)
is defined in 32 CFR 2002.4(h).
Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) Assets
means assets that can process, store, or transmit CUI. (CMMC-custom term)
DCMA DIBCAC High Assessment
means an assessment that is conducted by Government personnel in accordance with NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 and leveraging specific guidance in the DoD Assessment Methodology that:
(i) Consists of:
(A) A review of a contractor's Basic Assessment;
(B) A thorough document review;
(C) Verification, examination, and demonstration of a contractor's system security plan to validate that NIST SP 800-171 R2 security requirements have been implemented as described in the contractor's system security plan; and
(D) Discussions with the contractor to obtain additional information or clarification, as needed; and
(ii) Results in a confidence level of “High” in the resulting score. (Source: 48 CFR 252.204-7020).
Defense Industrial Base (DIB)
is defined in 32 CFR 236.2.
DoD Assessment Methodology (DoDAM)
documents a standard methodology that enables a strategic assessment of a contractor's implementation of NIST SP 800-171 R2, a requirement for compliance with 48 CFR 252.204-7012. (Source: DoDAM Version 1.2.1)
Enduring Exception
means a special circumstance or system where remediation and full compliance with CMMC
s
ecurity
r
equirements is not feasible. Examples include systems required to replicate the configuration of 'fielded' systems, medical devices, test equipment, OT, and IoT. No operational plan of action is required but the circumstance must be documented within a system security plan. Specialized Assets and GFE may be enduring exceptions. (CMMC-custom term)
Enterprise
means an organization with a defined mission/goal and a defined boundary, using information systems to execute that mission, and with responsibility for managing its own risks and performance. An enterprise may consist of all or some of the following business aspects: acquisition, program management, financial management (
e.g.,
budgets), human resources, security, and information systems, information and mission management, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
External Service Provider (ESP)
means external people, technology, or facilities that an organization utilizes for provision and management of IT and/or cybersecurity services on behalf of the organization. In the CMMC Program, CUI or Security Protection Data (
e.g.,
log data, configuration data), must be processed, stored, or transmitted on the ESP assets to be considered an ESP. (CMMC-custom term)
Federal Contract Information (FCI)
is defined in 48 CFR 4.1901.
Government Furnished Equipment (GFE)
has the same meaning as “government-furnished property” as defined in 48 CFR 45.101.
Industrial Control Systems (ICS)
means a general term that encompasses several types of control systems, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, distributed control systems (DCS), and other control system configurations that are often found in the industrial sectors and critical infrastructures, such as Programmable Logic Controllers (PLC). An ICS consists of combinations of control components (
e.g.,
electrical, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic) that act together to achieve an industrial objective (
e.g.,
manufacturing, transportation of matter or energy), as defined in NIST SP 800-82r3 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Information System (IS)
is defined in NIST SP 800-171 R2 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Internet of Things (IoT)
means the network of devices that contain the hardware, software, firmware, and actuators which allow the devices to connect, interact, and freely exchange data and information, as defined in NIST SP 800-172A Mar2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Operational plan of action
as used in security requirement CA.L2-3.12.2, means the formal artifact which identifies temporary vulnerabilities and temporary deficiencies (
e.g.,
necessary information system updates, patches, or reconfiguration as threats evolve) in implementation of requirements and documents how they will be mitigated, corrected, or eliminated. The OSA defines the format (
e.g.,
document, spreadsheet, database) and specific content of its operational plan of action. An operational plan of action does not identify a timeline for remediation and is not the same as a POA
M, which is associated with an assessment for remediation of deficiencies that must be completed within 180 days. (CMMC-custom term)
Operational Technology (OT)
means programmable systems or devices that interact with the physical environment (or manage devices that interact with the physical environment). These systems or devices detect or cause a direct change through the monitoring or control of devices, processes, and events. Examples include industrial control systems, building management systems, fire control systems, and physical access control mechanisms, as defined in NIST SP 800-160 V2R1 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Organization-defined
means as determined by the OSA except as defined in the case of Organization-Defined Parameter (ODP). (CMMC-custom term)
Organization-Defined Parameters (ODPs)
means selected enhanced security requirements contain selection and assignment operations to give organizations flexibility in defining variable parts of those requirements, as defined in NIST SP 800-172A Mar2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Note 1 to ODPs:
The organization defining the parameters is the DoD.
Organization Seeking Assessment (OSA)
means the entity seeking to undergo a self-assessment or certification assessment for a given information system for the purposes of achieving and maintaining any CMMC Status. The term OSA includes all Organizations Seeking Certification (OSCs). (CMMC-custom term)
Organization Seeking Certification (OSC)
means the entity seeking to undergo a certification assessment for a given information system for the purposes of achieving and maintaining the CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) or Level 3 (DIBCAC). An OSC is also an OSA. (CMMC-custom term)
Out-of-Scope Assets
means assets that cannot process, store, or transmit CUI because they are physically or logically separated from information systems that do process, store, or transmit CUI, or are inherently unable to do so; except for assets that provide security protection for a CUI asset (see the definition for
Security Protection Assets
). (CMMC-custom term)
Periodically
means occurring at a regular interval as determined by the OSA that may not exceed one year. (CMMC-custom term)
Personally Identifiable Information
means information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Plan of Action and Milestones (POA
M)
means a document that identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones in meeting the tasks, and scheduled completion dates for the milestones, as defined in NIST SP 800-115 Sept2008 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Prime Contractor
is defined in 48 CFR 3.502-1.
Process, store, or transmit
means data can be used by an asset (
e.g.,
accessed, entered, edited, generated, manipulated, or printed); data is inactive or at rest on an asset (
e.g.,
located on electronic media, in system component memory, or in physical format such as paper documents); or data is being transferred from one asset to another asset (
e.g.,
data in transit using physical or digital transport methods). (CMMC-custom term)
Restricted Information Systems
means systems (and associated IT components comprising the system) that are configured based on government requirements (
e.g.,
connected to something that was required to support a functional requirement) and are used to support a contract (
e.g.,
fielded systems, obsolete systems, and product deliverable replicas). (CMMC-custom term)
Risk
means a measure of the extent to which an entity is threatened by a potential circumstance or event, and is typically a function of:
(i) The adverse impacts that would arise if the circumstance or event occurs; and
(ii) The likelihood of occurrence, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Risk Assessment
means the process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of a system. Risk Assessment is part of risk management, incorporates threat and vulnerability analyses, and considers mitigations provided by security controls planned or in place. Synonymous with risk analysis, as defined in NIST SP 800-39 Mar2011 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Security Protection Assets (SPA)
means assets providing security functions or capabilities for the OSA's CMMC Assessment Scope. (CMMC-custom term)
Security Protection Data (SPD)
means data stored or processed by Security Protection Assets (SPA) that are used to protect an OSC's assessed environment. SPD is security relevant information and includes but is not limited to: configuration data required to operate an SPA, log files generated by or ingested by an SPA, data related to the configuration or vulnerability status of in-scope assets, and passwords that grant access to the in-scope environment. (CMMC-custom term)
Specialized Assets
means types of assets considered specialized assets for CMMC: Government Furnished Equipment, Internet of Things (IoT) or Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), Operational Technology (OT), Restricted Information Systems, and Test Equipment. (CMMC-custom term)
Subcontractor
is defined in 48 CFR 3.502-1.
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
means a generic name for a computerized system that is capable of gathering and processing data and applying operational controls over long distances. Typical uses include power transmission and distribution and pipeline systems. SCADA was designed for the unique communication challenges (
e.g.,
delays, data integrity) posed by the various media that must be used, such as phone lines, microwave, and satellite. Usually shared rather than dedicated, as defined in NIST SP 800-82r3 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
System Security Plan (SSP)
means the formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system or an information security program and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The system security plan describes the system components that are included within the system, the environment in which the system operates, how the security requirements are implemented, and the relationships with or connections to other systems, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
Temporary deficiency
means a condition where remediation of a discovered deficiency is feasible, and a known fix is available or is in process. The deficiency must be documented in an operational plan of action. A temporary deficiency is not based on an 'in progress' initial implementation of a CMMC security requirement but arises after implementation. A temporary deficiency may apply during the initial implementation of a security requirement if, during roll-out, specific issues with a very limited subset of equipment is discovered that must be separately addressed. There is no standard duration for which a temporary deficiency may be active. For example, FIPS-validated cryptography that requires a patch and the patched version is no longer the validated version may be a temporary deficiency. (CMMC-custom term)
Test Equipment
means hardware and/or associated IT components used in the testing of products, system components, and contract deliverables. (CMMC-custom term)
User
means an individual, or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual, authorized to access a system, as defined in NIST SP 800-53 R5 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
§ 170.5
Policy.
(a) Protection of FCI and CUI on contractor information systems is of paramount importance to the DoD and can directly impact its ability to successfully conduct essential missions and functions. It is DoD policy that defense contractors and subcontractors shall be required to safeguard FCI and CUI that is processed, stored, or transmitted on contractor information systems by applying specified security requirements. In addition, defense contractors and subcontractors may be required to implement additional safeguards defined in NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2), implementing DoD specified parameters to meet CMMC Level 3 security requirements (see table 1 to § 170.14(c)(4)). These additional requirements are necessary to protect CUI being processed, stored, or transmitted in contractor information systems, when designated by a requirement for CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC) as defined by a DoD program manager or requiring activity. In general, the Department will identify a requirement for a CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC) for solicitations and resulting contracts supporting its most critical programs and technologies.
(b) Program managers and requiring activities are responsible for identifying the CMMC Status that will apply to a procurement. Selection of the applicable CMMC Status will be based on factors including but not limited to:
(1) Criticality of the associated mission capability;
(2) Type of acquisition program or technology;
(3) Threat of loss of the FCI or CUI to be shared or generated in relation to the effort;
(4) Impacts from exploitation of information security deficiencies; and
(5) Other relevant policies and factors, including Milestone Decision Authority guidance.
(c) In accordance with the implementation plan described in § 170.3, CMMC
Program requirements will apply to new DoD solicitations and contracts, and shall flow down to subcontractors who will process, store, or transmit FCI or CUI in performance of the subcontract, as described in § 170.23.
(d) In very limited circumstances, and in accordance with all applicable policies, procedures, and requirements, a Service Acquisition Executive or Component Acquisition Executive in the DoD, or as delegated, may elect to waive inclusion of CMMC Program requirements in a solicitation or contract. In such cases, contractors and subcontractors will remain obligated to comply with all applicable cybersecurity and information security requirements.
(e) The CMMC Program does not alter any separately applicable requirements to protect FCI or CUI, including those requirements in accordance with 48 CFR 52.204-21,
Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems,
or covered defense information in accordance with 48 CFR 252.204-7012,
Safeguarding Covered Defense Information and Cyber Incident Reporting,
or any other applicable information protection requirements. The CMMC Program provides a means of verifying implementation of the security requirements set forth in 48 CFR 52.204-21, NIST SP 800-171 R2, and NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021, as applicable.

# Subpart B—Government Roles and Responsibilities.
§ 170.6
CMMC PMO.
(a) The Office of the Department of Defense Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO) Office of the Deputy CIO for Cybersecurity (DoD CIO(CS)) provides oversight of the CMMC Program and is responsible for establishing CMMC assessment, accreditation, and training requirements as well as developing and updating CMMC Program policies and implementing guidance.
(b) The CMMC PMO is responsible for monitoring the CMMC AB's performance of roles assigned in this rule and acting as necessary to address problems pertaining to effective performance.
(c) The CMMC PMO retains, on behalf of the DoD CIO(CS), the prerogative to review decisions of the CMMC Accreditation Body as part of its oversight of the CMMC program and evaluate any alleged conflicts of interest purported to influence the CMMC Accreditation Body's objectivity.
(d) The CMMC PMO is responsible for sponsoring necessary DCSA activities including FOCI risk assessment and Tier 3 security background investigations for the CMMC Ecosystem members as specified in §§ 170.8(b)(4) and (5), 170.9(b)(3) through (5), 170.11(b)(3) and (4), and 170.13(b)(3) and (4).
(e) The CMMC PMO is responsible for investigating and acting upon indications that an active CMMC Status has been called into question. Indications that may trigger investigative evaluations include, but are not limited to, reports from the CMMC Accreditation Body, a C3PAO, or anyone knowledgeable of the security processes and activities of the OSA. Investigative evaluations include, but are not limited to, reviewing pertinent assessment information, and exercising the right to conduct a DCMA DIBCAC assessment of the OSA, as provided for under the 48 CFR 252.204-7020.
(f) If a subsequent DCMA DIBCAC assessment shows that adherence to the provisions of this rule and the required CMMC Status have not been achieved or maintained, the DIBCAC results will take precedence over any pre-existing CMMC Status recorded in SPRS, or its successor capability. The DoD will update SPRS to reflect that the OSA is out of compliance and does not meet DoD CMMC requirements. If the OSA is working on an active contract requiring CMMC compliance, then standard contractual remedies will apply.
§ 170.7
DCMA DIBCAC.
(a) DCMA DIBCAC assessors in support of the CMMC Program will:
(1) Complete CMMC Level 2 and Level 3 training.
(2) Conduct Level 3 certification assessments and upload assessment results into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS, or its successor capability.
(3) Issue Certificates of CMMC Status resulting from Level 3 certification assessments.
(4) Conduct Level 2 certification assessments of the Accreditation Body
and prospective C3PAOs' information systems that process, store, and/or transmit CUI.
(5) Create and maintain a process for assessors to collect the list of assessment artifacts to include artifact names, their return value of the hashing algorithm, the hashing algorithm used, and upload that data into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS.
(6) As authorized and in accordance with all legal requirements, enter and track, OSC appeals and updated results arising from Level 3 certification assessment activities into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS.
(7) Retain all records in accordance with DCMA-MAN 4501-04.
(8) Conduct an assessment of the OSA, when requested by the CMMC PMO per §§ 170.6(e) and (f), as provided for under the 48 CFR 252.204-7019 and 48 CFR 252.204-7020.
(9) Identify assessments that meet the criteria in § 170.20 and verify that SPRS accurately reflects the CMMC Status.
(b) An OSC, the CMMC AB, or a C3PAO may appeal the outcome of its DCMA DIBCAC conducted assessment within 21 days by submitting a written basis for appeal with the requirements in question for DCMA DIBCAC consideration. Appeals may be submitted for review by visiting
www.dcma.mil/DIBCAC
for contact information, and a DCMA DIBCAC Quality Assurance Review Team will provide a written response or request additional supporting documentation.

# Subpart C—CMMC Assessment and Certification Ecosystem.
§ 170.8
Accreditation Body.
(a)
Roles and responsibilities.
The Accreditation Body is responsible for authorizing and ensuring the accreditation of CMMC Third-Party Assessment Organizations (C3PAOs) in accordance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) and all applicable authorization and accreditation requirements set forth. The Accreditation Body is responsible for establishing the C3PAO authorization requirements and the C3PAO Accreditation Scheme and submitting both for approval by the CMMC PMO. At any given point in time, there will be only one Accreditation Body for the DoD CMMC Program.
(b)
Requirements.
The CMMC Accreditation Body shall:
(1) Be US-based and be and remain a member in good standing of the Inter-American Accreditation Cooperation (IAAC) and become an International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRA) signatory, with a signatory status scope of ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
(2) Be and remain a member in good standing of the International Accreditation Forum (IAF) with mutual recognition arrangement signatory status scope of ISO/IEC 17024:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
(3) Achieve and maintain full compliance with ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) and complete a peer assessment by other ILAC signatories for competence in accrediting conformity assessment bodies to ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2), both within 24 months of DoD approval.
(i) Prior to achieving full compliance as set forth in this paragraph (b)(3), the Accreditation Body shall:
(A) Authorize C3PAOs who meet all requirements set forth in § 170.9 as well as administrative requirements as determined by the Accreditation Body to conduct Level 2 certification assessments and issue Certificates of CMMC Status to OSCs based on the assessment results.
(B) Require all C3PAOs to achieve and maintain the ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) requirements within 27 months of authorization.
(ii) The Accreditation Body shall accredit C3PAOs, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2), who meet all requirements set forth in § 170.9 to conduct Level 2 certification assessments and issue Certificates of CMMC Status to OSCs based on the results.
(4) Ensure that the Accreditation Body's Board of Directors, professional staff, Information Technology (IT) staff, accreditation staff, and independent CMMC Certified Assessor staff
complete a Tier 3 background investigation resulting in a determination of national security eligibility. This Tier 3 background investigation will not result in a security clearance and is not being executed for the purpose of government employment. The Tier 3 background investigation is initiated using the Standard Form (SF) 86 (
www.gsa.gov/reference/forms/questionnaire-for-national-security-positions
) and submitted by DoD CIO Security to Washington Headquarters Services (WHS) for coordination for processing by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA). These positions are designated as non-critical sensitive with a risk designation of “Moderate Risk” in accordance with 5 CFR 1400.201(b) and (d) and the investigative requirements of 5 CFR 731.106(c)(2).
(5) Comply with Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence (FOCI) by:
(i) Completing the Standard Form (SF) 328 (
www.gsa.gov/reference/forms/certificate-pertaining-to-foreign-interests
),
Certificate Pertaining to Foreign Interests,
and submit it directly to Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) and undergo a National Security Review with regards to the protection of controlled unclassified information based on the factors identified in 32 CFR 117.11(b) using the procedures outlined in 32 CFR 117.11(c). The Accreditation Body must receive a non-disqualifying eligibility determination by the CMMC PMO to be recognized by the Department of Defense.
(ii) Reporting any change to the information provided on its SF 328 by resubmitting the SF 328 to DCSA within 15 business days of the change being effective. A disqualifying eligibility determination, based on the results of the change, will result in the Accreditation Body losing its authorization or accreditation under the CMMC Program.
(iii) Identifying all prospective C3PAOs to the CMMC PMO. The CMMC PMO will sponsor the prospective C3PAO for a FOCI risk assessment conducted by the DCSA using the SF 328 as part of the authorization and accreditation processes.
(iv) Notifying prospective C3PAOs of the CMMC PMO's eligibility determination resulting from the FOCI risk assessment.
(6) Obtain a Level 2 certification assessment in accordance with the procedures specified in § 170.17(a)(1) and (c). This assessment, conducted by DCMA DIBCAC, shall meet all requirements for a Final Level 2 (C3PAO) but will not result in a CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO). The Level 2 certification assessment process must be performed every three years.
(7) Provide all documentation and records in English.
(8) Establish, maintain, and manage an up-to-date list of authorized and accredited C3PAOs on a single publicly accessible website and provide the list of these entities and their status to the DoD through submission in the CMMC instantiation of eMASS.
(9) Provide the CMMC PMO with current data on C3PAOs, including authorization and accreditation records and status in the CMMC instantiation of eMASS. This data shall include the dates associated with the authorization and accreditation of each C3PAO.
(10) Provide the DoD with information about aggregate statistics pertaining to operations of the CMMC Ecosystem to include the authorization and accreditation status of C3PAOs or other information as requested.
(11) Provide inputs for assessor supplemental guidance to the CMMC PMO. Participate and support coordination of these and other inputs through DoD-led Working Groups.
(12) Ensure that all information about individuals is encrypted and protected in all Accreditation Body information systems and databases.
(13) Provide all plans that are related to potential sources of revenue, to include but not limited to: fees, licensing, processes, membership, and/or partnerships to the Department's CMMC PMO.
(14) Ensure that the CMMC Assessors and Instructors Certification Organization (CAICO) is compliant with ISO/IEC 17024:2012(E)
(15) Ensure all training products, instruction, and testing materials are of high quality and subject to CAICO quality control policies and procedures, to include technical accuracy and
alignment with all applicable legal, regulatory, and policy requirements.
(16) Develop and maintain an internal appeals process, as required by ISO/IEC 17020:2017(E), and render a final decision on all elevated appeals.
(17) Develop and maintain a comprehensive plan and schedule to comply with all ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E), and DoD requirements for Conflict of Interest, Code of Professional Conduct, and Ethics policies as set forth in the DoD contract. All policies shall apply to the Accreditation Body, and other individuals, entities, and groups within the CMMC Ecosystem who provide Level 2 certification assessments, CMMC instruction, CMMC training materials, or Certificates of CMMC Status on behalf of the Accreditation Body. All policies in this section must be approved by the CMMC PMO prior to effectivity in accordance with the following requirements.
(i)
Conflict of Interest (CoI) policy.
The CoI policy shall:
(A) Include a detailed risk mitigation plan for all potential conflicts of interest that may pose a risk to compliance with ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E).
(B) Require employees, Board directors, and members of any accreditation committees or appeals adjudication committees to disclose to the CMMC PMO, in writing, as soon as it is known or reasonably should be known, any actual, potential, or perceived conflict of interest with sufficient detail to allow for assessment.
(C) Require employees, Board directors, and members of any accreditation committees or appeals adjudication committees who leave the board or organization to enter a “cooling off period” of one (1) year whereby they are prohibited from working with the Accreditation Body or participating in any and all CMMC activities described in Subpart C.
(D) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to actively avoid participating in any activity, practice, or transaction that could result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest.
(E) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to disclose to Accreditation Body leadership, in writing, any actual or potential conflict of interest as soon as it is known, or reasonably should be known.
(ii)
Code of Professional Conduct (CoPC) policy.
The CoPC policy shall:
(A) Describe the performance standards by which the members of the CMMC Ecosystem will be held accountable and the procedures for addressing violations of those performance standards.
(B) Require the Accreditation Body to investigate and resolve any potential violations that are reported or are identified by the DoD.
(C) Require the Accreditation Body to inform the DoD in writing of new investigations within 72 hours.
(D) Require the Accreditation Body to report to the DoD in writing the outcome of completed investigations within 15 business days.
(E) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to represent themselves and their companies accurately; to include not misrepresenting any professional credentials or status, including CMMC authorization or CMMC Status, nor exaggerating the services that they or their company are capable or authorized to deliver.
(F) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to be honest and factual in all CMMC-related activities with colleagues, clients, trainees, and others with whom they interact.
(G) Prohibit CMMC Ecosystem members from participating in the Level 2 certification assessment process for an assessment in which they previously served as a consultant to prepare the organization for any CMMC assessment within 3 years.
(H) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to maintain the confidentiality of customer and government data to preclude unauthorized disclosure.
(I) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to report results and data from Level 2 certification assessments and training objectively, completely, clearly, and accurately.
(J) Prohibit CMMC Ecosystem members from cheating, assisting another in cheating, or allowing cheating on CMMC examinations.
(K) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to utilize official training content
developed by a CMMC training organization approved by the CAICO in all CMMC certification courses.
(iii)
Ethics policy.
The Ethics policy shall:
(A) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to report to the Accreditation Body within 30 days of convictions, guilty pleas, or no contest pleas to crimes of fraud, larceny, embezzlement, misappropriation of funds, misrepresentation, perjury, false swearing, conspiracy to conceal, or a similar offense in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, whether or not in connection with activities that relate to carrying out their role in the CMMC Ecosystem.
(B) Prohibit harassment or discrimination by CMMC Ecosystem members in all interactions with individuals whom they encounter in connection with their roles in the CMMC Ecosystem.
(C) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to have and maintain a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics.
§ 170.9
CMMC Third-Party Assessment Organizations (C3PAOs).
(a)
Roles and responsibilities.
C3PAOs are organizations that are responsible for conducting Level 2 certification assessments and issuing Certificates of CMMC Status to OSCs based on the results. C3PAOs must be accredited or authorized by the Accreditation Body in accordance with the requirements set forth.
(b)
Requirements.
C3PAOs shall:
(1) Obtain authorization or accreditation from the Accreditation Body in accordance with § 170.8(b)(3)(i) and (ii).
(2) Comply with the Accreditation Body policies for Conflict of Interest, Code of Professional Conduct, and Ethics set forth in § 170.8(b)(17); and achieve and maintain compliance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) within 27 months of authorization.
(3) Require all C3PAO company personnel participating in the Level 2 certification assessment process to complete a Tier 3 background investigation resulting in a determination of national security eligibility. This includes the CMMC Assessment Team and the quality assurance individual. This Tier 3 background investigation will not result in a security clearance and is not being executed for the purpose of government employment. The Tier 3 background investigation is initiated using the Standard Form (SF) 86 (
www.gsa.gov/reference/forms/questionnaire-for-national-security-positions
). These positions are designated as non-critical sensitive with a risk designation of “Moderate Risk” in accordance with 5 CFR 1400.201(b) and (d) and the investigative requirements of 5 CFR 731.106(c)(2).
(4) Require all C3PAO company personnel participating in the Level 2 certification assessment process who are not eligible to obtain a Tier 3 background investigation to meet the equivalent of a favorably adjudicated Tier 3 background investigation. DoD will determine the Tier 3 background investigation equivalence for use with the CMMC Program only.
(5) Comply with Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence (FOCI) by:
(i) Completing and submitting Standard Form (SF) 328 (
www.gsa.gov/reference/forms/certificate-pertaining-to-foreign-interests
),
Certificate Pertaining to Foreign Interests,
upon request from DCSA and undergo a National Security Review with regards to the protection of controlled unclassified information based on the factors identified in 32 CFR 117.11(b) using the procedures outlined in 32 CFR 117.11(c).
(ii) Receiving a non-disqualifying eligibility determination from the CMMC PMO resulting from the FOCI risk assessment in order to proceed to a DCMA DIBCAC CMMC Level 2 assessment, as part of the authorization and accreditation process set forth in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(iii) Reporting any change to the information provided on its SF 328 by resubmitting the SF 328 to DCSA within 15 business days of the change being effective. A disqualifying eligibility determination, based on the results of the change, will result in the C3PAO losing its authorization or accreditation.
(6) Undergo a Level 2 certification assessment meeting all requirements for a Final Level 2 (C3PAO) in accordance with the procedures specified in
§ 170.17(a)(1) and (c), with the following exceptions:
(i) The assessment will be conducted by DCMA DIBCAC.
(ii) The assessment will not result in a CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) nor receive a Certificate of CMMC Status.
(7) Provide all documentation and records in English.
(8) Submit pre-assessment and planning material, final assessment reports, and CMMC certificates of assessment into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS.
(9) Unless disposition is otherwise authorized by the CMMC PMO, maintain all assessment related records for a period of six (6) years. Such records include any materials generated by the C3PAO in the course of an assessment, any working papers generated from Level 2 certification assessments; and materials relating to monitoring, education, training, technical knowledge, skills, experience, and authorization of all personnel involved in assessment activities; contractual agreements with OSCs; and organizations for whom consulting services were provided.
(10) Provide any requested audit information, including any out-of-cycle from ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) requirements, to the Accreditation Body.
(11) Ensure that all personally identifiable information (PII) is encrypted and protected in all C3PAO information systems and databases.
(12) Meet the requirements for Assessment Team composition. An Assessment Team must include at least two people: a Lead CCA, as defined in § 170.11(b)(10), and at least one other CCA. Additional CCAs and CCPs may also participate on an Assessment Team.
(13) Implement a quality assurance function that ensures the accuracy and completeness of assessment data prior to upload into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS. Any individual fulfilling the quality assurance function must be a CCA and cannot be a member of an Assessment Team for which they are performing a quality assurance role. A quality assurance individual shall manage the C3PAO's quality assurance reviews as defined in paragraph (b)(14) of this section and the appeals process as required by paragraphs (b)(19) and (20) of this section and in accordance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) and ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
(14) Conduct quality assurance reviews for each assessment, including observations of the Assessment Team's conduct and management of CMMC assessment processes.
(15) Ensure that all Level 2 certification assessment activities are performed on the information system within the CMMC Assessment Scope.
(16) Maintain all facilities, personnel, and equipment involved in CMMC activities that are in scope of their Level 2 certification assessment and comply with all security requirements and procedures as prescribed by the Accreditation Body.
(17) Ensure that all assessment data and information uploaded into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS assessment data is compliant with the CMMC assessment data standard as set forth in eMASS CMMC Assessment Import Templates on the CMMC eMASS website:
https://cmmc.emass.apps.mil
. This system is accessible only to authorized users.
(18) Issue Certificates of CMMC Status to OSCs in accordance with the Level 2 certification assessment requirements set forth in § 170.17, that include, at a minimum, all industry CAGE codes associated with the information systems addressed by the CMMC Assessment Scope, the C3PAO name, assessment unique identifier, the OSC name, and the CMMC Status date and level.
(19) Address all OSC appeals arising from Level 2 certification assessment activities. If the OSC or C3PAO is not satisfied with the result of the appeal either the OSC or the C3PAO can elevate the matter to the Accreditation Body for final determination.
(20) Submit assessment appeals, review records, and decision results of assessment appeals to DoD using the CMMC instantiation of eMASS.
§ 170.10
CMMC Assessor and Instructor Certification Organization (CAICO).
(a)
Roles and responsibilities.
The CAICO is responsible for training, testing, authorizing, certifying, and recertifying CMMC assessors, instructors, and related professionals. Only the CAICO may make decisions relating to examination certifications, including the granting, maintaining, recertifying, expanding, and reducing the scope of certification, and suspending or withdrawing certification in accordance with current ISO/IEC 17024:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2). At any given point in time, there will be only one CAICO for the DoD CMMC Program.
(b)
Requirements.
The CAICO shall:
(1) Comply with the Accreditation Body policies for Conflict of Interest, Code of Professional Conduct, and Ethics set forth in § 170.8(b)(17); and achieve and maintain ISO/IEC 17024(E) accreditation within 12 months of December 16, 2024.
(2) Provide all documentation and records in English.
(3) Train, test, and designate PIs in accordance with the requirements of this section. Train, test, certify, and recertify CCPs, CCAs, and CCIs in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(4) Ensure the instructor and assessor certification examinations are certified under ISO/IEC 17024:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2), by a recognized US-based accreditor who is not a member of the CMMC Accreditation Body. The US-based accreditor must be a signatory to International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) or relevant International Accreditation Forum (IAF) Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRA) and must operate in accordance with ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
(5) Establish quality control policies and procedures for the generation of training products, instruction, and testing materials.
(6) Oversee development, administration, and management pertaining to the quality of training and examination materials for CMMC assessor and instructor certification and recertification.
(7) Establish and publish an authorization and certification appeals process to receive, evaluate, and make decisions on complaints and appeals in accordance with ISO/IEC 17024:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
(8) Address all appeals arising from the CCA, CCI, and CCP authorizations and certifications process through use of internal processes in accordance with ISO/IEC 17024:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
(9) Maintain records for a period of six (6) years of all procedures, processes, and actions related to fulfillment of the requirements set forth in this section and provide the Accreditation Body access to those records.
(10) Provide the Accreditation Body information about the authorization and accreditation status of assessors, instructors, training community, and publishing partners.
(11) Ensure separation of duties between individuals involved in testing activities, training activities, and certification activities.
(12) Safeguard and require any CAICO training support service providers, as applicable, to safeguard the confidentiality of applicant, candidate, and certificate-holder information and ensure the overall security of the certification process.
(13) Ensure that all PII is encrypted and protected in all CAICO information systems and databases and those of any CAICO training support service providers.
(14) Ensure the security of assessor and instructor examinations and the fair and credible administration of examinations.
(15) Neither disclose nor allow any CAICO training support service providers, as applicable, to disclose CMMC data or metrics related to authorization or certification activities to any entity other than the Accreditation Body and DoD, except as required by law.
(16) Require retraining and redesignation of PIs upon significant change to DoD's CMMC Program requirements. Require retraining and recertification of CCPs, CCAs, and CCIs upon significant change to DoD's CMMC Program
requirements, as determined by the DoD or the CAICO.
(17) Require CMMC Ecosystem members to report to the CAICO within 30 days of convictions, guilty pleas, or no contest pleas to crimes of fraud, larceny, embezzlement, misappropriation of funds, misrepresentation, perjury, false swearing, conspiracy to conceal, or a similar offense in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, whether or not in connection with activities that relate to carrying out their role in the CMMC Ecosystem.
§ 170.11
CMMC Certified Assessor (CCA).
(a)
Roles and responsibilities.
CCAs, in support of a C3PAO, conduct Level 2 certification assessments of OSCs in accordance with NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2), the assessment processes defined in § 170.17, and the scoping requirements defined in § 170.19(c). CCAs must meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. A CCA may conduct Level 2 certification assessments and participate on a C3PAO Assessment Team.
(b)
Requirements.
CCAs shall:
(1) Obtain and maintain certification from the CAICO in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 170.10. Certification is valid for 3 years from the date of issuance.
(2) Comply with the Accreditation Body policies for Conflict of Interest, Code of Professional Conduct, and Ethics set forth in § 170.8(b)(17).
(3) Complete a Tier 3 background investigation resulting in a determination of national security eligibility. This Tier 3 background investigation will not result in a security clearance and is not being executed for the purpose of government employment. The Tier 3 background investigation is initiated using the Standard Form (SF) 86 (
www.gsa.gov/reference/forms/questionnaire-for-national-security-positions
). These positions are designated as non-critical sensitive with a risk designation of “Moderate Risk” in accordance with 5 CFR 1400.201(b) and (d) and the investigative requirements of 5 CFR 731.106(c)(2).
(4) Meet the equivalent of a favorably adjudicated Tier 3 background investigation when not eligible for a Tier 3 background investigation. DoD will determine the Tier 3 background investigation equivalence for use with the CMMC Program only.
(5) Provide all documentation and records in English.
(6) Be a CCP who has at least 3 years of cybersecurity experience, at least 1 year of assessment or audit experience, and at least one foundational qualification, aligned to at least the Intermediate Proficiency Level of the DoD Cyberspace Workforce Framework's Security Control Assessor (612) Work Role, from DoD Manual 8140.03,
Cyberspace Workforce Qualification and Management Program
(
https://dodcio.defense.gov/Portals/0/Documents/Library/DoDM-8140-03.pdf
). Information on the Work Role 612 can be found at
https://public.cyber.mil/dcwf-work-role/security-control-assessor/
.
(7) Only use IT, cloud, cybersecurity services, and end-point devices provided by the authorized/accredited C3PAO that has been engaged to perform that OSA's Level 2 certification assessment and which has undergone a Level 2 certification assessment by DCMA DIBCAC (or higher) for all assessment activities. Individual assessors are prohibited from using any other IT, including IT that is personally owned, to include internal and external cloud services and end-point devices, to process, store, or transmit CMMC assessment reports or any other CMMC assessment-related information. The evaluation of assessment evidence within the OSC environment, using OSC tools, is permitted.
(8) Immediately notify the responsible C3PAO of any breach or potential breach of security to any CMMC-related assessment materials under the assessors' purview.
(9) Not share any information about an OSC obtained during CMMC pre-assessment and assessment activities with any person not involved with that specific assessment, except as otherwise required by law.
(10) Qualify as a Lead CCA by having at least 5 years of cybersecurity experience, 5 years of management experience, 3 years of assessment or audit experience, and at least one foundational
qualification aligned to Advanced Proficiency Level of the DoD Cyberspace Workforce Framework's Security Control Assessor (612) Work Role, from DoD Manual 8140.03,
Cyberspace Workforce Qualification and Management Program
(
https://dodcio.defense.gov/Portals/0/Documents/Library/DoDM-8140-03.pdf
). Information on the Work Role 612 can be found at
https://public.cyber.mil/dcwf-work-role/security-control-assessor/.
§ 170.12
CMMC Instructor.
(a)
CMMC Provisional Instructor (PI) roles and responsibilities.
A CMMC Provisional Instructor (PI) teaches CCA and CCP candidates during the transitional period that ends 18 months after December 16, 2024. A PI is trained, tested, and designated to perform CMMC instructional duties by the CAICO to teach CCP and CCA candidates. PIs are designated by the CAICO after successful completion of the PI training and testing requirements set forth by the CAICO. A PI with a valid CCP certification may instruct CCP candidates, while a PI with a valid CCA certification may instruct CCP and CCA candidates. PIs are required to meet requirements in (c) of this section.
(b)
CMMC Certified Instructor (CCI) roles and responsibilities.
A CMMC Certified Instructor (CCI) teaches CCP, CCA, and CCI candidates and performs CMMC instructional duties. Candidate CCIs are certified by the CAICO after successful completion of the CCI training and testing requirements. A CCI is required to obtain and maintain assessor and instructor certifications from the CAICO in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 170.10 and in paragraph (c) of this section. A CCI with a valid CCP certification may instruct CCP candidates, while a CCI with a valid CCA certification may instruct CCP, CCA, and CCI candidates. Certifications are valid for 3 years from the date of issuance. CCIs are required to meet requirements in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Requirements.
CMMC Instructors shall:
(1) Obtain and maintain instructor designation or certification, as appropriate, from the CAICO in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 170.10.
(2) Obtain and maintain CCP or CCA certification to deliver CCP training.
(3) Obtain and maintain a CCA certification to deliver CCA training.
(4) Comply with the Accreditation Body policies for Conflict of Interest, Code of Professional Conduct, and Ethics set forth in § 170.8(b)(17).
(5) Provide all documentation and records in English.
(6) Provide the Accreditation Body and the CAICO annually with accurate information detailing their qualifications, training experience, professional affiliations, and certifications, and, upon reasonable request, submit documentation verifying this information.
(7) Not provide CMMC consulting services while serving as a CMMC instructor; however, subject to the Code of Professional Conduct and Conflict of Interest policies, can serve on an assessment team.
(8) Not participate in the development of exam objectives and/or exam content or act as an exam proctor while at the same time serving as a CCI.
(9) Keep confidential all information obtained or created during the performance of CMMC training activities, including trainee records, except as required by law.
(10) Not disclose any CMMC-related data or metrics that is PII, FCI, or CUI to anyone without prior coordination with and approval from DoD.
(11) Notify the Accreditation Body or the CAICO if required by law or authorized by contractual commitments to release confidential information.
(12) Not share with anyone any CMMC training-related information not previously publicly disclosed.
§ 170.13
CMMC Certified Professional (CCP).
(a)
Roles and responsibilities.
A CMMC Certified Professional (CCP) completes rigorous training on CMMC and the assessment process to provide advice, consulting, and recommendations to their OSA clients. Candidate CCPs are certified by the CAICO after successful completion of the CCP training and testing requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. CCPs are eligible to become CMMC Certified Assessors and can participate as a CCP on
Level 2 certification assessments with CCA oversight where the CCA makes all final determinations.
(b)
Requirements.
CCPs shall:
(1) Obtain and maintain certification from the CAICO in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 170.10. Certification is valid for 3 years from the date of issuance.
(2) Comply with the Accreditation Body policies for Conflict of Interest, Code of Professional Conduct, and Ethics as set forth in § 170.8(b)(17).
(3) Complete a Tier 3 background investigation resulting in a determination of national security eligibility. This Tier 3 background investigation will not result in a security clearance and is not being executed for the purpose of government employment. The Tier 3 background investigation is initiated using the Standard Form (SF) 86 (
www.gsa.gov/reference/forms/questionnaire-for-national-security-positions
). These positions are designated as non-critical sensitive with a risk designation of “Moderate Risk” in accordance with 5 CFR 1400.201(b) and (d) and the investigative requirements of 5 CFR 731.106(c)(2).
(4) Meet the equivalent of a favorably adjudicated Tier 3 background investigation when not eligible to obtain a Tier 3 background investigation. DoD will determine the Tier 3 background investigation equivalence for use with the CMMC Program only.
(5) Provide all documentation and records in English.
(6) Not share any information about an OSC obtained during CMMC pre-assessment and assessment activities with any person not involved with that specific assessment, except as otherwise required by law.

# Subpart D—Key Elements of the CMMC Program
§ 170.14
CMMC Model.
(a)
Overview.
The CMMC Model incorporates the security requirements from:
(1) 48 CFR 52.204-21,
Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems;
(2) NIST SP 800-171 R2,
Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations
(incorporated by reference, see § 170.2); and
(3) Selected security requirements from NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021,
Enhanced Security Requirements for Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information: A Supplement to NIST Special Publication 800-171
(incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
(b)
CMMC domains.
The CMMC Model consists of domains that map to the Security Requirement Families defined in NIST SP 800-171 R2 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2).
(c)
CMMC level requirements.
CMMC Levels 1-3 utilize the safeguarding requirements and security requirements specified in 48 CFR 52.204-21 (for Level 1), NIST SP 800-171 R2 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) (for Level 2), and selected security requirements from NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) (for Level 3). This paragraph discusses the numbering scheme and the security requirements for each level.
(1)
Numbering.
Each security requirement has an identification number in the format—DD.L#-REQ—where:
(i) DD is the two-letter domain abbreviation;
(ii) L# is the CMMC level number; and
(iii) REQ is the 48 CFR 52.204-21 paragraph number, NIST SP 800-171 R2 requirement number, or NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021 requirement number.
(2)
CMMC Level 1 security requirements.
The security requirements in CMMC Level 1 are those set forth in 48 CFR 52.204-21(b)(1)(i) through (xv).
(3)
CMMC Level 2 security requirements.
The security requirements in CMMC Level 2 are identical to the requirements in NIST SP 800-171 R2.
(4)
CMMC Level 3 security requirements.
The security requirements in CMMC Level 3 are selected from NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021, and where applicable, Organization-Defined Parameters (ODPs) are assigned. Table 1 to this paragraph identifies the selected requirements and applicable ODPs that represent the CMMC Level 3 security requirements. ODPs for the NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021 requirements are italicized, where applicable:
Table 1 to § 170.14(
c
)(4)
Security requirement No.*
CMMC Level 3 security requirements
(selected NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021 security requirement with DoD ODPs italicized)
(i) AC.L3-3.1.2e
Restrict access to systems and system components to only those information resources that are owned, provisioned, or issued by the organization.
(ii) AC.L3-3.1.3e
Employ
secure information transfer solutions
to control information flows between security domains on connected systems.
(iii) AT.L3-3.2.1e
Provide awareness training
upon initial hire, following a significant cyber event, and at least annually
,
focused on recognizing and responding to threats from social engineering, advanced persistent threat actors, breaches, and suspicious behaviors; update the training
at least annually
or when there are significant changes to the threat.
(iv) AT.L3-3.2.2e
Include practical exercises in awareness training for
all users, tailored by roles, to include general users, users with specialized roles, and privileged users,
that are aligned with current threat scenarios and provide feedback to individuals involved in the training and their supervisors.
(v) CM.L3-3.4.1e
Establish and maintain an authoritative source and repository to provide a trusted source and accountability for approved and implemented system components.
(vi) CM.L3-3.4.2e
Employ automated mechanisms to detect misconfigured or unauthorized system components; after detection,
remove the components or place the components in a quarantine or remediation network
to facilitate patching, re-configuration, or other mitigations.
(vii) CM.L3-3.4.3e
Employ automated discovery and management tools to maintain an up-to-date, complete, accurate, and readily available inventory of system components.
(viii) IA.L3-3.5.1e
Identify and authenticate
systems and system components, where possible,
before establishing a network connection using bidirectional authentication that is cryptographically based and replay resistant.
(ix) IA.L3-3.5.3e
Employ automated or manual/procedural mechanisms to prohibit system components from connecting to organizational systems unless the components are known, authenticated, in a properly configured state, or in a trust profile.
(x) IR.L3-3.6.1e
Establish and maintain a security operations center capability that operates
24/7, with allowance for remote/on-call staff.
(xi) IR.L3-3.6.2e
Establish and maintain a cyber-incident response team that can be deployed by the organization within
24 hours.
(xii) PS.L3-3.9.2e
Ensure that organizational systems are protected if adverse information develops or is obtained about individuals with access to CUI.
(xiii) RA.L3-3.11.1e
Employ
threat intelligence, at a minimum from open or commercial sources, and any DoD-provided sources,
as part of a risk assessment to guide and inform the development of organizational systems, security architectures, selection of security solutions, monitoring, threat hunting, and response and recovery activities.
(xiv) RA.L3-3.11.2e
Conduct cyber threat hunting activities
on an on-going aperiodic basis or when indications warrant,
to search for indicators of compromise in
organizational systems
and detect, track, and disrupt threats that evade existing controls.
(xv) RA.L3-3.11.3e
Employ advanced automation and analytics capabilities in support of analysts to predict and identify risks to organizations, systems, and system components.
(xvi) RA.L3-3.11.4e
Document or reference in the system security plan the security solution selected, the rationale for the security solution, and the risk determination.
(xvii) RA.L3-3.11.5e
Assess the effectiveness of security solutions
at least annually or upon receipt of relevant cyber threat information, or in response to a relevant cyber incident,
to address anticipated risk to organizational systems and the organization based on current and accumulated threat intelligence.
(xviii) RA.L3-3.11.6e
Assess, respond to, and monitor supply chain risks associated with organizational systems and system components.
(xix) RA.L3-3.11.7e
Develop a plan for managing supply chain risks associated with organizational systems and system components; update the plan
at least annually, and upon receipt of relevant cyber threat information, or in response to a relevant cyber incident.
(xx) CA.L3-3.12.1e
Conduct penetration testing
at least annually or when significant security changes are made to the system,
leveraging automated scanning tools and ad hoc tests using subject matter experts.
(xxi) SC.L3-3.13.4e
Employ
physical isolation techniques or logical isolation techniques or both
in organizational systems and system components.
(xxii) SI.L3-3.14.1e
Verify the integrity of
security critical and essential software
using root of trust mechanisms or cryptographic signatures.
(xxiii) SI.L3-3.14.3e
Ensure that
specialized assets including IoT, IIoT, OT, GFE, Restricted Information Systems, and test equipment
are included in the scope of the specified enhanced security requirements or are segregated in purpose-specific networks.
(xxiv) SI.L3-3.14.6e
Use threat indicator information and effective mitigations obtained from,
at a minimum, open or commercial sources, and any DoD-provided sources,
to guide and inform intrusion detection and threat hunting.
* Roman numerals in parentheses before the Security Requirement are for numbering purposes only. The numerals are not part of the naming convention for the requirement.
(d)
Implementation.
Assessment of security requirements is prescribed by NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) and NIST SP 800-172A Mar2022 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2). Descriptive text in these documents support OSA implementation of the security requirements and use the terms organization-defined and periodically. Except where referring to Organization-Defined Parameters (ODPs), organization-defined means as determined by the OSA. Periodically means occurring at regular intervals. As used in many requirements within CMMC, the interval length is organization-defined to provided contractor flexibility, with an interval length of no more than one year.
§ 170.15
CMMC Level 1 self-assessment and affirmation requirements.
(a)
Level 1 self-assessment.
To comply with CMMC Level 1 self-assessment requirements, the OSA must meet the requirements detailed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. An OSA conducts a Level 1 self-assessment as detailed in paragraph (c) of this section to achieve a CMMC Status of Final Level 1 (Self).
(1)
Level 1 self-assessment requirements.
The OSA must complete and achieve a MET result for all security requirements specified in § 170.14(c)(2) to achieve the CMMC Status of Final Level 1 (Self). No POA
Ms are permitted for CMMC Level 1. The OSA must conduct a self-assessment in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 170.15(c)(1) and submit assessment results in SPRS. To maintain compliance with the requirements for the CMMC Status of Final Level 1 (Self), the OSA must conduct a Level 1 self-assessment on an annual basis and submit the results in SPRS, or its successor capability.
(i)
Inputs to SPRS.
The Level 1 self-assessment results in the Supplier Performance Risk System (SPRS) shall include, at minimum, the following items:
(A) CMMC Level.
(B) CMMC Status Date.
(C) CMMC Assessment Scope.
(D) All industry CAGE code(s) associated with the information system(s) addressed by the CMMC Assessment Scope.
(E) Compliance result.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2)
Affirmation.
Affirmation of the Level 1 (Self) CMMC Status is required for all Level 1 self-assessments. Affirmation procedures are set forth in § 170.22.
(b)
Contract eligibility.
Prior to award of any contract or subcontract with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self), OSAs must both achieve a CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self) and have submitted an affirmation of compliance into SPRS for all information systems within the CMMC Assessment Scope.
(c)
Procedures
—(1)
Level 1 self-assessment.
The OSA must conduct a Level 1 self-assessment scored in accordance with the CMMC Scoring Methodology described in § 170.24. The Level 1 self-assessment must be performed in accordance with the CMMC Level 1 scope requirements set forth in § 170.19(a) and (b) and the following:
(i) The Level 1 self-assessment must be performed using the objectives defined in NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) for the security requirement that maps to the CMMC Level 1 security requirement as specified in table 1 to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. In any case where an objective addresses CUI, FCI should be substituted for CUI in the objective.
(ii) Mapping table for CMMC Level 1 security requirements to the NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 objectives.
Table 2 to § 170.15
(c)(1)(ii)
—CMMC Level 1 Security Requirements Mapped to NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018
CMMC Level 1 security requirements as set forth in § 170.14(c)(2)
NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018
AC.L1-b.1.i
3.1.1
AC.L1-b.1.ii
3.1.2
AC.L1-b.1.iii
3.1.20
AC.L1-b.1.iv
3.1.22
IA.L1-b.1.v
3.5.1
IA.L1-b.1.vi
3.5.2
MP.L1-b.1.vii
3.8.3
PE.L1-b.1.viii
3.10.1
First phrase of PE.L1-b.1.ix (FAR b.1.ix *)
3.10.3
Second phrase of PE.L1-b.1.ix (FAR b.1.ix *)
3.10.4
Third phrase of PE.L1-b.1.ix (FAR b.1.ix *)
3.10.5
SC.L1-b.1.x
3.13.1
SC.L1-b.1.xi
3.13.5
SI.L1-b.1.xii
3.14.1
SI.L1-b.1.xiii
3.14.2
SI.L1-b.1.xiv
3.14.4
SI.L1-b.1.xv
3.14.5
* Three of the 48 CFR 52.204-21 requirements were broken apart by “phrase” when NIST SP 800-171 R2 was developed.
(iii) Additional guidance can be found in the guidance document listed in paragraph (b) of appendix A to this part.
(2)
Artifact retention.
The artifacts used as evidence for the assessment must be retained by the OSA for six (6) years from the CMMC Status Date.
§ 170.16
CMMC Level 2 self-assessment and affirmation requirements.
(a)
Level 2 self-assessment.
To comply with Level 2 self-assessment requirements, the OSA must meet the requirements detailed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. An OSA conducts a Level 2 self-assessment as detailed in paragraph (c) of this section to achieve a CMMC Status of either Conditional or Final Level 2 (Self). Achieving a CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self) also satisfies the requirements for a CMMC Status of Level 1 (Self) detailed in § 170.15 for the same CMMC Assessment Scope.
(1)
Level 2 self-assessment requirements.
The OSA must complete and achieve a MET result for all security requirements specified in § 170.14(c)(3) to achieve the CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self). The OSA must conduct a self-assessment in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and submit assessment results in Supplier Performance Risk System (SPRS). To maintain compliance with the requirements for a CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self), the OSA must conduct a Level 2 self-assessment every three years and submit the results in SPRS, within three years of the CMMC Status Date associated with the Conditional Level 2 (Self).
(i)
Inputs to SPRS.
The Level 2 self-assessment results in the SPRS shall include, at minimum, the following information:
(A) CMMC Level.
(B) CMMC Status Date.
(C) CMMC Assessment Scope.
(D) All industry CAGE code(s) associated with the information system(s) addressed by the CMMC Assessment Scope.
(E) Overall Level 2 self-assessment score (
e.g.,
105 out of 110).
(F) POA
M usage and compliance status, if applicable.
(ii)
Conditional Level 2 (Self).
The OSA has achieved the CMMC Status of Conditional Level 2 (Self) if the Level 2 self-assessment results in a POA
M and the POA
M meets all the CMMC Level 2 POA
M requirements listed in § 170.21(a)(2).
(A)
Plan of Action and Milestones.
A Level 2 POA
M is allowed only in accordance with the CMMC POA
M requirements listed in § 170.21.
(B)
POA
M closeout.
The OSA must remediate any NOT MET requirements, must perform a POA
M closeout self-assessment, and must post compliance results to SPRS within 180 days of the CMMC Status Date associated with the Conditional Level 2 (Self). If the POA
M is not successfully closed out within the 180-day timeframe, the Conditional Level 2 (Self) CMMC Status for the information system will expire. If
Conditional Level 2 (Self) CMMC Status expires within the period of performance of a contract, standard contractual remedies will apply, and the OSA will be ineligible for additional awards with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self), or higher requirement, for the information system within the CMMC Assessment Scope until such time as a new CMMC Status is achieved.
(iii)
Final Level 2 (Self).
The OSA has achieved the CMMC Status of Final Level 2 (Self) if the Level 2 self-assessment results in a passing score as defined in § 170.24. This score may be achieved upon initial self-assessment or as the result of a POA
M closeout self-assessment, as applicable.
(iv)
CMMC Status investigation.
The DoD reserves the right to conduct a DCMA DIBCAC assessment of the OSA, as provided for under the 48 CFR 252.204-7020. If the investigative results of a subsequent DCMA DIBCAC assessment show that adherence to the provisions of this part have not been achieved or maintained, these DCMA DIBCAC results will take precedence over any pre-existing CMMC Status. At that time, standard contractual remedies will be available and the OSA will be ineligible for additional awards with CMMC Status requirement of Level 2 (Self), or higher requirement, for the information system within the CMMC Assessment Scope until such time as a new CMMC Status is achieved.
(2)
Affirmation.
Affirmation of the Level 2 (Self) CMMC Status is required for all Level 2 self-assessments at the time of each assessment, and annually thereafter. Affirmation procedures are set forth in § 170.22.
(b)
Contract eligibility.
Prior to award of any contract or subcontract with requirement for CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self), the following two requirements must be met:
(1) The OSA must achieve, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a CMMC Status of either Conditional Level 2 (Self) or Final Level 2 (Self).
(2) The OSA must submit an affirmation of compliance into SPRS, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(c)
Procedures
—(1)
Level 2 self-assessment of the OSA.
The OSA must conduct a Level 2 self-assessment in accordance with NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) and the CMMC Level 2 scoping requirements set forth in §§ 170.19(a) and (c) for the information systems within the CMMC Assessment Scope. The Level 2 self-assessment must be scored in accordance with the CMMC Scoring Methodology described in § 170.24 and the OSA must upload the results into SPRS. If a POA
M exists, a POA
M closeout self-assessment must be performed by the OSA when all NOT MET requirements have been remediated. The POA
M closeout self-assessment must be performed within 180-days of the Conditional CMMC Status Date. Additional guidance can be found in the guidance document listed in paragraph (c) of appendix A to this part.
(2)
Level 2 self-assessment with the use of Cloud Service Provider (CSP).
An OSA may use a cloud environment to process, store, or transmit CUI in performance of a contract or subcontract with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (Self) under the following circumstances:
(i) The CSP product or service offering is FedRAMP Authorized at the FedRAMP Moderate (or higher) baseline in accordance with the FedRAMP Marketplace; or
