My Administration has been committed to giving youths the resources they need to thrive, including by ensuring students feel supported and have opportunities to connect to meaningful mentors. My American Rescue Plan secured a record $130 billion for K-12 schools, putting more teachers, counselors, social workers, and staff in our schools, who are so often our young people's first mentors. And that law gave AmeriCorps funding to support new mentors and volunteers who can serve our communities. Moreover, my Administration created the National Partnership for Student Success, which recruited more than 300,000 tutors and mentors to help young people reach their full potential, as well as student success coaches and postsecondary transition coaches. We also called on colleges and universities to use at least 15 percent of their Federal work study funds to assist their students in serving as mentors and other critical volunteer roles that support our Nation's children and youth.
At the same time, my Administration recognizes the value of mentorship in the workplace, and Registered Apprenticeships not only help provide it, they also produce some of the best workers in the world. That is why I am proud to have worked with labor unions and made historic investments in pre-apprenticeship and Registered Apprenticeship programs that provide the training and skills necessary to get a good job and launch a fulfilling career. My Administration also launched the American Climate Corps to put over 20,000 Americans to work in fast-growing green sectors like clean energy and conservation.
I have often said that we are a great Nation because we are a good people. During National Mentoring Month, we honor all the good people across our Nation, who are helping young people find direction, grow, and tap into our Nation's unlimited possibilities. As so many mentors know, being a mentor can be a transformative and enriching life experience. I encourage every American—whether you are a college student, community leader, or person hoping to make a difference—to explore opportunities to mentor or tutor by visiting americorps.gov/serve and partnershipstudentsuccess.org.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2025 as National Mentoring Month. I call upon Americans across the country to observe this month with mentoring, appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.
Proclamation 10879 of December 31, 2024
Proc. 10879

# National Stalking Awareness Month, 2025By the President of the United States of America
A Proclamation
During National Stalking Awareness Month, we honor the courage and resilience of the millions of people in America who have suffered from stalking and recommit to ensuring every American feels safe and protected from this abuse. And we recommit to building a world where every person can walk through life knowing they are safe, secure, and will be treated with respect.
For the one in three women and one in six men who have endured stalking, the fear it causes can be all-consuming. No matter where it was committed or who it was committed by—at home, at work, online, or by a stranger or a neighbor—stalking can destroy a person's sense of security and safety. And it can have immense consequences on their lives: some have to leave everything behind to flee at a moment's notice or are haunted by their experience forever. It is wrong.
For too long, people refused to talk about stalking and other forms of gender-based violence, leaving survivors feeling alone, isolated, and forgotten. That changed with the passage of the landmark Violence Against Women Act more than 30 years ago—a law I was proud to write and champion as a United States Senator. It helped shine a harsh light on the scourge of gender-based violence in America and ensured that survivors were getting the support they needed. In 2022, I signed a reauthorization of the law, giving survivors of stalking more support and cracking down on perpetrators. It expanded the jurisdiction of Tribal courts to prosecute non-Native perpetrators of stalking and other gender-based violence, while ensuring survivors can bring a civil lawsuit in Federal court against someone who shared intimate images of them online without their consent.
My Administration has taken action to crack down on stalking and gender-based violence in America. We released our Nation's first-ever National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, laying out a strategy to best support survivors, work on prevention, and ensure perpetrators are held accountable. The Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women has continued providing grants to community organizations, prosecutors, and
law enforcement to stop stalking and other gender-based crimes. And to ensure victims have a safe place to call home and rebuild their lives, the Department of Housing and Urban Development has provided tens of thousands of emergency housing vouchers. Furthermore, I established the White House Task Force to Address Online Harassment and Abuse to make sure we are stopping gender-based violence committed online.
My father used to say that one of the greatest sins a person could commit is the abuse of power—and that is fundamentally what stalking is. During National Stalking Awareness Month, we recommit to supporting survivors of stalking and reaffirm that harassment, abuse, and violence have no place in America.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2025 as National Stalking Awareness Month. I call on all Americans to speak out against stalking and to support the efforts of advocates, courts, service providers, and law enforcement to help those who are targeted and send the message to perpetrators that these crimes will not go unpunished.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.
Title 3-The President
Executive Orders
EXECUTIVE ORDERS
Executive Order 14115 of February 1, 2024
EO 14115

# Imposing Certain Sanctions on Persons Undermining Peace, Security, and Stability in the West Bank
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), section 212(f) and section 215(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 8 U.S.C. 1185(a)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that the situation in the West Bank—in particular high levels of extremist settler violence, forced displacement of people and villages, and property destruction—has reached intolerable levels and constitutes a serious threat to the peace, security, and stability of the West Bank and Gaza, Israel, and the broader Middle East region. These actions undermine the foreign policy objectives of the United States, including the viability of a two-state solution and ensuring Israelis and Palestinians can attain equal measures of security, prosperity, and freedom. They also undermine the security of Israel and have the potential to lead to broader regional destabilization across the Middle East, threatening United States personnel and interests. For these reasons, these actions constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with that threat.
Accordingly, I hereby order:
Section 1
. All property and interests in property that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States person, including any foreign branch, of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:
(a) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:
(A) actions—including directing, enacting, implementing, enforcing, or failing to enforce policies—that threaten the peace, security, or stability of the West Bank; or
(B) planning, ordering, otherwise directing, or participating in any of the following actions affecting the West Bank:
(1) an act of violence or threat of violence targeting civilians;
(2) efforts to place civilians in reasonable fear of violence with the purpose or effect of necessitating a change of residence to avoid such violence;
(3) property destruction; or
(4) seizure or dispossession of property by private actors;
(ii) to be or have been a leader or official of:
(A) an entity, including any government entity, that has engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities described in subsections (a) or (b) of this section related to the leader's or official's tenure; or
(B) an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order as a result of activities relating to the leader's or official's tenure;
(iii) to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any person blocked pursuant to this order; or
(iv) to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person blocked pursuant to this order; or
(b) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury:
(i) to have committed or have attempted to commit, to pose a significant risk of committing, or to have participated in training to commit acts of terrorism affecting the West Bank; or
(ii) to be a leader or official of an entity sanctioned pursuant to subsection (b)(i) of this section.
Sec. 2
. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order apply except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted before the date of this order.
Sec. 3
. The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:
(a) the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and
(b) the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person.
Sec. 4
. (a) The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the criteria in section 1 of this order would be detrimental to the interests of the
United States, and the entry of such persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person's entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person's entry would further important United States law enforcement objectives.
(b) The Secretary of State shall implement this order as it applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.
(c) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may establish.
(d) Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act Sanctions).
Sec. 5
. (a) Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
(b) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.
Sec. 6
. I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 1 of this order.
Sec. 7
. For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;
(b) the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States;
(c) the term “person” means an individual or entity;
(d) the term “United States person” means any United States citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches), or any person in the United States; and
(e) the term “terrorism” means an activity that:
(i) involves a violent act or an act dangerous to human life, property, or infrastructure; and
(ii) appears to be intended:
(A) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population;
(B) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or
(C) to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, kidnapping, or hostage-taking.
Sec. 8
. For those persons whose property and interests in property are blocked or affected by this order who might have a constitutional presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer funds and other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures ineffectual. I therefore determine that for these measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made pursuant to this order.
Sec. 9
. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this order. The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department of the Treasury. All executive departments and agencies of the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this order.
Sec. 10
. Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United Nations (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and related organizations) by employees, grantees, and contractors thereof.
Sec. 11
. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, is authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 12
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 1, 2024.
Executive Order 14116 of February 21, 2024
EO 14116

# Amending Regulations Relating to the Safeguarding of Vessels, Harbors, Ports, and Waterfront Facilities of the United States
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 1 of title II of the Act of June 15, 1917, as amended (46 U.S.C. 70051) (the “Act”), and in addition to the finding in Executive Order 10173 of October 18, 1950, and any other declaration or finding in force under section 1 of the Act, I find that the security of the United States is endangered by reason of disturbances in the international relations of the United States that exist as a result of persistent and increasingly sophisticated malicious cyber campaigns against the United States, and that such disturbances continue to endanger such relations, and hereby order that:
Section 1
.
Amendments.
Part 6 of title 33 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended by:
(a) Amending section 6.01-3 to read as follows:
“
6.01-3.
Captain of the Port. Captain of the Port,
as used in this part, means the officer of the Coast Guard, under the command of a District Commander, so designated by the Commandant for the purpose of giving immediate direction to Coast Guard law enforcement activities within the Captain of the Port's assigned area. In addition, the District Commander will be Captain of the Port with respect to the remaining areas in the District not assigned to officers designated by the Commandant as Captain of the Port.”;
(b) Amending section 6.01-5 to read as follows:
“
6.01-5.
Security zone. Security zone,
as used in this part, means all areas of land, water, or land and water, which are so designated by the Captain of the Port for such time as the Captain of the Port deems necessary to prevent damage or injury to any vessel or waterfront facility, to safeguard ports, harbors, territories, or waters of the United States or to secure the observance of the rights and obligations of the United States.”;
(c) Adding after the existing section 6.01-6 the following new section:
“
6.01-7.
Damage. Damage,
as used in this part in connection with any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure, has the meaning ascribed to “damage” under 18 U.S.C. 1030(e)(8).”;
(d) Adding after the new section 6.01-7 the following new section:
“
6.01-8.
Cyber incident. Cyber incident,
as used in this part, has the meaning ascribed to an “incident” under 44 U.S.C. 3552(b)(2).”;
(e) Amending section 6.04-5 to read as follows:
“
6.04-5.
Preventing access of persons, articles, or things, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure, to vessels, or waterfront facilities.
The Captain of the Port may prevent any person, article, or thing, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure, from boarding or being taken or placed on board any vessel or entering or being taken into or upon or
placed in or upon any waterfront facility whenever it appears to the Captain of the Port that such action is necessary in order to secure such vessel from damage or injury or to prevent damage or injury to any vessel, or waterfront facility, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure therein or thereon, or waters of the United States, or to secure the observances of rights and obligations of the United States.”;
(f) Amending section 6.04-6 to read as follows:
“
6.04-6.
Establishing security zones; prohibitions with respect thereto.
The Captain of a Port may establish security zones subject to the terms and conditions specified in § 6.01-5. No person or vessel shall enter a security zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port. No person shall board or take or place any article or thing, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure, on board any vessel in a security zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port. No person shall take or place any article or thing upon any waterfront facility in any such zone without such permission.”;
(g) Amending section 6.04-7 to read as follows:
“
6.04-7.
Visitation, search, and removal.
As consistent with law, the Captain of the Port may cause to be inspected and searched at any time any vessel, waterfront facility, or security zone, or any person, article, or thing, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure thereon or therein, within the jurisdiction of the United States, may place guards upon any such vessel, waterfront facility, or security zone and may remove therefrom any and all persons, articles, or things, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure, not specifically authorized by the Captain of the Port to go or remain thereon or therein.”;
(h) Amending section 6.04-8 to read as follows:
“
6.04-8.
Possession and control of vessels.
The Captain of the Port may supervise and control the movement of any vessel and shall take full or partial possession or control of any vessel or any part thereof, within the territorial waters of the United States under the Captain of the Port's jurisdiction, whenever it appears to the Captain of the Port that such action is necessary in order to secure such vessel from damage or injury, including damage to any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure thereon or therein, or to prevent damage or injury to any vessel or waterfront facility or waters of the United States, or to secure the observance of rights and obligations of the United States.”;
(i) Amending section 6.10-7 to read as follows:
“
6.10-7.
Identification credentials.
The identification credential to be issued by the Commandant shall be known as the Coast Guard Port Security Card, and the form of such credential, and the conditions and the manner of its issuance shall be as prescribed by the Commandant after consultation with the Secretary of Labor. The Commandant shall not issue a Coast Guard Port Security Card unless the Commandant is satisfied that the character and habits of life of the applicant therefor are such as to authorize the belief that the presence of such individual on board a vessel or within a waterfront facility would not be inimical to the security of the United States. The Commandant shall revoke and require the surrender of
a Coast Guard Port Security Card when the Commandant is no longer satisfied that the holder is entitled thereto. The Commandant may recognize for the same purpose such other credentials as the Commandant may designate in lieu of the Coast Guard Port Security Card.”;
(j) Amending section 6.14-1 to read as follows:
“
6.14-1.
Safety measures.
The Commandant, in order to achieve the purposes of this part, may prescribe such conditions and restrictions relating to the safety of waterfront facilities and vessels in port as the Commandant finds to be necessary under existing circumstances. Such conditions and restrictions may extend, but shall not be limited to, the inspection, operation, maintenance, guarding, and manning of, and fire-prevention measures for, such vessels and waterfront facilities. Such conditions and restrictions relating to the safety of waterfront facilities and vessels in port may also extend to measures the Commandant finds to be necessary under existing circumstances to prevent, detect, assess, and remediate an actual or threatened cyber incident that could cause damage or injury to vessels, harbors, ports, or waterfront facilities.”;
(k) Amending section 6.14-2 to read as follows:
“
6.14-2.
Condition of waterfront facility a danger to vessel.
Whenever the Captain of the Port finds that the mooring of any vessel to a wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure would endanger such vessel, or any other vessel, or the harbor or any facility therein by reason of conditions existing on or about such wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure, including inadequate guard service, insufficient lighting, fire hazards, inadequate fire protection, unsafe machinery, internal disturbance, damage to any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure, actual or threatened cyber incident, or unsatisfactory operation, the Captain of the Port may prevent the mooring of any vessel to such wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure until the unsatisfactory condition or conditions so found are corrected, and the Captain of the Port may, for the same reasons, after any vessel has been moored, compel the shifting of such vessel from any such wharf, dock, pier, or other waterfront structure.”;
(l) Amending section 6.16-1 to read as follows:
“
6.16-1.
Reporting of sabotage, subversive activity, or an actual or threatened cyber incident.
Evidence of sabotage, subversive activity, or an actual or threatened cyber incident involving or endangering any vessel, harbor, port, or waterfront facility, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure thereon or therein, shall be reported immediately to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (for any cyber incident), and the Captain of the Port, or to their respective representatives.”;
(m) Amending section 6.16-3 to read as follows:
“
6.16-3.
Precautions against sabotage.
The master, owner, agent, or operator of a vessel or waterfront facility shall take all necessary precautions to protect the vessel, waterfront facility, and cargo, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure thereon or therein, from sabotage.”; and
(n) Amending section 6.19-1 to read as follows:
“
6.19-1.
Primary responsibility.
Nothing contained in this part shall be construed as relieving the masters, owners, operators, and agents of vessels or
other waterfront facilities from their primary responsibility for the protection and security of such vessels or waterfront facilities, including any data, information, network, program, system, or other digital infrastructure thereon or therein.”.
Sec. 2
.
Coordination.
In enforcing regulations amended by this order, the Commandant shall coordinate with the Department of Justice and other relevant executive departments and agencies, as appropriate under applicable law or policy.
Sec. 3
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 21, 2024.
Executive Order 14117 of February 28, 2024
EO 14117

# Preventing Access to Americans' Bulk Sensitive Personal Data and United States Government-Related Data by Countries of Concern
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13873 of May 15, 2019 (Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply Chain), and further addressed with additional measures in Executive Order 14034 of June 9, 2021 (Protecting Americans' Sensitive Data from Foreign Adversaries). The continuing effort of certain countries of concern to access Americans' sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or substantial part outside the United States, to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. Access to Americans' bulk sensitive personal data or United States
Government-related data increases the ability of countries of concern to engage in a wide range of malicious activities. Countries of concern can rely on advanced technologies, including artificial intelligence (AI), to analyze and manipulate bulk sensitive personal data to engage in espionage, influence, kinetic, or cyber operations or to identify other potential strategic advantages over the United States. Countries of concern can also use access to bulk data sets to fuel the creation and refinement of AI and other advanced technologies, thereby improving their ability to exploit the underlying data and exacerbating the national security and foreign policy threats. In addition, access to some categories of sensitive personal data linked to populations and locations associated with the Federal Government—including the military—regardless of volume, can be used to reveal insights about those populations and locations that threaten national security. The growing exploitation of Americans' sensitive personal data threatens the development of an international technology ecosystem that protects our security, privacy, and human rights.
Accordingly, to address this threat and to take further steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13873, it is hereby ordered that:
Section 1
.
Policy.
It is the policy of the United States to restrict access by countries of concern to Americans' bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data when such access would pose an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States. At the same time, the United States continues to support open, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure flows of data across borders, as well as maintaining vital consumer, economic, scientific, and trade relationships that the United States has with other countries.
The continuing effort by countries of concern to access Americans' bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data threatens the national security and foreign policy of the United States. Such countries' governments may seek to access and use sensitive personal data in a manner that is not in accordance with democratic values, safeguards for privacy, and other human rights and freedoms. Such countries' approach stands in sharp contrast to the practices of democracies with respect to sensitive personal data and principles reflected in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Declaration on Government Access to Personal Data Held by Private Sector Entities. Unrestricted transfers of Americans' bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data to such countries of concern may therefore enable them to exploit such data for a variety of nefarious purposes, including to engage in malicious cyber-enabled activities. Countries of concern can use their access to Americans' bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data to track and build profiles on United States individuals, including Federal employees and contractors, for illicit purposes, including blackmail and espionage. Access to Americans' bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data by countries of concern through data brokerages, third-party vendor agreements, employment agreements, investment agreements, or other such arrangements poses particular and unacceptable risks to our national security given that these arrangements often can provide countries of concern with direct and unfettered access to Americans' bulk sensitive personal data. Countries of concern can use access to United States persons' bulk sensitive personal data and United
States Government-related data to collect information on activists, academics, journalists, dissidents, political figures, or members of non-governmental organizations or marginalized communities in order to intimidate such persons; curb dissent or political opposition; otherwise limit freedoms of expression, peaceful assembly, or association; or enable other forms of suppression of civil liberties.
This risk of access to Americans' bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data is not limited to direct access by countries of concern. Entities owned by, and entities or individuals controlled by or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of, a country of concern may enable the government of a country of concern to indirectly access such data. For example, a country of concern may have cyber, national security, or intelligence laws that, without sufficient legal safeguards, obligate such entities and individuals to provide that country's intelligence services access to Americans' bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data.
These risks may be exacerbated when countries of concern use bulk sensitive personal data to develop AI capabilities and algorithms that, in turn, enable the use of large datasets in increasingly sophisticated and effective ways to the detriment of United States national security. Countries of concern can use AI to target United States persons for espionage or blackmail by, for example, recognizing patterns across multiple unrelated datasets to identify potential individuals whose links to the Federal Government would be otherwise obscured in a single dataset.
While aspects of this threat have been addressed in previous executive actions, such as Executive Order 13694 of April 1, 2015 (Blocking the Property of Certain Persons Engaging in Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities), as amended, additional steps need to be taken to address this threat.
At the same time, the United States is committed to promoting an open, global, interoperable, reliable, and secure Internet; protecting human rights online and offline; supporting a vibrant, global economy by promoting cross-border data flows required to enable international commerce and trade; and facilitating open investment. To ensure that the United States continues to meet these important policy objectives, this order does not authorize the imposition of generalized data localization requirements to store Americans' bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data within the United States or to locate computing facilities used to process Americans' bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data within the United States. This order also does not broadly prohibit United States persons from conducting commercial transactions, including exchanging financial and other data as part of the sale of commercial goods and services, with entities and individuals located in or subject to the control, direction, or jurisdiction of countries of concern, or impose measures aimed at a broader decoupling of the substantial consumer, economic, scientific, and trade relationships that the United States has with other countries. In addition, my Administration has made commitments to increase public access to the results of taxpayer-funded scientific research, the sharing and interoperability of electronic health information, and patient access to their data. The national security restrictions established in
this order are specific, carefully calibrated actions to minimize the risks associated with access to bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data by countries of concern while minimizing disruption to commercial activity. This order shall be implemented consistent with these policy objectives, including by tailoring any regulations issued and actions taken pursuant to this order to address the national security threat posed by access to Americans' bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data by countries of concern.
Sec. 2
.
Prohibited and Restricted Transactions.
(a) To assist in addressing the national emergency described in this order, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, shall issue, subject to public notice and comment, regulations that prohibit or otherwise restrict United States persons from engaging in any acquisition, holding, use, transfer, transportation, or exportation of, or dealing in, any property in which a foreign country or national thereof has any interest (transaction), where the transaction:
(i) involves bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data, as further defined by regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to this section;
(ii) is a member of a class of transactions that has been determined by the Attorney General, in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to this section, to pose an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States because the transactions may enable countries of concern or covered persons to access bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data in a manner that contributes to the national emergency described in this order;
(iii) was initiated, is pending, or will be completed after the effective date of the regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to this section;
(iv) does not qualify for an exemption provided in, or is not authorized by a license issued pursuant to, the regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to this section; and
(v) is not, as defined by regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to this section, ordinarily incident to and part of the provision of financial services, including banking, capital markets, and financial insurance services, or required for compliance with any Federal statutory or regulatory requirements, including any regulations, guidance, or orders implementing those requirements.
(b) The Attorney General, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, is authorized to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all other powers granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this order. Executive departments and agencies (agencies) are directed to take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement the provisions of this order.
(c) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, and in consultation
with the heads of relevant agencies, shall publish the proposed rule described in subsection (a) of this section for notice and comment. This proposed rule shall:
(i) identify classes of transactions that meet the criteria specified in subsection (a)(ii) of this section that are to be prohibited (prohibited transactions);
(ii) identify classes of transactions that meet the criteria specified in subsection (a)(ii) of this section and for which the Attorney General determines that security requirements established by the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, in accordance with the process described in subsection (d) of this section, adequately mitigate the risk of access by countries of concern or covered persons to bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data (restricted transactions);
(iii) identify, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, countries of concern and, as appropriate, classes of covered persons for the purposes of this order;
(iv) establish, as appropriate, mechanisms to provide additional clarity to persons affected by this order and any regulations implementing this order (including by designations of covered persons and licensing decisions);
(v) establish a process to issue (including to modify or rescind), in concurrence with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, and in consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies, as appropriate, licenses authorizing transactions that would otherwise be prohibited transactions or restricted transactions;
(vi) further define the terms identified in section 7 of this order and any other terms used in this order or any regulations implementing this order;
(vii) address, as appropriate, coordination with other United States Government entities, such as the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury, the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Department of Commerce, and other entities implementing relevant programs, including those implementing Executive Order 13873; Executive Order 14034; and Executive Order 13913 of April 4, 2020 (Establishing the Committee for the Assessment of Foreign Participation in the United States Telecommunications Services Sector); and
(viii) address the need for, as appropriate, recordkeeping and reporting of transactions to inform investigative, enforcement, and regulatory efforts.
(d) The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, shall, in coordination with the Attorney General and in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, propose, seek public comment on, and publish security requirements that address the unacceptable risk posed by restricted transactions, as identified by the Attorney General pursuant to this section. These requirements shall be based on the Cybersecurity and Privacy Frameworks developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
(i) The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, shall, in coordination with the Attorney General, issue any interpretive guidance regarding the security requirements.
(ii) The Attorney General shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security acting through the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, issue enforcement guidance regarding the security requirements.
(e) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Attorney General, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including promulgating rules, regulations, standards, and requirements; issuing interpretive guidance; and employing all other powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes described in subsection (d) of this section.
(f) In exercising the authority delegated in subsection (b) of this section, the Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, may, in addition to the rulemaking directed in subsection (c) of this section, propose one or more regulations to further implement this section, including to identify additional classes of prohibited transactions; to identify additional classes of restricted transactions; with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, to identify new or remove existing countries of concern and, as appropriate, classes of covered persons for the purposes of this order; and to establish a mechanism for the Attorney General to monitor whether restricted transactions comply with the security requirements established under subsection (d) of this section.
(g) Any proposed regulations implementing this section:
(i) shall reflect consideration of the nature of the class of transaction involving bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data, the volume of bulk sensitive personal data involved in the transaction, and other factors, as appropriate;
(ii) shall establish thresholds and due diligence requirements for entities to use in assessing whether a transaction is a prohibited transaction or a restricted transaction;
(iii) shall not establish generalized data localization requirements to store bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data within the United States or to locate computing facilities used to process bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data within the United States;
(iv) shall account for any legal obligations applicable to the United States Government relating to public access to the results of taxpayer-funded scientific research, the sharing and interoperability of electronic health information, and patient access to their data; and
(v) shall not address transactions to the extent that they involve types of human 'omic data other than human genomic data before the submission of the report described in section 6 of this order.
(h) The prohibitions promulgated pursuant to this section apply except to the extent provided by law, including by statute or in regulations, orders, directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and
notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit granted prior to the effective date of the applicable regulations directed by this order.
(i) Any transaction or other activity that has the purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any of the prohibitions promulgated pursuant to this section is prohibited.
(j) Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions promulgated pursuant to this section is prohibited.
(k) In regulations issued by the Attorney General under this section, the Attorney General may prohibit United States persons from knowingly directing transactions if such transactions would be prohibited transactions under regulations issued pursuant to this order if engaged in by a United States person.
(l) The Attorney General may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of the authorities conferred on the Attorney General pursuant to this section within the Department of Justice. The Secretary of Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law, redelegate any of the authorities conferred on the Secretary of Homeland Security pursuant to this section within the Department of Homeland Security.
(m) The Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to the Congress related to this order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).
Sec. 3
.
Protecting Sensitive Personal Data.
(a) Access to bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data by countries of concern can be enabled through the transmission of data via network infrastructure that is subject to the jurisdiction or control of countries of concern. The risk of access to this data by countries of concern can be, and sometime is, exacerbated where the data transits a submarine cable that is owned or operated by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of a country of concern, or that connects to the United States and terminates in the jurisdiction of a country of concern. Additionally, the same risk of access by a country of concern is further exacerbated in instances where a submarine cable is designed, built, and operated for the express purpose of transferring data, including bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data, to a specific data center located in a foreign jurisdiction. To address this threat, the Committee for the Assessment of Foreign Participation in the United States Telecommunications Services Sector (Committee) shall, to the extent consistent with its existing authority and applicable law:
(i) prioritize, for purposes of and in reliance on the process set forth in section 6 of Executive Order 13913, the initiation of reviews of existing licenses for submarine cable systems that are owned or operated by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of a country of concern, or that terminate in the jurisdiction of a country of concern;
(ii) issue policy guidance, in consultation with the Committee's Advisors as defined in section 3(d) of Executive Order 13913, regarding the Committee's reviews of license applications and existing licenses, including
the assessment of third-party risks regarding access to data by countries of concern; and
(iii) address, on an ongoing basis, the national security and law enforcement risks related to access by countries of concern to bulk sensitive personal data described in this order that may be presented by any new application or existing license reviewed by the Committee to land or operate a submarine cable system, including by updating the Memorandum of Understanding required under section 11 of Executive Order 13913 and by revising the Committee's standard mitigation measures, with the approval of the Committee's Advisors, which may include, as appropriate, any of the security requirements contemplated by section 2(d) of this order.
(b) Entities in the United States healthcare market can access bulk sensitive personal data, including personal health data and human genomic data, through partnerships and agreements with United States healthcare providers and research institutions. Even if such data is anonymized, pseudonymized, or de-identified, advances in technology, combined with access by countries of concern to large data sets, increasingly enable countries of concern that access this data to re-identify or de-anonymize data, which may reveal the exploitable health information of United States persons. While the United States supports open scientific data and sample sharing to accelerate research and development through international cooperation and collaboration, the following additional steps must be taken to protect United States persons' sensitive personal health data and human genomic data from the threat identified in this order:
(i) The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Director of the National Science Foundation shall consider taking steps, including issuing regulations, guidance, or orders, as appropriate and consistent with the legal authorities authorizing relevant Federal assistance programs, to prohibit the provision of assistance that enables access by countries of concern or covered persons to United States persons' bulk sensitive personal data, including personal health data and human genomic data, or to impose mitigation measures with respect to such assistance, which may be consistent with the security requirements adopted under section 2(d) of this order, on the recipients of Federal assistance to address this threat. The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Director of the National Science Foundation shall, in consultation with each other, develop and publish guidance to assist United States research entities in ensuring protection of their bulk sensitive personal data.
(ii) Within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Director of the National Science Foundation shall jointly submit a report to the President through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA) detailing their progress in implementing this subsection.
(c) Entities in the data brokerage industry enable access to bulk sensitive personal data and United States Government-related data by countries of concern and covered persons. These entities pose a particular risk of contributing to the national emergency described in this order because they routinely engage in the collection, assembly, evaluation, and dissemination
of bulk sensitive personal data and of the subset of United States Government-related data regarding United States consumers. The Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is encouraged to consider taking steps, consistent with CFPB's existing legal authorities, to address this aspect of the threat and to enhance compliance with Federal consumer protection law, including by continuing to pursue the rulemaking proposals that CFPB identified at the September 2023 Small Business Advisory Panel for Consumer Reporting Rulemaking.
Sec. 4
.
Assessing the National Security Risks Arising from Prior Transfers of United States Persons' Bulk Sensitive Personal Data.
Within 120 days of the effective date of the regulations issued pursuant to section 2(c) of this order, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of relevant agencies, shall recommend to the APNSA appropriate actions to detect, assess, and mitigate national security risks arising from prior transfers of United States persons' bulk sensitive personal data to countries of concern. Within 150 days of the effective date of the regulations issued pursuant to section 2(c) of this order, the APNSA shall review these recommendations and, as appropriate, consult with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of relevant agencies on implementing the recommendations consistent with applicable law.
Sec. 5
.
Report to the President.
(a) Within 1 year of the effective date of the regulations issued pursuant to section 2(c) of this order, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit a report to the President through the APNSA assessing, to the extent practicable:
(i) the effectiveness of the measures imposed under this order in addressing threats to the national security of the United States described in this order; and
(ii) the economic impact of the implementation of this order, including on the international competitiveness of United States industry.
(b) In preparing the report described in subsection (a) of this section, the Attorney General shall solicit and consider public comments concerning the economic impact of this order.
Sec. 6
.
Assessing Risks Associated with Human 'omic Data.
Within 120 days of the date of this order, the APNSA, the Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Director of the Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response Policy, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Director of the National Science Foundation, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall submit a report to the President, through the APNSA, assessing the risks and benefits of regulating transactions involving types of human 'omic data other than human genomic data, such as human proteomic data, human epigenomic data, and human metabolomic data, and recommending the extent to which such transactions should be regulated pursuant to section 2 of this order. This report and recommendation shall consider the risks to United States persons and national security, as well as the economic and scientific costs of regulating
transactions that provide countries of concern or covered persons access to these data types.
Sec. 7
.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) The term “access” means logical or physical access, including the ability to obtain, read, copy, decrypt, edit, divert, release, affect, alter the state of, or otherwise view or receive, in any form, including through information technology systems, cloud computing platforms, networks, security systems, equipment, or software.
(b) The term “bulk” means an amount of sensitive personal data that meets or exceeds a threshold over a set period of time, as specified in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of this order.
(c) The term “country of concern” means any foreign government that, as determined by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2(c)(iii) or 2(f) of this order, has engaged in a long-term pattern or serious instances of conduct significantly adverse to the national security of the United States or the security and safety of United States persons, and poses a significant risk of exploiting bulk sensitive personal data or United States Government-related data to the detriment of the national security of the United States or the security and safety of United States persons, as specified in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of this order.
(d) The term “covered person” means an entity owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of a country of concern; a foreign person who is an employee or contractor of such an entity; a foreign person who is an employee or contractor of a country of concern; a foreign person who is primarily resident in the territorial jurisdiction of a country of concern; or any person designated by the Attorney General as being owned or controlled by or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of a country of concern, as acting on behalf of or purporting to act on behalf of a country of concern or other covered person, or as knowingly causing or directing, directly or indirectly, a violation of this order or any regulations implementing this order.
(e) The term “covered personal identifiers” means, as determined by the Attorney General in regulations issued pursuant to section 2 of this order, specifically listed classes of personally identifiable data that are reasonably linked to an individual, and that—whether in combination with each other, with other sensitive personal data, or with other data that is disclosed by a transacting party pursuant to the transaction and that makes the personally identifiable data exploitable by a country of concern—could be used to identify an individual from a data set or link data across multiple data sets to an individual. The term “covered personal identifiers” does not include:
(i) demographic or contact data that is linked only to another piece of demographic or contact data (such as first and last name, birth date, birthplace, zip code, residential street or postal address, phone number, and email address and similar public account identifiers); or
(ii) a network-based identifier, account-authentication data, or call-detail data that is linked only to another network-based identifier, account-authentication data, or call-detail data for the provision of telecommunications, networking, or similar services.
(f) The term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization.
(g) The term “foreign person” means any person that is not a United States person.
(h) The term “human genomic data” refers to data representing the nucleic acid sequences that constitute the entire set or a subset of the genetic instructions found in a cell.
(i) The term “human 'omic data” means data generated from humans that characterizes or quantifies human biological molecule(s), such as human genomic data, epigenomic data, proteomic data, transcriptomic data, microbiomic data, or metabolomic data, as further defined by regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of this order, which may be informed by the report described in section 6 of this order.
(j) The term “person” means an individual or entity.
(k) The term “relevant agencies” means the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Office of the National Cyber Director, the Office of Management and Budget, the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Communications Commission, and any other agency or office that the Attorney General determines appropriate.
(l) The term “sensitive personal data” means, to the extent consistent with applicable law including sections 203(b)(1) and (b)(3) of IEEPA, covered personal identifiers, geolocation and related sensor data, biometric identifiers, human 'omic data, personal health data, personal financial data, or any combination thereof, as further defined in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of this order, and that could be exploited by a country of concern to harm United States national security if that data is linked or linkable to any identifiable United States individual or to a discrete and identifiable group of United States individuals. The term “sensitive personal data” does not include:
(i) data that is a matter of public record, such as court records or other government records, that is lawfully and generally available to the public;
(ii) personal communications that are within the scope of section 203(b)(1) of IEEPA; or
(iii) information or informational materials within the scope of section 203(b)(3) of IEEPA.
(m) The term “United States Government-related data” means sensitive personal data that, regardless of volume, the Attorney General determines poses a heightened risk of being exploited by a country of concern to harm United States national security and that:
(i) a transacting party identifies as being linked or linkable to categories of current or recent former employees or contractors, or former senior officials, of the Federal Government, including the military, as specified in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of this order;
(ii) is linked to categories of data that could be used to identify current or recent former employees or contractors, or former senior officials, of the Federal Government, including the military, as specified in regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant to section 2 of this order; or
(iii) is linked or linkable to certain sensitive locations, the geographical areas of which will be specified publicly, that are controlled by the Federal Government, including the military.
(n) The term “United States person” means any United States citizen, national, or lawful permanent resident; any individual admitted to the United States as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158; any entity organized solely under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign branches); or any person in the United States.
Sec. 8
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the conduct of the official business of the United States Government by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof, or transactions conducted pursuant to a grant, contract, or other agreement entered into with the United States Government.
(c) Any disputes that may arise among agencies during the consultation processes described in this order may be resolved pursuant to the interagency process described in National Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021 (Renewing the National Security Council System), or any successor document.
(d) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(e) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 28, 2024.
Executive Order 14118 of March 4, 2024
EO 14118

# Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Situation in Zimbabwe
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) (NEA), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code,
I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, find that the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order 13288 of March 6, 2003, with respect to the actions and policies of certain members of the Government of Zimbabwe and other persons to undermine Zimbabwe's democratic processes or institutions, as relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order 13391 of November 22, 2005, and as expanded by Executive Order 13469 of July 25, 2008, should no longer be in effect. Although I continue to be concerned with the situation in Zimbabwe, particularly with respect to acts of violence and other human rights abuses against political opponents and with respect to public corruption, including misuse of public authority, the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order 13288 is no longer needed. Accordingly, I hereby terminate the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13288, and revoke that order, Executive Order 13391, and Executive Order 13469, and further order:
Section 1
. Pursuant to section 202(a) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1622(a)), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13288, as relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order 13391, and as expanded by Executive Order 13469, shall not affect any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or determined as of the date of this order, any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to the date of this order, or any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the date of this order.
Sec. 2
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 4, 2024.
Executive Order 14119 of March 6, 2024
EO 14119

# Scaling and Expanding the Use of Registered Apprenticeships in Industries and the Federal Government and Promoting Labor-Management Forums
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
My Administration's Investing in America agenda includes a once-in-a-generation investment in our Nation's infrastructure. This agenda is also driving the creation of well-paying jobs and growing the economy sustainably and equitably, and it will continue to do so for decades to come. To fully realize the benefits of these investments, students and workers at all stages of life need equitable access to education and training for the good jobs in their communities.
Critical to achieving these goals is promoting Registered Apprenticeships, as described in title 29, parts 29 and 30, of the Code of Federal Regulations, which provide substantial benefits to both workers and employers. As the Nation's largest employer and procurer of goods and services, the Federal Government can be a model for the use and promotion of skills-based hiring, such as the use of Registered Apprenticeships, which reduces barriers to employment and attracts a diverse workforce to meet our Nation's critical needs. My Administration has made strengthening and empowering the Federal workforce a management priority. As a part of its overall strategy to hire, retain, and develop the people needed to accomplish executive department and agency (agency) missions and to create equitable, transparent, and transferable career-development pathways, the Federal Government can scale and expand Registered Apprenticeship programs to modernize and broaden avenues to Federal jobs, thereby improving access to opportunities for underserved workers.
Additionally, Labor-Management Forums provide an opportunity for managers, employees, and employees' union representatives to discuss how Federal Government operations can promote satisfactory labor relations and improve the productivity and effectiveness of the Federal Government. Labor-Management Forums, as complements to the existing collective bargaining process, allow managers and employees to collaborate in order to continue to deliver the highest quality goods and services to the American people.
It is the policy of my Administration to promote Registered Apprenticeships to meet employer needs while investing in workers' skills; reducing employment barriers; and promoting job quality, equity, inclusion, and accessibility for the benefit of the Federal Government and the Nation. Further, it is the policy of my Administration to establish cooperative and productive labor-management relations throughout the executive branch.
Sec. 2
.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) The term “Registered Apprenticeship” means an industry-driven career pathway through which employers can develop and prepare their future workforces and individuals can obtain paid training, work experience,
progressive wage increases, classroom instruction, and a portable, nationally recognized credential. A Registered Apprenticeship must meet the requirements for registration as set forth in 29 CFR parts 29 and 30.
(b) The term “Pre-Apprenticeship” has the meaning set forth in 29 CFR 30.2.
(c) The term “Labor-Management Forum” means a nonadversarial forum for managers, employees, and employees' union representatives to discuss how Federal Government operations can promote satisfactory labor relations and improve the productivity and effectiveness of the Federal Government.
(d) The term “agencies” means the Department of State, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the Department of the Interior, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Energy, the Department of Education, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Homeland Security, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of Management and Budget, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Council on Environmental Quality, the Office of National Drug Control Policy, the Office of the National Cyber Director, the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the General Services Administration, and the Corporation for National and Community Service.
(e) The term “participating agencies” means agencies led by the heads of agencies listed in section 3(b) of this order.
(f) The term “interested agencies” means agencies as defined in subsection (d) of this section, the heads of which are not listed in section 3(b) of this order but that are interested in expanding the use of Registered Apprenticeships by either adding Registered Apprenticeship criteria to grants or contracts or including Registered Apprenticeship career opportunities within their agency.
(g) The term “Labor-Management Forum agencies” means all agencies subject to chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code.
Sec. 3
.
Registered Apprenticeship Interagency Working Group.
(a) There is established within the Executive Office of the President the Registered Apprenticeship Interagency Working Group (Working Group). The function of the Working Group is to coordinate policy development with regard to Registered Apprenticeships and the effective implementation of this order. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of the National Economic Council, and the Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council shall serve as Co-Chairs of the Working Group. The Secretary of Labor and the Director of OPM shall serve as Vice Chairs of the Working Group.
(b) In addition to the Co-Chairs and Vice Chairs, the Working Group shall consist of the following members:
(i) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(ii) the Secretary of Defense;
(iii) the Secretary of the Interior;
(iv) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(v) the Secretary of Commerce;
(vi) the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
(vii) the Secretary of Transportation;
(viii) the Secretary of Energy;
(ix) the Secretary of Education;
(x) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;
(xi) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(xii) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;
(xiii) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
(xiv) the Assistant to the President and Director of the Gender Policy Council;
(xv) the National Cyber Director;
(xvi) the Director of the National Science Foundation;
(xvii) the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
(xviii) the Administrator of General Services; and
(xix) the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
The Co-Chairs may from time to time invite heads of interested agencies to participate in the Working Group.
(c) The Working Group shall support the implementation of this order by providing guidance and technical assistance to agencies.
(d) The Working Group shall submit an initial report to the President within 180 days of the date of this order. This report shall contain:
(i) initial findings and recommendations on potential opportunities for Registered Apprenticeship programs at participating and interested agencies, including an assessment of the need for new hiring and promotion authorities;
(ii) initial findings and recommendations on the promotion of hiring and career advancement in the Federal Government for individuals who have completed a Registered Apprenticeship;
(iii) an assessment of how Registered Apprenticeships may enable agencies to address hiring needs and improve employee retention for roles that are important to the mission of participating agencies and the operations of the Federal Government; and
(iv) an assessment of how Registered Apprenticeships may expand equity and accessibility and provide pathways into and up through Federal employment for individuals in underserved communities.
(e) The Working Group shall assist agencies, consistent with applicable law, in promoting and utilizing Registered Apprenticeships in Federal grant
programs and procurement as described in section 4 of this order. To do so, the Working Group:
(i) may consult with stakeholders from industry, education, labor, and other areas of society to assess demand for Registered Apprenticeships in specific occupations and sectors identified by the Working Group;
(ii) shall review available data provided by the Department of Labor and other relevant agencies on a periodic basis to evaluate the prevalence and growth of Registered Apprenticeships in specific occupations and sectors identified by the Working Group;
(iii) shall encourage the use of common reporting criteria to support agency data collection and measurement of the utilization of Registered Apprenticeships in grants and procurement, including, where permissible, data on demographics and occupation;
(iv) shall collect information from participating agencies on best practices for the utilization of Registered Apprenticeships in grants and contracts, including for expanding job quality, equity, and access to employment for all individuals in underserved communities, and, consistent with applicable law, shall report this information publicly to assist agencies in fulfilling their responsibilities under this order;
(v) shall identify agency programs for which workforce development, including use of Registered Apprenticeships, is an allowable use of funds; and
(vi) shall identify agency programs for which grantees and contractors could be provided incentives, consistent with agency authorities, to adopt or expand Registered Apprenticeship programs for their workforces.
Sec. 4
.
Procurement and Grants.
(a) Agencies shall review their Federal financial assistance programs and procurement plans and identify where, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, they could include requirements, application evaluation factors, or incentives in appropriate program documents or solicitations for grantees or contractors to employ workers on projects receiving Federal funding who are participating in, or who have completed, either a Registered Apprenticeship or Pre-Apprenticeship.
(b) Agencies shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, apply the requirements, application evaluation factors, or incentives that they have identified pursuant to the review conducted in subsection (a) of this section in appropriate program documents or solicitations for grantees or contractors. Agencies may consult the Working Group for technical assistance and other appropriate support in these efforts.
(c) Agencies shall annually report to the Working Group on the programs and solicitations that included the terms described in subsection (a) of this section and the awards and contracts that promoted the use of Registered Apprenticeships and Pre-Apprenticeships pursuant to a requirement, application evaluation factor, or incentive.
Sec. 5
.
Expanded Use of Registered Apprenticeships at Agencies.
Based on recommendations from the initial report described in section 3(d) of this order and in consultation with the Working Group, agencies, as part of their strategic workforce planning, shall take steps to develop and expand the use of Registered Apprenticeship programs, where practicable, to train
and develop incumbent workers and candidates for employment to obtain the skills necessary to meet the current and emerging needs of the agency workforce. With respect to those programs:
(a) Agencies shall identify, in consultation with OPM, existing authorities that can support both the hiring of new employees for Registered Apprenticeships and the training of incumbent workers through Registered Apprenticeship programs.
(b) Based on recommendations from the initial report described in section 3(d) of this order and in consultation with the Working Group, agencies shall identify top occupations, including those occupations for which the agency faces challenges in recruitment and training, for which the agency may benefit from the use of Registered Apprenticeship programs. Any such actions shall be consistent with section 6 of Executive Order 14035 of June 25, 2021 (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility in the Federal Workforce).
(c) Agencies shall develop outreach and recruitment strategies to attract individuals who may not otherwise have considered a Registered Apprenticeship program for Federal employment or advancement.
(d) In consultation with Federal unions through Labor-Management Forums, agencies shall identify opportunities for current Federal employees to access and benefit from a Registered Apprenticeship program.
(e) Agencies shall establish training, mentorship, and career-development services within Registered Apprenticeship programs to support employee development and retention.
Sec. 6
.
Implementation of Labor-Management Forums Throughout the Executive Branch.
(a) Executive Order 13812 of September 29, 2017 (Revocation of Executive Order Creating Labor-Management Forums), is hereby revoked.
(b) Each Labor-Management Forum agency, consistent with any guidance issued by OPM, shall:
(i) establish Labor-Management Forums by creating joint labor-management committees or councils at the levels of recognition and other appropriate levels agreed to by the employee union and management, or by adapting existing councils or committees if such groups exist, to help identify problems and propose solutions to better serve the public and agency mission;
(ii) allow employees and their union representatives to have pre-decisional involvement in workplace matters, including consultation on Registered Apprenticeship recommendations and discussions with management for the development of joint solutions to workplace challenges; and
(iii) evaluate and document, in consultation with union representatives and any further guidance provided by OPM, changes in employee satisfaction, manager satisfaction, and organizational performance resulting from the Labor-Management Forums.
(c) Each head of a Labor-Management Forum agency for which there exists one or more exclusive representatives, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7103(a)(16), shall, in consultation with union representatives, prepare and
submit to OPM, within 180 days of the date of this order, a written implementation plan that addresses the requirements of subsection (b) of this section. The Office of Personnel Management shall review each plan within 60 days of receipt and shall determine whether to certify that the plan satisfies the requirements of this order and any further guidance issued by OPM. Upon certification, the head of each Labor-Management Forum agency shall ensure that the certified plan is faithfully executed. Any plan that is determined by OPM to be insufficient shall be returned to the Labor-Management Forum agency with guidance for improvement, and the agency shall resubmit its revised plan to OPM within 30 days of receipt of the original plan from OPM.
Sec. 7
.
General Provisions.
(a) This order supersedes Executive Order 13522 of December 9, 2009 (Creating Labor-Management Forums to Improve Delivery of Government Services).
(b) Nothing in this order shall abrogate any collective bargaining agreements in effect as of the date of this order.
(c) Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit, preclude, or prohibit the head of any executive department or agency from electing to negotiate over any or all of the subjects set forth in 5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1) in any negotiation.
(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(e) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(f) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 6, 2024.
Executive Order 14120 of March 18, 2024
EO 14120

# Advancing Women's Health Research and Innovation
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
My Administration is committed to getting women the answers they need about their health. For far too long, scientific and biomedical research excluded women and undervalued the study of women's health. The resulting research gaps mean that we know far too little about women's health across women's lifespans, and those gaps are even more prominent for women of color, older women, and women with disabilities.
The notion of including women in clinical trials used to be revolutionary—which means many diagnostics and treatments were developed without women in mind and thus failed to account for women's health. Over 30 years ago, the Congress passed the landmark National Institutes of Health Revitalization Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-43) to direct the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the largest public funder of biomedical research in the world, to include women and people of color in NIH-funded clinical research. In 2016, the Congress built on these requirements in the 21st Century Cures Act (Public Law 114-255), which directed the NIH to further its pursuit of women's health research, including by strengthening clinical trial inclusion and data analysis, developing research and data standards to advance the study of women's health, and improving NIH-wide coordination on women's health research.
These policies led to significant increases in women's participation in clinical trials, and ongoing investments in biomedical research have supported breakthroughs in women's health. Through the discovery of genetic factors that increase the risk of breast cancer and innovations in mammography, we have transformed our approach to prevention, early detection, and treatment, and have improved outcomes for women facing a breast cancer diagnosis. We have improved access to life-saving treatments for women with severe heart failure by ensuring that the devices they need are the right size for a woman's body. We have also identified some of the most characteristic symptoms of heart attack in women, which are different from those in men—discoveries that have helped deliver faster treatment to women when every second counts. This is what we can achieve when we invest in women's health research.
It is time, once again, to pioneer the next generation of discoveries in women's health. My Administration seeks to fundamentally change how we approach and fund women's health research in the United States. That is why I established the first-ever White House Initiative on Women's Health Research (Initiative)—which is within the Office of the First Lady and includes a wide array of executive departments and agencies (agencies) and White House offices—to accelerate research that will provide the tools we need to prevent, diagnose, and treat conditions that affect women uniquely, disproportionately, or differently.
Together with the First Lady's tireless efforts, the Initiative is already galvanizing the Federal Government to advance women's health, including through investments in innovation and improved coordination within and across agencies. We are also mobilizing leaders across a wide range of sectors, including industry, philanthropy, and the medical and research communities, to improve women's health.
It is the policy of my Administration to advance women's health research, close health disparities, and ensure that the gains we make in research laboratories are translated into real-world clinical benefits for women. It is also the policy of my Administration to ensure that women have access to high-quality, evidence-based health care and to improve health outcomes for women across their lifespans and throughout the country.
I will continue to call on the Congress to provide the transformative investments necessary to help our researchers and scientists answer today's most pressing questions related to women's health. Investing in innovation in women's health is an investment in the future of American families and
the economy. At the same time, agencies must use their existing authorities to advance and integrate women's health across the Federal research portfolio, close research gaps, and make investments that maximize our ability to prevent, diagnose, and treat health conditions in women.
Sec. 2
.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) The term “women's health research” means research aimed at expanding knowledge of women's health across their lifespans, which includes the study and analysis of conditions specific to women, conditions that disproportionately impact women, and conditions that affect women differently.
(b) The term “White House Initiative on Women's Health Research” means the interagency, advisory body established by the Presidential Memorandum of November 13, 2023 (White House Initiative on Women's Health Research), to advance women's health research.
(c) The term “agency Members of the Initiative” refers to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Director of the National Science Foundation.
Sec. 3
.
Further Integrating Women's Health Research in Federal Research Programs.
(a) Building on research and data standards issued by the NIH in 2016, agency Members of the Initiative shall consider actions to develop or strengthen research and data standards that enhance the study of women's health across all relevant, federally funded research and other Federal funding opportunities. Agency Members of the Initiative shall consider issuing new guidance, application materials, reporting requirements, and research dissemination strategies to advance the study of women's health, including to:
(i) require applicants for Federal research funding, as appropriate, to explain how their proposed study designs will consider and advance our knowledge of women's health, including through the adoption of standard application language;
(ii) consider women's health, as appropriate, during the evaluation of research proposals that address medical conditions that may affect women differently or disproportionately;
(iii) improve accountability for grant recipients, including, as appropriate, by requiring regular reporting on their implementation of, and compliance with, research and data standards related to women's health, including compliance with recruitment milestones; and
(iv) improve the recruitment, enrollment, and retention of women in clinical trials, including, as appropriate, by reducing barriers through technological and data sciences advances.
(b) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Chair of the Initiative and the Director of the NIH Office of Research on Women's Health, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), shall establish and co-chair a subgroup of the Initiative to promote interagency alignment and consistency in the development of agency research and data standards to enhance the study of women's health.
(c) Within 90 days of the date of this order, agency Members of the Initiative shall report to the Chair of the Initiative on actions taken to strengthen research and data standards to enhance the study and analysis of women's health and related conditions.
(d) Within 180 days of the date of this order and on an annual basis thereafter, agency Members of the Initiative shall report to the President on the status of implementation of research and data standards.
Sec. 4
.
Prioritizing Federal Investments in Women's Health Research.
(a) Agency Members of the Initiative shall identify and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, prioritize grantmaking and other awards to advance women's health research, with an emphasis on:
(i) promoting collaborative, interdisciplinary research across fields and areas of expertise;
(ii) addressing health disparities and inequities affecting women, including those related to race, ethnicity, age, socioeconomic status, disability, and exposure to environmental factors and contaminants that can directly affect health; and
(iii) supporting the translation of research advancements into improved health outcomes.
(b) Agency Members of the Initiative shall take steps to promote the availability of federally funded research and other Federal funding opportunities to advance women's health, including through the development and inclusion of standard language related to women's health, as appropriate, in all relevant notices of funding opportunity and through better facilitating potential grant applicants' access to information about funding opportunities related to women's health research.
(c) To advance innovation, commercialization, and risk mitigation, agency Members of the Initiative shall:
(i) identify and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, seek ways to use innovation funds, challenges, prizes, and other mechanisms to spur innovation in women's health;
(ii) invest in innovation to accelerate women's health research, including through or in collaboration with the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health and the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs;
(iii) support the role of small businesses and entrepreneurs in advancing innovation in women's health research, including through Small Business Innovation Research Programs and Small Business Technology Transfer Programs; and
(iv) invest in translational science to convert research findings and discoveries into treatments and interventions that improve women's health outcomes and reduce health disparities, including through the Department of Agriculture National Institute of Food and Agriculture research programs.
(d) In implementing section 8(b) of Executive Order 14110 of October 30, 2023 (Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence), the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Director of the National Science Foundation, shall consider the opportunities for and challenges that affect women's health research in the
responsible deployment and use of artificial intelligence (AI) and AI-enabled technologies in the health and human services sector.
Sec. 5
.
Galvanizing Research on Women's Midlife Health.
(a) Within 90 days of the date of this order, to address research gaps in understanding women's health and diseases and conditions associated with women's midlife and later years, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall:
(i) launch a comprehensive assessment of the current state of the science on menopause to develop an evidence-based research agenda that will guide Federal and private sector investments in menopause-related research;
(ii) evaluate evidence-based interventions and strategies to improve women's experiences in the menopausal and perimenopausal periods, including the delivery of treatments for women experiencing menopause in clinical care settings;
(iii) consider developing new common data elements and survey tools to expand the ethical and equitable collection of data on issues related to women's midlife health; and
(iv) develop new comprehensive resources to help ensure that the public has evidence-based information about menopause, including menopause-related research initiatives, findings, and symptom-prevention and treatment options.
(b) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall evaluate the needs of women service members and veterans related to midlife health and shall develop recommendations to support improved treatment and targeted research of midlife health issues, including menopausal symptoms.
Sec. 6
.
Assessing Unmet Needs to Support Women's Health Research.
The Director of OMB and the Assistant to the President and Director of the Gender Policy Council (Directors) shall lead an effort, in collaboration with the Initiative, to identify current gaps in Federal funding for women's health research and shall submit recommendations to the President describing the additional funding and programming necessary to catalyze research on women's health, including in priority areas within women's health as identified by the Initiative, as follows:
(a) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Directors shall, in consultation with the Initiative, develop guidance for assessing additional funding that agencies need to close research gaps in women's health.
(b) Within 180 days of the date of this order, Members of the Initiative shall consult the guidance described in subsection (a) of this section and shall each submit a report to the Directors that identifies the funding needed to catalyze research on women's health.
(c) Based on the reports described in subsection (b) of this section, the Directors shall develop and submit recommendations to the President on steps the Federal Government should take to catalyze research on women's health. These recommendations shall identify any statutory, regulatory, budgetary, or other changes that may be necessary to ensure that Federal laws, policies, practices, and programs support women's health research more effectively.
(d) Following the submission of the recommendations described in subsection (c) of this section, each Member of the Initiative shall report annually to the Directors on progress made in response to those recommendations and to improve the study of women's health. The Director of OMB shall provide a summary of Members' progress and any new recommendations to the President on an annual basis, consult with each Member on their women's health research funding needs during the annual budget process, and calculate Federal funding for women's health research on an annual basis.
Sec. 7
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 18, 2024.
Executive Order 14121 of March 27, 2024
EO 14121

# Recognizing and Honoring Women's History
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
Women and girls of all backgrounds have shaped our country's history, from the ongoing fight for justice and equality to cutting-edge scientific advancements and artistic achievements. Yet these contributions have often been overlooked. We must do more to recognize the role of women and girls in America's story, including through the Federal Government's recognition and interpretation of historic and cultural sites.
It is the policy of my Administration to recognize and honor the diverse trailblazers—including women and girls—who have contributed to the fabric of our Nation. One of the National Park Service's important functions is serving as the Nation's storyteller by managing a constellation of sites on behalf of the American public that, together, help preserve and honor different chapters in our Nation's history. The National Park Service honors trailblazing women and their contributions to the Nation, from Harriet Tubman and Eleanor Roosevelt, to Rosie the Riveter and Mamie Till-Mobley. Still, women's history is vastly underrepresented in our National Park System, creating an important opportunity to strengthen our Nation's recognition of the role of women in shaping this country.
This order directs actions that will strengthen the Federal Government's recognition of women's history and the achievements of women and girls from all backgrounds. It builds on steps I have taken to advance equity and equality across the Federal Government and to help tell a more complete story of our Nation's history, including through Executive Order 14020 of March 8, 2021 (Establishment of the White House Gender Policy Council), Executive Order 13985 of January 20, 2021 (Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government), and Executive Order 14091 of February 16, 2023 (Further Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government). By honoring the women leaders of the past, we tell a more complete story of America and help build a more equal and equitable present and future.
Sec. 2
.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) The term “sites of national importance” includes National Park “System units” as defined in 54 U.S.C. 100102 (by reference to 54 U.S.C. 100501), national monuments designated by the Congress or by the President pursuant to 54 U.S.C. 320301, and National Historic Landmarks designated under 36 C.F.R. part 65.
(b) The term “theme studies” means studies conducted by the National Park Service pursuant to 36 C.F.R. 65.5(a) to identify historic properties in the United States that are nationally significant to a specific area of American history.
Sec. 3
.
Recognizing and Honoring Women's History.
(a) Within 180 days of the date of this order, to strengthen the Federal Government's recognition of women's history, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit a report to the President that:
(i) includes an assessment of existing sites of national importance that are directly related to women's history, whether managed by the Department of Defense, the Department of the Interior, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, or any other executive branch entity; and
(ii) identifies opportunities within sites of national importance to highlight important figures and chapters in women's history.
(b) To strengthen the Federal Government's recognition of women's history:
(i) The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct an overview theme study specific to women's history that identifies major topics in women's history to be addressed by a series of subsequent theme studies. The overview theme study and plan for additional studies shall address prominent women and girls in key periods of United States history, such as pre-European contact, Colonial America, the American Revolution, the abolition and suffrage movements, the Civil War and Reconstruction, the Progressive Era, the Great Depression and New Deal, World War II and post-war, the civil rights and women's rights movements, and contemporary America, among other topics. It also shall highlight women and girl leaders in advocacy and social movements, defense, diplomacy, education, law, medicine, the sciences, conservation and environmental protection, sports, the arts, or other professions and disciplines, as appropriate.
(ii) The Secretary of the Interior shall review previously completed theme studies and issue a report to help ensure representation of women's history in sites of national importance. This review of completed theme studies should include, among others, sites of national importance focused on or linked with the histories of Latino Americans; Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders; African Americans; people of Indigenous descent; and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex Americans; as well as American civil rights and labor histories. The report shall adopt an intersectional approach by including women from different backgrounds and communities and shall reflect diversity in factors such as gender, race, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, religion, Tribal affiliation, disability, age, geography, income, and socioeconomic status.
(iii) To inform relevant actions the Department of the Interior will take over the next 10 years, the Secretary of the Interior shall request recommendations from the National Park System Advisory Board on ways to improve the recognition of women's history across Federal parks, lands, and programs, including through historic designations and national monument designations. The Secretary of the Interior shall request that the National Park System Advisory Board produce interim recommendations to the Secretary within 270 days of the date of this order and produce final recommendations within 1 year of the date of this order.
(c) The Secretary of the Interior shall make available the findings from the overview theme study and series of subsequent theme studies conducted pursuant to subsection (b)(i) of this section to the Director of the Smithsonian American Women's History Museum and the corresponding council established in 20 U.S.C. 80t-2, for consideration, as appropriate, in developing their own exhibits.
Sec. 4
.
Implementation.
The Secretary of the Interior shall consult with the Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Gender Policy Council, the Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council, and the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality in implementing this order.
Sec. 5
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 27, 2024.
Executive Order 14122 of April 12, 2024
EO 14122

# COVID-19 and Public Health Preparedness and Response
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy
. The Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response Policy (OPPR), established by the Congress in December 2022 under section 2104 of Public Law 117-328, is playing a critical role in the Federal Government's pandemic preparedness efforts. The OPPR is providing advice, within the Executive Office of the President, on policy related to preparedness for, and response to, pandemic and other biological threats that may impact national security. The OPPR is also supporting my Administration's continued work to address COVID-19 and other public health threats, facilitating coordination and communication among executive departments and agencies to ensure that the United States can quickly detect, identify, and respond to such threats as necessary. At this stage of my Administration's response to COVID-19, I have determined that certain Executive Orders are no longer necessary and that certain roles and responsibilities established by other Executive Orders related to COVID-19 should be transferred to the OPPR.
Sec. 2
.
Revocations
. Executive Order 13910 of March 23, 2020 (Preventing Hoarding of Health and Medical Resources to Respond to the Spread of COVID-19), Executive Order 13991 of January 20, 2021 (Protecting the Federal Workforce and Requiring Mask-Wearing), and Executive Order 13998 of January 21, 2021 (Promoting COVID-19 Safety in Domestic and International Travel), are hereby revoked.
Sec. 3
.
Transfer of Responsibilities
. Responsibilities and duties of the Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response and Counselor to the President (COVID-19 Response Coordinator), including responsibilities and duties specified in Executive Order 13987 of January 20, 2021 (Organizing and Mobilizing the United States Government to Provide a Unified and Effective Response to Combat COVID-19 and to Provide United States Leadership on Global Health and Security), Executive Order 13994 of January 21, 2021 (Ensuring a Data-Driven Response to COVID-19 and Future High-Consequence Public Health Threats), and Executive Order 13996 of January 21, 2021 (Establishing the COVID-19 Pandemic Testing Board and Ensuring a Sustainable Public Health Workforce for COVID-19 and Other Biological Threats), are transferred to the Director of the OPPR. The positions of COVID-19 Response Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response, as established by section 2 of Executive Order 13987, are hereby terminated.
Sec. 4
.
General Provisions
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 12, 2024.
Executive Order 14123 of June 14, 2024
EO 14123

# White House Council on Supply Chain Resilience
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
As described in Executive Order 14017 of February 24, 2021 (America's Supply Chains), it is the policy of my Administration to strengthen the enduring resilience of America's supply chains. The United States needs resilient, diverse, and secure supply chains to ensure our economic prosperity, public health, and national security. Pandemics and other biological threats, cyber attacks, climate stressors and extreme weather events, transnational corruption, terrorist attacks, geopolitical disputes, unfair economic competition, and other disruptive conditions can reduce critical infrastructure, manufacturing, and processing capacity and the availability of critical goods, materials, and services. Building resilient American supply chains will necessitate enhancing domestic manufacturing capacity, supporting America's competitive edge in research and development, encouraging innovation, reinforcing critical infrastructure, and creating well-paying jobs. Building resilient American supply chains will also provide a foundation to strengthen prosperity, advance the fight against climate change, enhance national emergency preparedness, and encourage economic growth across the Nation.
More resilient supply chains are secure and diverse. Characteristics of resilient supply chains include greater domestic production; a diverse and agile supplier base; built-in redundancies; a reliable transportation system; secure critical infrastructure; adequate stockpiles; safe and secure data networks; reliable food systems; and a world-class, globally competitive American manufacturing base and workforce. Close cooperation on building global supply chain resilience with allies and partners who share our values will foster collective economic and national security, encourage innovation, and strengthen the capacity to respond to and recover from international disasters and emergencies.
Sec. 2
.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) “Agency” has the meaning given to that term in Executive Order 14017.
(b) “Critical goods and materials” has the meaning given to that term in Executive Order 14017.
(c) “Other essential goods, materials, and services” means goods, materials, and services that are essential to national and economic security,
emergency preparedness, or to advance the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, but not included within the definition of “critical goods and materials.”
(d) “Critical infrastructure” means assets, systems, and networks, whether physical or virtual, that are so vital to the United States that their incapacitation or destruction would have a debilitating effect on national security, economic security, national public health or safety, or any combination thereof.
Sec. 3
.
Coordination.
(a) This order supplements and reaffirms the principles governing America's supply chains established in Executive Order 14017. Any provisions of Executive Order 14017 not amended in this order shall remain in effect.
(b) Notwithstanding section 2 of Executive Order 14017, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA) and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy (APEP) shall coordinate, as appropriate, the executive branch actions necessary to implement this order through the White House Council on Supply Chain Resilience (Council) established on November 27, 2023, and further described in section 4 of this order. In coordinating the work of the Council on issues related to national security, and on other issues as they deem appropriate, the APNSA and the APEP shall work with the Council in conformance with the interagency process identified in National Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021 (Renewing the National Security Council System).
Sec. 4
.
White House Council on Supply Chain Resilience.
(a) The White House Council on Supply Chain Resilience residing within the Executive Office of the President is led by the APNSA and the APEP, who serve as Co-Chairs of the Council. In addition to the Co-Chairs, the membership of the Council consists of the following members:
(i) the Secretary of State;
(ii) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(iii) the Secretary of Defense;
(iv) the Attorney General;
(v) the Secretary of the Interior;
(vi) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(vii) the Secretary of Commerce;
(viii) the Secretary of Labor;
(ix) the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
(x) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;
(xi) the Secretary of Transportation;
(xii) the Secretary of Energy;
(xiii) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;
(xiv) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(xv) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;
(xvi) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
(xvii) the Director of National Intelligence;
(xviii) the United States Trade Representative;
(xix) the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;
(xx) the Administrator of the Small Business Administration;
(xxi) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
(xxii) the Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor;
(xxiii) the Assistant to the President and National Climate Advisor;
(xxiv) the National Cyber Director;
(xxv) the Senior Advisor to the President for International Climate Policy;
(xxvi) the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality;
(xxvii) the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
(xxviii) the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development;
(xxix) the Director of the Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response Policy;
(xxx) the President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States; and
(xxxi) the heads of such other agencies and offices as the Co-Chairs may from time to time invite to participate.
(b) The Co-Chairs shall invite participation of the Chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission and the Chairman of the Surface Transportation Board to the extent consistent with their statutory authorities and obligations.
(c) The Council shall coordinate and promote Federal Government efforts to strengthen long-term supply chain resilience and American industrial competitiveness; identify and provide a coordinated response to address supply chain insecurities, threats, and vulnerabilities, including excessive geographic or supplier concentration; and facilitate collaboration by agencies with allies and partners to foster greater global supply chain resilience. To serve these purposes, the Council shall:
(i) recommend to agencies procedures and best practices for agency cooperation and coordination on data collection and analysis, especially to the extent that agency missions may overlap or intersect, and help facilitate such cooperation and coordination;
(ii) identify budgetary and any other resources needed to support supply chain resilience, including resources to build strong and enduring agency capabilities to identify, address, mitigate, and prevent supply chain risks, shocks, and disruptions;
(iii) recommend administrative actions that would further the policy objectives set forth in section 1 of Executive Order 14017 and in section 1 of this order;
(iv) coordinate with other interagency bodies managing policy areas that affect the integrity of supply chains; and
(v) coordinate with agencies, to the extent appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to ensure that agency operations related to building critical supply chain resilience are conducted in a manner that promotes a fair, open, and competitive marketplace and empowers workers to advocate for their rights and quality jobs.
(d) The Council shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consult outside stakeholders—such as private industry; academic and educational institutions; non-governmental organizations; labor unions; and State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments—on an individual basis to help accomplish the policy objectives identified in section 1 of this order and in section 1 of Executive Order 14017. Any member of the Council that receives a recommendation from a Federal Advisory Committee, as that term is defined in 5 U.S.C. 1001(2), regarding industrial resilience and competitiveness or supply chain risks, resilience, diversity, or sustainability shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, share that recommendation with the Council.
(e) The Council shall conduct a quadrennial supply chain review of industries critical to national or economic security. The review shall address the processes in place to monitor supply chains and the timeliness of the associated data. At the conclusion of each review, the Council shall submit a report to the President, with the first report submitted no later than December 31, 2024, and subsequent reports submitted every 4 years thereafter. Where practicable and as appropriate, the report shall make recommendations concerning:
(i) Federal incentives and any potential amendments to Federal procurement regulations that may be necessary to attract and retain private sector investments in the supply chains for critical goods and materials and other essential goods, materials, and services as defined in section 2 of this order, including any new programs that could encourage both domestic and foreign investment in the supply chains for critical goods and materials and other essential goods, materials, and services;
(ii) a strategic plan that includes diplomatic, economic, security, international development, trade, and other policy actions to guide United States engagement with allies and partners, including through regional economic frameworks or partnerships supported by the United States, to strengthen global supply chain resilience in critical sectors;
(iii) actions for the insulation of Federal supply chain analyses and actions from conflicts of interest, corruption, or the appearance of impropriety to ensure continued integrity and public confidence in supply chain analyses and actions;
(iv) potential legislative changes that would promote the policy objectives set forth in section 1 of Executive Order 14017 and in section 1 of this order;
(v) reforms to domestic and international trade rules and agreements that could be pursued to support supply chain resilience, security, diversity, sustainability, and strength;
(vi) education and workforce reforms needed to strengthen the domestic industrial base for critical goods and materials and other essential goods, materials, and services; and
(vii) steps to ensure that the Federal Government's supply chain policies support small businesses and family-owned small- and mid-sized farming operations, prevent monopolization, strengthen critical infrastructure, empower workers to advocate for their rights and quality jobs, consider climate and other health and environmental effects, encourage economic growth in underserved communities and economically distressed areas, and promote the geographic dispersal of economic activity across all regions of the United States.
(f) Subsection (e) of this section supersedes section 5(c) of Executive Order 14017.
(g) Each member of the Council shall designate, within 30 days of the date of this order, a senior official within their respective agency or office who shall coordinate with the Council and who shall be responsible for overseeing the agency's or office's efforts to address supply chain resilience. The Co-Chairs may designate Council subgroups consisting of Council members or their designees, as appropriate.
(h) The Council shall meet on a semiannual basis unless the Co-Chairs determine that a meeting is unnecessary or that additional meetings are needed.
(i) Each agency or office shall bear its own expenses for participating in the Council.
Sec. 5
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 14, 2024.
Executive Order 14124 of July 17, 2024
EO 14124

# White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to advance equity in economic and educational opportunities, strengthen the capacity of Hispanic-
Serving Institutions (HSIs) to provide a high-quality education, increase opportunities for these institutions to participate in and benefit from Federal programs, and ensure that HSIs can continue to be engines of educational opportunity and economic mobility, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
Hispanic-Serving Institutions have a history of expanding educational opportunities for generations of Hispanic and Latino students. As defined in section 502(a)(5) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1101a(a)(5)), HSIs are institutions of higher education that have an enrollment of at least 25 percent Hispanic undergraduate full-time-equivalent students and satisfy other criteria, including with respect to enrollment of needy students and expenditures per full-time-equivalent undergraduate student.
Today, more than 500 HSIs, located in 27 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, serve more than 4.7 million students annually. Hispanic-Serving Institutions vary in size; support a range of academic interests; and serve urban, rural, and suburban communities. Over half of Hispanic and Latino postsecondary students in America attend an HSI, and nearly 40 percent of those students attend a 2-year HSI. Hispanic-Serving Institutions serve a significant number of students from low-income backgrounds. Students enrolled at HSIs account for approximately 30 percent of all Pell Grant recipients, even though these colleges and universities make up only 13 percent of all postsecondary degree-granting institutions. Further, HSIs can play a critical role in fostering diversity in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields. Notably, 69 percent of doctoral students in HSIs are enrolled in science- and engineering-related degrees, highlighting the significant role HSIs can play in ensuring a workforce that meets the Nation's evolving needs in technical fields.
As Hispanic and Latino college enrollment has grown to historic levels over the last few decades, so has the number of HSIs, making HSIs' success vital to the strength of the Nation. These institutions are creating and implementing evidence-based practices that lead to Hispanic and Latino student success.
Despite the fact that HSIs represent a large and fast-growing segment of the Nation's colleges and universities, per-student Federal funding at HSIs is 25 percent less than at other degree-granting institutions. Over the last 30 years, the number of HSIs has more than doubled and Hispanic or Latino student enrollment at HSIs has more than tripled. But per-student Federal funding at HSIs remains low compared to degree-granting institutions generally, and many HSIs report having unmet physical and digital infrastructure needs. This scarcity of resources often leaves HSIs at a disadvantage when compared with better-resourced institutions. Students, faculty, and staff at under-resourced HSIs often face challenges in accessing the resources they need to excel.
Despite these funding disparities, research has shown that HSIs tend to do more for Hispanic and Latino student success than non-HSI colleges and universities—and do so with fewer resources. Many HSIs are leaders in promoting economic mobility for Hispanic and Latino students, including by closing college access, completion, and success gaps. Hispanic-Serving Institutions could further improve outcomes for students if they were adequately funded. The Federal Government must strengthen the capacity of HSIs to improve and expand their reach, while recognizing that HSIs face
discrete challenges and opportunities that reflect their history and the communities they serve.
As set forth in Executive Order 14045 of September 13, 2021 (White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Hispanics), the Federal Government must collaborate with Hispanic and Latino communities to ensure their long-term success, including by eliminating barriers to Federal funding and strengthening the capacity of HSIs. This order builds on those policies by establishing the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions and the President's Board of Advisors on Hispanic-Serving Institutions.
It is the policy of my Administration to advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity through strong partnerships with HSIs to ensure that they have access to Federal resources to help current and future generations of students succeed. The Federal Government must collaborate with HSIs and the students, families, and communities they serve to address and overcome barriers that may impede educational attainment and upward economic mobility. Strengthening the capacity of the Nation's HSIs is critical to fulfilling that objective.
Sec. 2
.
White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions.
(a) In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, there is established within the Department of Education (Department) the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions (Initiative), of which the Secretary of Education (Secretary) shall serve as Chair. The Secretary shall designate an Executive Director for the Initiative (Executive Director). The Executive Director shall manage the day-to-day operations of the Initiative, in consultation with the Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Public Engagement, as appropriate, and coordinate with senior officials in the Executive Office of the President, who shall lend their expertise and advice to the Initiative.
(b) The Initiative shall advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity through HSIs by focusing on the following goals:
(i) identifying and promoting the availability of Federal programs and resources to enhance HSIs' educational capacity, including with respect to research and infrastructure development, while also breaking down barriers and expanding pathways for HSIs to access such programs and resources;
(ii) identifying best practices for HSIs on developing, implementing, expanding, and sustaining strategies, programs, and initiatives that support the educational success and economic mobility of their students;
(iii) improving the ability of HSIs to align their program offerings with the Nation's economic needs and promote opportunities for careers in critical professions, with an emphasis on increasing the number of students preparing for careers in in-demand and high-wage fields, such as science, technology, engineering, and math, as well as teaching, including bilingual and multilingual education;
(iv) coordinating efforts to improve the fiscal security of HSIs;
(v) developing new relationships, and fostering collaboration, among HSIs and philanthropic organizations, public- and private-sector organizations, elementary and secondary education providers, labor unions, and other entities to improve postsecondary affordability and degree attainment, pathways for students to enroll in HSIs, career preparation at HSIs, and employment opportunities that advance economic mobility for HSI students and graduates;
(vi) strengthening Federal recruitment activities at HSIs to build accessible and equitable pathways into Federal career opportunities for HSI students, faculty, staff, and alumni;
(vii) encouraging HSIs, as institutions that provide students with degrees that lead to upward economic mobility, to participate in Federal policymaking processes;
(viii) encouraging the development of highly qualified, diverse, multilingual, and culturally responsive educators who support and instruct HSI students and contribute to effectively meeting those students' social, emotional, and academic needs; and
(ix) providing data, tools, and analytics to support HSIs in improving educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for students.
(c) On an annual basis, the Executive Director, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, shall report to the President on the Initiative's progress in carrying out its mission and function under this order.
(d) The Executive Director shall meet regularly with HSI students, leaders, and other representatives to discuss matters related to the Initiative's mission and function.
(e) The Department shall provide funding and administrative support for the Initiative to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. To the extent permitted by law, including the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535), and subject to the availability of appropriations, other executive departments and agencies (agencies) and offices may detail personnel to the Initiative to assist the Department in meeting the objectives of this order.
(f) To advance shared priorities and policies that advance educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity through HSIs, the Initiative shall collaborate and coordinate with other White House Initiatives, including by sharing best practices on improving student success—including the success of Hispanic and Latino students—between HSIs and other institutions of higher education.
Sec. 3
.
President's Board of Advisors on Hispanic-Serving Institutions.
(a) In furtherance of the policy described in section 1 of this order, there is established within the Department the President's Board of Advisors on Hispanic-Serving Institutions (Board).
(b) The Board shall consist of not more than 21 members, appointed by the President, and may include individuals who serve as representatives of their respective organizations and institutions, such as educational institutions, educational advocacy organizations, labor organizations, research institutions, public and private philanthropic organizations, private-sector organizations, nonprofit organizations, and community-based organizations.
Members of the Board should be knowledgeable about the experiences of those who attend, work for, and work to strengthen HSIs.
(c) The President shall designate one member of the Board to serve as its Chair, and may designate another member of the Board to serve as Vice Chair. The Chair, in consultation with the Executive Director of the Initiative, shall convene regular meetings of the Board, determine the Board meeting agenda, and support the work of the Board consistent with this order.
(d) The Department shall provide funding and administrative support for the Board to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707). Insofar as chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Federal Advisory Committee Act), may apply to the Board, any functions of the President under that Act, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Secretary, in accordance with guidelines issued by the Administrator of General Services.
(e) The Board shall provide advice to the President through the Secretary on how to advance the policy goals set forth in section 2(b) of this order, including with respect to:
(i) increasing the visibility of and participation by HSIs in Federal policymaking, including participation in Federal grant review processes;
(ii) providing HSIs, including those that have newly satisfied the criteria for the statutory definition, information about and access to Federal programs and Federal resources;
(iii) supporting the development of institutions on an enrollment trajectory to become an HSI, such as through mentorship with existing HSIs and sharing of best practices on how to improve the fiscal security of HSIs; and
(iv) establishing partnerships between HSIs and philanthropic organizations, public- and private-sector organizations, elementary and secondary education schools and their school districts, and labor unions.
(f) The Board shall periodically report to the President, through the Secretary and after consulting with the Executive Director, on the Board's progress in carrying out its mission and function under this order.
Sec. 4
.
Administrative Provisions.
(a) As used in this order, the terms “Hispanic-Serving Institutions” and “HSIs” mean those institutions that meet the definition of “Hispanic-serving institution” in section 502(a)(5) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1101a(a)(5)).
(b) The heads of agencies shall assist and provide information to the Initiative and the Board established in this order, consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Initiative and the Board.
(c) Each agency shall bear its own expenses of participating in the Initiative established in this order.
Sec. 5
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 17, 2024.
Executive Order 14125 of July 24, 2024
EO 14125

# Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate a Dispute Between New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and Its Locomotive Engineers Represented by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen
A dispute exists between the New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and its Locomotive Engineers represented by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen.
The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151-188 (RLA).
A party empowered by the RLA has requested that the President establish an emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the RLA (45 U.S.C. 159a).
Section 9A(c) of the RLA provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint an emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute.
NOW, THEREFORE, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including section 9A of the RLA, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Establishment of Emergency Board (Board).
There is established, effective 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on July 25, 2024, a Board composed of a chair and two other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President to investigate and report on the dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.
Sec. 2
.
Report.
The Board shall report to the President with respect to the dispute within 30 days of its creation.
Sec. 3
.
Maintaining Conditions.
As provided by section 9A(c) of the RLA, for 120 days from the date of the creation of the Board, no change in the
conditions out of which the dispute arose shall be made by the parties to the controversy, except by agreement of the parties.
Sec. 4
.
Records Maintenance.
The records and files of the Board are records of the Office of the President and upon the Board's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of the National Mediation Board.
Sec. 5
.
Expiration.
The Board shall terminate upon the submission of the report provided for in section 2 of this order.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 24, 2024.
Executive Order 14126 of September 6, 2024
EO 14126

# Investing in America and Investing in American Workers
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
The Federal Government has made significant strides in implementing the Investing in America agenda, a historic set of recently enacted laws aimed at rebuilding American infrastructure, bringing back American manufacturing, and catalyzing a clean energy economy. That agenda has been furthered by Executive Order 14082 of September 12, 2022 (Implementation of the Energy and Infrastructure Provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022), and Executive Order 14080 of August 25, 2022 (Implementation of the CHIPS Act of 2022). As implementation of the Investing in America agenda continues, it is essential that it supports the creation of well-paying jobs, especially union jobs, that improve opportunities for millions of Americans. Investing in American workers is critical to growing the economy equitably and resiliently, increasing our Nation's competitiveness, and ensuring our Nation's economic security. Workers understand the value of a good job that provides economic security for them and their families. Many companies also recognize that providing good-quality jobs while promoting workers' free and fair choice to join a union makes those companies employers of choice, creating a clear competitive advantage.
The Federal Government has long promoted high labor standards to ensure fair competition, stability, and efficiency on federally assisted projects. The use of high labor standards on federally assisted projects, such as the use of prevailing wages, project labor agreements, and equal employment opportunity policies, dates back almost a century. These tools ensure timely and economical completion of projects, provide a reliable source of highly skilled workers, support equitable workforce development, and improve worker health and safety on the job, while also improving outcomes for the communities in which projects are located. But these tools can and should be employed to a greater extent than they have been in the past.
For instance, providing incentives for federally assisted projects with high labor standards—including those using collective bargaining agreements, project labor agreements, and certain community benefits agreements—drives efficient project completion while also supporting high-quality jobs,
worker safety, and broader investment in communities. Ensuring that workers on federally assisted projects are paid competitive and equitable wages will enhance worker productivity, generate higher-quality work, and reduce turnover, providing value for taxpayers. Promoting inclusivity, with equal opportunity for all qualified workers, will help ensure that federally assisted projects have the workforce needed to implement the Investing in America agenda.
Therefore, it is the policy of my Administration to promote the creation of equitable workforce development pathways for workers to obtain good jobs that pay family-sustaining wages, provide critical benefits, prevent workplace discrimination, ensure worker safety, and allow workers a free and fair chance to join a union.
Sec. 2
.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) The term “implementing agencies” means the Department of the Interior, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Labor, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Energy, the Department of Education, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Environmental Protection Agency.
(b) The term “community benefits agreement” means an agreement signed by a developer and one or more community benefit groups—coalitions that are composed of neighborhood associations, faith-based organizations, unions, environmental groups, or other stakeholders—that identifies the community benefits a developer agrees to deliver in return for community support of the project.
(c) The term “Federal financial assistance” means funds obtained from the Federal Government or borrowed on the credit of the Federal Government pursuant to grants (whether formula or discretionary), loans, or rebates, or projects undertaken pursuant to any Federal program involving such grants, loans, or rebates.
(d) The term “Investing in America agenda” means the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Public Law 117-2); the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58); division A of Public Law 117-167, known as the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (CHIPS) Act of 2022; and Public Law 117-169, commonly referred to as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022.
(e) The term “pre-apprenticeship program” has the meaning given to that term in 29 CFR 30.2.
(f) The term “pre-award processes” means the negotiations, interactions, and other communications between an implementing agency and an applicant after proposal submission and prior to award.
(g) The term “project labor agreement” means a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement with one or more labor organizations that establishes the terms and conditions of employment for a specific construction project and is an agreement described in 29 U.S.C. 158(f).
(h) The term “registered apprenticeship” means an industry-driven career pathway through which employers can develop and prepare their future workforces and individuals can obtain paid training; work experience;
progressive wage increases; classroom instruction; and a portable, nationally recognized credential. A registered apprenticeship must meet the requirements for registration as set forth in 29 CFR parts 29 and 30.
(i) The term “underserved communities” refers to those populations as well as geographic communities that have been systematically denied the opportunity to participate fully in aspects of economic, social, and civic life, as defined in section 2 of Executive Order 13985 of January 20, 2021 (Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government), section 6 of Executive Order 14020 of March 8, 2021 (Establishment of the White House Gender Policy Council), and section 10 of Executive Order 14091 of February 16, 2023 (Further Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government), and additionally includes formerly incarcerated individuals.
(j) The term “public workforce system” has the meaning given to the term “workforce development system” in 29 U.S.C. 3102(67).
Sec. 3
.
Implementation Priorities.
In selecting projects for receiving Federal financial assistance from the Investing in America agenda, implementing agencies shall consider actions that, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:
(a) Prioritize projects for selection that provide a clear plan for efficient project delivery by promoting positive labor-management relations. Examples of instruments and policies that implementing agencies could consider encouraging applicants to adopt, as appropriate, may include: project labor agreements, community benefits agreements, collective bargaining agreements, agreements intended to ensure the uninterrupted delivery of services, agreements designed to facilitate first collective bargaining agreements, voluntary union recognition, and neutrality by the employer with respect to union organizing.
(b) Prioritize projects that enhance worker productivity by promoting family-sustaining wages. Examples of policies that implementing agencies could consider encouraging applicants to adopt, as appropriate, may include: payment of wages tied to a particular metric—such as wages not less than prevailing wages, the upper quartile of industry pay, or union pattern wage scales—including for workers in the care workforce, that is, individuals working in the fields of child care and long-term care; policies to promote equal pay and eliminate discriminatory pay practices, such as transparency measures; and other policies aligned with the Good Jobs Principles established by the Department of Commerce and the Department of Labor on June 21, 2022.
(c) Prioritize projects that supply critical benefits that promote economic security for workers, such as paid leave (including paid sick, family, and medical leave); health care; retirement benefits; and child, dependent, and elder care.
(d) Prioritize projects that promote and expand access to, and put in place policies that combat discrimination that limits employment in, high-quality jobs for workers from underserved communities. Examples of policies that implementing agencies could consider encouraging applicants to adopt, as appropriate, may include: workforce plans that contain strategies for recruiting, hiring, and retaining workers from underserved and local
communities; policies that help prevent workplace discrimination and harassment, including through reporting structures and ongoing training; and participation in programs designed to support compliance with existing equal employment opportunity obligations under Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965 (Equal Employment Opportunity), as amended, section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-112), the Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-540), as amended, and their implementing regulations.
(e) Prioritize projects that strengthen workforce development by expanding worker access to high-quality training and portable credentials that lead to good jobs. Examples of policies that implementing agencies could consider encouraging applicants to adopt, as appropriate, may include: the use of joint labor-management partnerships that invest in union-affiliated training programs, registered apprenticeships, and pre-apprenticeship programs that matriculate to registered apprenticeships; partnerships with organizations that deliver training such as community colleges, career and technical education programs, disability service organizations, the public workforce system, and the American Climate Corps; and the provision of supportive services necessary to complete training such as child care and transportation assistance.
(f) Prioritize projects that promote and protect worker health and safety through policies that encourage supplemental safety training, worker and union participation in the design and implementation of workplace safety and health management systems, and disclosure of occupational safety and health violations.
Sec. 4
.
Implementation Approach.
(a) Implementing agencies shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider the following strategies in connection with their Federal financial assistance programs to promote the implementation priorities identified in section 3 of this order:
(i) including application evaluation criteria or selection factors that prioritize applicants that adopt or provide a specific plan to adopt those priorities;
(ii) publishing best practice guides and other guidance to applicants to promote and implement those priorities, including guides on what types of Federal financial assistance can be used for workforce development, such as supportive services;
(iii) engaging with applicants, where appropriate, during pre-award processes to ensure that applicants understand the benefits of those priorities for key programs and projects;
(iv) collecting relevant data to demonstrate funding recipients' progress, including by:
(A) requesting in funding notices or through other appropriate mechanisms that applicants address a series of “yes” or “no” questions regarding the implementation of those priorities to ensure transparency of labor practices and commitments;
(B) using existing compliance practices (such as the collection of certified payrolls when applicable) to collect detailed data on job quality, equity, and worker empowerment; and
(C) requesting reporting on key metrics and encouraging voluntary public reporting of additional relevant metrics developed by the implementing agency;
(v) promoting compliance with Federal law and commitments made by applicants, including, as appropriate, referring alleged violations of law to other executive departments and agencies for a determination of whether circumstances warrant the issuance of financial penalties or collection of relief for workers harmed, withholding further Federal financial assistance pending correction of a deficiency, recovery of some or all Federal funds, or debarment; and
(vi) supporting program staff and developing implementing agency expertise, including by consulting the Department of Labor and implementing agency labor advisors, to train program staff on how to implement those priorities and ensure that staff have the expertise needed to support the creation of good jobs through each phase of project delivery on federally assisted projects.
(b) Implementing agencies shall carry out their responsibilities under this order consistent with their responsibilities under the Justice40 Initiative set forth in Executive Order 14008 of January 27, 2021 (Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad).
Sec. 5
.
Investing in Good Jobs Task Force.
(a) There is established within the Executive Office of the President the Investing in Good Jobs Task Force (Task Force). The function of the Task Force is to coordinate policy development that supports efficient project delivery while also driving the creation of high-quality jobs and to otherwise support the effective implementation of this order. The Task Force shall be co-chaired by the Secretary of Labor and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of the National Economic Council or their designees.
(b) In addition to the Co-Chairs, the Task Force shall consist of the following members or their designees:
(i) the Secretary of the Interior;
(ii) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(iii) the Secretary of Commerce;
(iv) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;
(v) the Secretary of Transportation;
(vi) the Secretary of Energy;
(vii) the Secretary of Education;
(viii) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(ix) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;
(x) the Assistant to the President and National Climate Advisor;
(xi) the Senior Advisor to the President for International Climate Policy;
(xii) the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality;
(xiii) the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;
(xiv) the Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council;
(xv) the Assistant to the President and Director of the Gender Policy Council; and
(xvi) the heads of other executive departments, agencies, and offices as the Co-Chairs may from time to time invite to participate.
(c) The Task Force shall assist implementing agencies in promoting the implementation priorities identified in section 3 of this order. To do so, the Task Force shall:
(i) share and, as appropriate, develop best practices related to promoting adoption of the implementation priorities identified in section 3 of this order, and provide technical assistance to implementing agencies in implementing these best practices;
(ii) support implementing agencies as they develop expertise in promoting efficient project delivery while also driving the creation of high-quality jobs; and
(iii) engage in other appropriate activities as determined by the Task Force, consistent with applicable law, to support effective implementation of this order.
Sec. 6
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 6, 2024.
Executive Order 14127 of September 26, 2024
EO 14127

# Combating Emerging Firearms Threats and Improving School-Based Active-Shooter Drills
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
During 2020, the last year of the prior administration, homicides in the Nation increased nearly 30 percent over the previous year—the largest 1-year increase in murders ever recorded. After that, the Vice President and I took action to reduce gun crime and other forms of violent crime. By the middle of 2022, we had already taken more executive action to reduce gun violence than any other administration at that point
in time. On June 25, 2022, I signed into law the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (Public Law 117-159)—the most significant new gun violence prevention law in nearly 30 years. Rates of homicide in the United States are falling at one of the fastest rates ever recorded. Year-over-year comparison shows that 2023 had one of the largest declines in the homicide rate in recent history. This life-saving progress has continued in 2024. While we have made great progress, much more work remains to be done to reduce gun violence and save lives.
It is the policy of my Administration to coordinate across executive departments and agencies (agencies) to reduce gun violence and save lives. This order directs enhanced coordination for two key challenges: combating emerging firearms threats and understanding and improving school-based active-shooter drills.
One way to continue the progress on reducing gun violence is to stay ahead of emerging violent crime threats involving firearms. My Administration has always taken these threats seriously. In April 2021, one of my Administration's first executive actions to reduce gun violence was directed at stopping the proliferation of firearms without serial numbers, often referred to as “ghost guns.” To expand these efforts, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) of the Department of Justice established an Emerging Threats Center, which focuses ATF's resources on identifying developments in illicit firearm marketplaces, including the use of new technologies to make and unlawfully distribute undetectable firearms and devices that convert semiautomatic firearms into illegal machineguns. The Vice President and I strongly disagreed with the Supreme Court's decision to strike down an important gun safety regulation on bump stocks—the device used in the shooting at a crowded music festival in Las Vegas—and called on the Congress to clarify that this dangerous accessory is a machinegun.
The Court's decision addressing bump stocks did not alter the statutory prohibition on machinegun conversion devices, which are prohibited for non-governmental possession even when not installed on a firearm. The threat posed by the continued proliferation of these devices is particularly acute. These devices enable semiautomatic firearms, including easily concealable handguns, to match or exceed the rate of fire of many military machineguns with a single engagement of the trigger—up to 20 bullets in one second and 1,200 rounds in one minute. From 2017 through 2021, ATF recovered 5,454 of these devices—a 570 percent increase over the previous 5-year period. These devices are often illegally imported or illegally made on a 3D printer.
Unserialized, 3D printed firearms—which can be used for illicit purposes such as gun trafficking, possession by people convicted of felonies or subject to domestic violence restraining orders, or unlawful engagement in the business of manufacturing or selling firearms—are another emerging threat. These firearms can be 3D printed from computer code downloaded from the internet and produced without serial numbers, which law enforcement uses to trace firearms recovered in criminal investigations. Some 3D printed firearms can be rendered undetectable by magnetometers used to secure airports, courthouses, and certain events. 3D printing technology is developing quickly, which can cause the safety threat of 3D printed firearms to suddenly increase.
In addition to the threat of domestic crime, these emerging firearms threats pose a significant risk to the national security and foreign policy interests of the United States. Many foreign countries have heavily regulated automatic weapons and 3D printed and undetectable firearms. The wide availability of these emerging firearms threats would undermine other nations' gun laws and the safety and security of our allies. Technical data and software for 3D printed firearms and machinegun conversion devices can be used by international gangs, criminals, and terrorists in a manner contrary to United States national security and foreign policy interests.
Multiple agencies have the authority to help stop the proliferation of these emerging threats, and it is the policy of the United States to work collectively across agencies to identify threats, engage in information sharing, and work together to develop and implement effective strategies to combat these threats. Authorities that can address emerging firearms threats extend beyond the Gun Control Act (Public Law 90-618) and the National Firearms Act (Public Law 73-474). Focused and enhanced coordination is needed to ensure a unified and robust strategy for enforcing existing legal authorities and using every available tool and resource. This interagency effort will build on the life-saving work that has occurred to date to stop the proliferation of machinegun conversion devices, including the ongoing efforts at the Department of Justice and ATF.
My Administration also has invested significant resources in school safety and has taken steps to keeps firearms out of schools. These steps have focused on preventing unauthorized access to firearms for youth and individuals in crisis; supporting schools that are implementing evidence-based safety and gun-violence prevention and intervention solutions; and addressing the mental health needs of students, particularly those impacted by gun violence.
Keeping students and educators, including teachers and other school personnel, safe from gun violence in their schools is a top priority for my Administration, but there is more to do to make our schools safer. Since the mass shooting at Columbine High School in Colorado in 1999, according to one analysis, there have been more than 400 school shootings that exposed more than 375,000 students to gun violence. Exposure to school shootings takes a terrible toll on students and educators. A nationally representative study found that 51 percent of 14- to 17-year-olds in the United States worry about school shootings.
The majority of States require schools to conduct active-shooter drills for students and educators. About 95 percent of K-12 public schools in the United States conduct lockdown drills, which include drills to prepare for an active-shooter situation. These drills vary widely in their approach, and many parents, students, and educators have expressed concerns over the effectiveness of and trauma caused by some approaches to these drills.
Despite their ubiquity, there is very limited research on how to design and deploy these drills to maximize their effectiveness and minimize any collateral harms they might cause. While additional research is ongoing, it is difficult to conclusively determine which specific practices are most effective in preparing schools for active-shooter incidents, preventing injuries and fatalities, and minimizing any associated psychological impacts or traumas. The Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and the Department of Homeland
Security continue to work together on a range of school safety issues, including the beginnings of research into these important questions. It is time for these agencies to extend their efforts to help schools better design and conduct effective and age- and developmentally appropriate active-shooter drills.
Sec. 2
.
Definitions.
For purposes of this order:
(a) The term “machinegun” has the meaning given by 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(24) and 26 U.S.C. 5845(b), and includes a “machinegun conversion device,” which is any part designed and intended solely and exclusively, or combination of parts designed and intended, for use in converting a weapon into a machinegun.
(b) The term “undetectable firearm” means a firearm as proscribed by 18 U.S.C. 922(p).
(c) The term “3D printing” refers to the additive manufacturing process, during which producers transmit digital designs to 3D printers. The computerized design guides the fabrication of products, building them up layer by layer rather than cutting away from a large block of existing material as in most traditional manufacturing. This term includes additive manufacturing technology used to produce a firearm, firearm frame or receiver, or machinegun conversion device.
Sec. 3
.
Combating Emerging Firearms Threats.
(a) There is hereby established an interagency Emerging Firearms Threats Task Force (Task Force). The Task Force shall be chaired by the Director of the Office of Gun Violence Prevention. In addition to the Chair, the Task Force shall consist of the following members:
(i) the Secretary of State;
(ii) the Attorney General;
(iii) the Secretary of Commerce;
(iv) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(v) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
(vi) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
(vii) the Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor;
(viii) the Counsel to the President;
(ix) the Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council;
(x) the Deputy Assistant to the President and Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President; and
(xi) the heads of such other agencies and offices as the Chair may from time to time invite to participate.
(b) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Task Force shall submit to the President, through the Director of the Office of Gun Violence Prevention, a report containing a risk assessment and strategy to stop the proliferation of machinegun conversion devices, with a particular emphasis on the devices used to convert a standard, semiautomatic firearm to a machinegun. The risk assessment and strategy shall include:
(i) information regarding the use, recovery, origins, and distribution channels of machinegun conversion devices, including:
(A) the software or technology used for 3D printing machinegun conversion devices; and
(B) the origins of machinegun conversion devices that are seized at ports of entry, illegally imported into the United States, or otherwise recovered by law enforcement agencies in the United States;
(ii) an assessment of existing applicable legal authorities of the agencies represented on the Task Force and other agencies identified at the direction of the Chair to regulate software or technology used to make machinegun conversion devices, which shall include a review of export and import laws;
(iii) an assessment of the technological and legal feasibility of 3D printing companies designing 3D printers that block the functional capacities of software that can 3D print machinegun conversion devices;
(iv) an assessment of the operational capabilities and legal authorities of agencies to detect, intercept, and seize machinegun conversion devices that are illegally imported or illegally produced domestically, including through 3D printing;
(v) an interagency plan for expanding U.S. Customs and Border Protection initiatives with Federal, State, Tribal, and local law enforcement to stop the flow into the United States of machinegun conversion devices;
(vi) an interagency plan for seizing as criminal instrumentalities 3D printers that are acquired for the purpose of illegally making machinegun conversion devices and recommendations for additional administrative actions necessary to facilitate such seizure;
(vii) an interagency plan for expanding partnerships with State, Tribal, and local law enforcement for Federal training on identifying machinegun conversion devices, tracing the firearms to which they were attached, and submitting seizure data to ATF;
(viii) an interagency plan—with input from 3D data providers, technology companies, and civil society—for voluntary, regulatory, and international mechanisms to limit the availability on the internet of files used for the purpose of unlawfully producing machinegun conversion devices;
(ix) an interagency plan for effective coordination to limit the illegal export and import of software or technology on the internet that can be readily used to 3D print machinegun conversion devices; and
(x) recommendations for any additional authorities or funding agencies need from the Congress to more effectively address the proliferation of machinegun conversion devices.
(c) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Task Force shall submit to the President, through the Director of the Office of Gun Violence Prevention, a report containing a risk assessment and strategy to address the emerging threat related to 3D printed firearms, including unserialized or undetectable 3D printed firearms. The risk assessment and strategy shall include:
(i) information regarding the usage, recovery, origins, and distribution channels of 3D printed unserialized firearms and 3D printed
undetectable firearms, including the software or technology used for 3D printing unserialized firearms or undetectable firearms;
(ii) an assessment of how 3D printing of firearms can facilitate violation of the Undetectable Firearms Act (18 U.S.C. 922(p));
(iii) an assessment of existing authorities, including export and import laws, that regulate software or technology used for 3D printing firearms, including undetectable firearms;
(iv) an assessment of the technological feasibility of 3D printers proactively blocking the functional capacities of software used to 3D print undetectable firearms;
(v) an interagency plan for seizing as criminal instrumentalities 3D printers acquired for the purpose of illegally producing or dealing in firearms, including unserialized or undetectable firearms, or for the purpose of producing firearms for criminal purposes, and recommendations for additional administrative actions that may be necessary to facilitate such seizures;
(vi) an interagency plan for effective coordination between the Department of Justice and the Department of Commerce to limit the illegal export or import of software or technology on the internet that can be readily used to illegally 3D print firearms, including unserialized or undetectable firearms;
(vii) an interagency plan for expanding partnerships with Federal, State, Tribal, and local law enforcement to train them on identifying undetectable or unserialized firearms made with 3D printing software or technology and reporting recoveries of such firearms to ATF; and
(viii) recommendations for any additional authorities or funding the agencies need from the Congress to more effectively address the problem of 3D printed firearms, including unserialized or undetectable firearms.
(d) The Task Force shall be responsible for interagency coordination necessary to facilitate agencies' implementation of the recommendations and strategies in the reports described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section.
(e) At the direction of the Chair, the Task Force may coordinate interagency efforts to address additional emerging firearms threats.
Sec. 4
.
Understanding and Improving School-Based Active-Shooter Drills.
(a) Within 110 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Surgeon General, shall develop and publish information about school-based active-shooter drills for schools, including institutions of higher education, and for State, Tribal, and local educational agencies. Such information shall include:
(i) a summary of existing research and recommendations on active-shooter drills, including information on:
(A) how educators can collaborate within schools—as well as with families; communities; State, Tribal, and local law enforcement; and other emergency response officials—to implement drills that effectively prepare a response to school-based active-shooter situations, including by accounting for the particular needs of educators and students with
disabilities; sharing evidence-informed age- and developmentally appropriate practices, such as those that prevent or limit trauma and psychological harm to those participating in drills; and facilitating effective and timely communication with students, educators, first responders, family members, and other relevant stakeholders; and
(B) how schools must comply with Federal civil rights laws prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, and disability when creating, implementing, and evaluating active-shooter drills, including by effectively serving educators and students with disabilities as well as ensuring that communications with educators and students consider their language-related needs (
e.g.,
communicating in a manner and language that educators and students are able to understand); and
(ii) resources on school-based active-shooter drills, including information on:
(A) the types of drills that may be appropriate to prepare students and educators for school-based active-shooter situations; and
(B) how to create, implement, and evaluate evidence-informed, effective, and age- and developmentally appropriate school-based drills, including:
(1) how best to engage with students, family members, educators, law enforcement, and other relevant stakeholders on the process for creating, implementing, and evaluating these drills;
(2) how best to communicate with students, family members, educators, and other relevant stakeholders before, during, and after the drill, including through the use of notification plans for students, educators, parents, and other parties;
(3) how to prevent or limit trauma or psychological distress associated with active-shooter drills and support students and educators who may experience such trauma or psychological distress; and
(4) how best to serve people with disabilities and those with unique language-related needs.
(b) Within 110 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Surgeon General, shall develop and publish information on recommended areas for future research that can help inform policymakers, educators, students, parents, and other relevant stakeholders about different types of school-based active-shooter drills, the appropriate frequency of such drills, and the effects of such drills on students and educators. This information shall include potential funding sources that could help advance research on, and inform improvements to, active-shooter drills.
Sec. 5
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 26, 2024.
Executive Order 14128 of November 21, 2024
EO 14128

# Establishing a Second Emergency Board To Investigate a Dispute Between New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and Its Locomotive Engineers Represented by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen
A dispute exists between the New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and its Locomotive Engineers represented by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen.
The dispute has not heretofore been adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, as amended, 45 U.S.C. 151-188 (RLA).
An emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute was established on July 25, 2024, by Executive Order 14125 of July 24, 2024 (Establishing an Emergency Board to Investigate a Dispute Between New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and Its Locomotive Engineers Represented by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen). That emergency board terminated upon submission of its report to the President. Subsequently, its recommendations were not accepted by the parties.
A party empowered by the RLA has requested that the President establish a second emergency board pursuant to section 9A of the RLA (45 U.S.C. 159a).
Section 9A(e) of the RLA provides that the President, upon such request, shall appoint a second emergency board to investigate and report on the dispute.
NOW, THEREFORE, by the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including section 9A of the RLA, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Establishment of a Second Emergency Board (Board).
There is established, effective 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on November 22, 2024, a Board composed of a chair and two other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the President to investigate and report on the dispute. No member shall be pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railroad employees or any carrier. The Board shall perform its functions subject to the availability of funds.
Sec. 2
.
Report.
As provided by section 9A(f) of the RLA, within 30 days after the creation of the Board, the parties to the dispute shall submit to the Board final offers for settlement of the dispute. As provided by section 9A(g) of the RLA, within 30 days after the submission of final offers for settlement of the dispute, the Board shall submit a report to the President setting forth the Board's selection of the most reasonable offer.
Sec. 3
.
Maintaining Conditions.
As provided by section 9A(h) of the RLA, from the time the request to establish the Board is made until 60 days after the Board submits its report to the President, the parties to the controversy shall make no change in the conditions out of which the dispute arose except by agreement of the parties.
Sec. 4
.
Records Maintenance.
The records and files of the Board are records of the Office of the President and upon the Board's termination shall be maintained in the physical custody of the National Mediation Board.
Sec. 5
.
Expiration.
The Board shall terminate upon the submission of the report to the President provided for in section 2 of this order.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 21, 2024.
Executive Order 14129 of December 18, 2024
EO 14129

# Providing for the Closing of Executive Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government on December 24, 2024
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government shall be closed and their employees excused from duty on Tuesday, December 24, 2024, the day before Christmas Day.
Sec. 2
. The heads of executive departments and agencies may determine that certain offices and installations of their organizations, or parts thereof, must remain open and that certain employees must report for duty on December 24, 2024, for reasons of national security, defense, or other public need.
Sec. 3
. December 24, 2024, shall be considered as falling within the scope of Executive Order 11582 of February 11, 1971, and of 5 U.S.C. 5546 and 6103(b) and other similar statutes insofar as they relate to the pay and leave of employees of the United States.
Sec. 4
. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall take such actions as may be necessary to implement this order.
Sec. 5
.
General Provisions
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 18, 2024.
Executive Order 14130 of December 20, 2024
EO 14130

# 2024 Amendments to the Manual for Courts Martial, United States
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. 801-946a), and in order to prescribe additions and amendments to the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, prescribed by Executive Order 12473 of April 13, 1984, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
. Part II, Part III, Part IV, and Part V of the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, are amended as described in the Annex attached to and made a part of this order.
Sec. 2
. With this order, I hereby prescribe regulations for the randomized selection of qualified personnel as members of a court-martial to the maximum extent practicable, pursuant to section 543 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, Public Law 117-263 (10 U.S.C. 825(e)(4)).
Sec. 3
. Except as provided in sections 4 and 5 of this order, these amendments shall take effect on the date of this order, subject to the following:
(a) Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the date of this order that was not punishable when committed or omitted.
(b) Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the date of this order, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if these amendments had not been prescribed.
Sec. 4
. The amendments to Rule for Courts-Martial (R.C.M.) 908(c)(3), R.C.M. 1205(a), and R.C.M. 1209(a)(1) shall take effect on December 22, 2024, subject to the following:
(a) Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the effective date that was not punishable when committed or omitted.
(b) Nothing in these amendments shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the effective date, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if these amendments had not been prescribed.
Sec. 5
. The amendment to R.C.M. 503(a)(1) shall take effect on December 23, 2024, subject to the following:
(a) Nothing in this amendment shall be construed to make punishable any act committed or omitted prior to the effective date that was not punishable when committed or omitted.
(b) Nothing in this amendment shall be construed to invalidate any nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action begun prior to the effective date, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if this amendment had not been prescribed.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 20, 2024
ED27DE24.258
ED27DE24.259
ED27DE24.260
ED27DE24.261
ED27DE24.262
ED27DE24.263
ED27DE24.264
ED27DE24.265
ED27DE24.266
ED27DE24.267
ED27DE24.268
ED27DE24.269
ED27DE24.270
ED27DE24.271
ED27DE24.272
ED27DE24.273
ED27DE24.274
ED27DE24.275
ED27DE24.276
ED27DE24.277
ED27DE24.278
ED27DE24.279
ED27DE24.280
ED27DE24.281
ED27DE24.282
ED27DE24.283
ED27DE24.284
ED27DE24.285
ED27DE24.286
ED27DE24.287
ED27DE24.288
ED27DE24.289
Executive Order 14131 of December 20, 2024
EO 14131

# Amendments to Executive Orders Relating to Certain Certificates and Badges
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Amendments to Executive Order 12793, as Amended
. Executive Order 12793 of March 20, 1992 (Continuing the Presidential Service Certificate and the Presidential Service Badge), as amended by Executive Order 13286 of February 28, 2003 (Amendment of Executive Orders, and Other Actions, in Connection With the Transfer of Certain Functions to the Secretary of Homeland Security), is further amended by:
(a) Amending section 1 to read as follows:
“
Section 1
.
Presidential Service Certificate
. The Presidential Service Certificate (Certificate) is hereby continued, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this order. The Certificate shall be awarded in the name of the President of the United States to members of the United States Uniformed Services who have been assigned to the White House Office; to military units and support facilities under the administration of the White House Military Office; or to other direct support positions within the Executive Office of the President (EOP). The Certificate shall be awarded by the Secretary of the military department concerned, or, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, by the Secretary of Homeland Security, and, in the case of members of the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, by the Secretary of Commerce or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, respectively. The Certificate shall not be issued to any member who is issued a Vice Presidential Certificate, or similar EOP Certificate, for the same period of service. Such assignment must be for a period of at least 1 year, subsequent to January 21, 1989.”; and
(b) Amending section 2 to read as follows:
“
Sec. 2
.
Presidential Service Badge
. The Presidential Service Badge (Badge) is hereby continued, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this order. The Badge shall be awarded to those members of the United States Uniformed Services who have been granted the Certificate and shall be awarded in the same manner in which the Certificate has been given. The Badge shall be worn as a part of the uniform of those individuals under such regulations as their respective Secretaries may severally prescribe.”.
Sec. 2
.
Amendments to Executive Order 11926, as Amended
. Executive Order 11926 of July 19, 1976 (The Vice Presidential Service Badge), as amended by Executive Order 13286 and by Executive Order 13373 of March 10, 2005 (Amendments to Executive Order 11926 Relating to the Vice Presidential Service Badge), is further amended by:
(a) Amending section 1 to read as follows:
“
Section 1
. There is established a Vice Presidential Service Badge to be awarded in the name of the Vice President of the United States of America to members of the United States Uniformed Services who have been assigned to duty in the Office of the Vice President for a period of at least 1 year subsequent to December 19, 1974, or who have been assigned to perform duties predominantly for the Vice President for a period of at least 1 year subsequent to January 20, 2001, in the implementation of Public Law 93-346, as amended, or in military units and support facilities to which section 1 of Executive Order 12793 of March 20, 1992, as amended, refers.”;
(b) Amending section 2 to read as follows:
“
Sec. 2
. The Vice Presidential Service Badge may be awarded, upon recommendation of the Vice President's designee (with the concurrence of the Director of the White House Military Office in the case of personnel in military units or support facilities to which section 1 of Executive Order 12793, as amended, refers), by the Secretary of the military department concerned, or, when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the Navy, by the Secretary of Homeland Security, to military personnel of their respective services who have been assigned to duty in the Office of the Vice President and, in the case of members of the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service so assigned, by the Secretary of Commerce or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, respectively.”;
(c) Amending section 4 to read as follows:
“
Sec. 4
. Upon award, the Vice Presidential Service Badge may be worn as a part of the uniform of an individual both during and after their assignment to duty in the Office of the Vice President.”; and
(d) Amending section 6 to read as follows:
“
Sec. 6
. Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 1 and 2 of this order, any member of the United States Uniformed Services, who has been assigned to duty in the Office of the Vice President, or who has been assigned to perform duties predominantly for the Vice President, in the implementation of Public Law 93-346, as amended, or in military units and support facilities to which section 1 of Executive Order 12793, as amended, refers, is authorized, unless otherwise directed by the Director of the White House Military Office in the case of personnel in military units and support facilities to which section 1 of Executive Order 12793, as amended, refers, to wear the Vice Presidential Service Badge on their uniform commencing on the first day of such duty and thereafter while assigned to such duty.”.
Sec. 3
.
General Provisions
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 20, 2024.
Executive Order 14132 of December 23, 2024
EO 14132

# Adjustments of Certain Rates of Pay
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Statutory Pay Systems.
The rates of basic pay or salaries of the statutory pay systems (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 5302(1)), as adjusted under 5 U.S.C. 5303, are set forth on the schedules attached hereto and made a part hereof:
(a) The General Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5332(a)) at Schedule 1;
(b) The Foreign Service Schedule (22 U.S.C. 3963) at Schedule 2; and
(c) The schedules for the Veterans Health Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs (38 U.S.C. 7306, 7401, 7404; section 301(a) of Public Law 102-40) at Schedule 3.
Sec. 2
.
Senior Executive Service.
The ranges of rates of basic pay for senior executives in the Senior Executive Service, as established pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5382, are set forth on Schedule 4 attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Sec. 3
.
Certain Executive, Legislative, and Judicial Salaries.
The rates of basic pay or salaries for the following offices and positions are set forth on the schedules attached hereto and made a part hereof:
(a) The Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5311-5318) at Schedule 5;
(b) The Vice President (3 U.S.C. 104) and the Congress (2 U.S.C. 4501) at Schedule 6; and
(c) Justices and judges (28 U.S.C. 5, 44(d), 135, 252, and 461(a)) at Schedule 7.
Sec. 4
.
Uniformed Services.
The rates of monthly basic pay (37 U.S.C. 203(a)) for members of the uniformed services, as adjusted under 37 U.S.C. 1009, and the rate of monthly cadet or midshipman pay (37 U.S.C. 203(c)) are set forth on Schedule 8 attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Sec. 5
.
Locality-Based Comparability Payments.
(a) Pursuant to section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and my authority to implement an alternative level of comparability payments under section 5304a of title 5, United States Code, locality-based comparability payments shall be paid in accordance with Schedule 9 attached hereto and made a part hereof.
(b) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall take such actions as may be necessary to implement these payments and to publish appropriate notice of such payments in the
Federal Register
.
Sec. 6
.
Administrative Law Judges.
Pursuant to section 5372 of title 5, United States Code, the rates of basic pay for administrative law judges are set forth on Schedule 10 attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Sec. 7
.
Effective Dates.
Schedule 8 is effective January 1, 2025. The other schedules contained herein are effective on the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2025.
Sec. 8
.
Prior Order Superseded.
Executive Order 14113 of December 21, 2023 (Adjustments of Certain Rates of Pay), is superseded as of the effective dates specified in section 7 of this order.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 23, 2024.
ED30DE24.006
ED30DE24.007
ED30DE24.008
ED30DE24.009
ED30DE24.010
ED30DE24.011
ED30DE24.012
ED30DE24.013
ED30DE24.014
ED30DE24.015
ED30DE24.016
Executive Order 14133 of December 30, 2024
EO 14133

# Providing for the Closing of Executive Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government on January 9, 2025
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government shall be closed on January 9, 2025, as a mark of respect for James Earl Carter, Jr., the thirty-ninth President of the United States.
Sec. 2
. The heads of executive departments and agencies may determine that certain offices and installations of their organizations, or parts thereof, must remain open and that certain employees must report for duty on January 9, 2025, for reasons of national security, defense, or other public need.
Sec. 3
. January 9, 2025, shall be considered as falling within the scope of Executive Order 11582 of February 11, 1971, and of 5 U.S.C. 5546 and 6103(b) and other similar statutes insofar as they relate to the pay and leave of employees of the United States.
Sec. 4
. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall take such actions as may be necessary to implement this order.
Sec. 5
.
General Provisions
. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 30, 2024.
Title 3—The President
Other Presidential Documents

# OTHER PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Page
Subchapter A—[Reserved]
Subchapter B—Administrative Orders
467
Subchapter C—Reorganization Plans
[None]
Subchapter D—Designations
[None]

# Subchapter B—Administrative Orders
Notice of February 7, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in and in Relation to Burma
On February 10, 2021, by Executive Order 14014, I declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the situation in and in relation to Burma.
The situation in and in relation to Burma, and in particular the February 1, 2021 coup, in which the military overthrew the democratically elected civilian government of Burma and unjustly arrested and detained government leaders, politicians, human rights defenders, journalists, and religious leaders, thereby rejecting the will of the people of Burma as expressed in elections held in November 2020 and undermining the country's democratic transition and rule of law, continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on February 10, 2021, must continue in effect beyond February 10, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14014 with respect to the situation in and in relation to Burma.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 7, 2024.
Notice of February 7, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Widespread Humanitarian Crisis in Afghanistan and the Potential for a Deepening Economic Collapse in Afghanistan
On February 11, 2022, by Executive Order 14064, I declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and the potential for a deepening economic collapse in Afghanistan.
The widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan—including the urgent needs of the people of Afghanistan for food security, livelihoods support, water, sanitation, health, hygiene, and shelter and settlement assistance, among other basic human needs—and the potential for a deepening economic collapse in Afghanistan continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. In addition, the preservation of certain property of Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) held in the United States by United States financial institutions is of the utmost importance to addressing this national emergency and the welfare of the people of Afghanistan. Various parties, including representatives of victims of terrorism, have asserted legal claims against certain property of DAB or indicated in public court filings an intent to make such claims. This property is blocked under Executive Order 14064.
For these reasons, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14064 of February 11, 2022, must continue in effect beyond February 11, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14064 with respect to the widespread humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and the potential for a deepening economic collapse in Afghanistan.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 7, 2024.
Memorandum of February 8, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 1(j)(4) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the functions and authority vested in the President by section 1(j)(4) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a(j)(4)) to submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives the justification required in conjunction with the renewal of a temporary appointment pursuant to section 1(j)(3) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2651a(j)(3)).
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, February 8, 2024.
Memorandum of February 14, 2024

# Deferred Enforced Departure for Certain Palestinians

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State [and] the Secretary of Homeland Security
Following the horrific October 7, 2023, terrorist attack by Hamas against Israel, and Israel's ensuing military response, humanitarian conditions in the Palestinian territories, and primarily Gaza, have significantly deteriorated. While I remain focused on improving the humanitarian situation, many civilians remain in danger; therefore, I am directing the deferral of removal of certain Palestinians who are present in the United States.
Pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct the foreign relations of the United States, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy interest of the United States to defer for 18 months the removal of any Palestinian subject to the conditions and exceptions provided below.
Accordingly, I hereby direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take appropriate measures to defer for 18 months the removal of any Palestinian who is present in the United States on the date of this memorandum, except for those:
(1) who have voluntarily returned to the Palestinian territories after the date of this memorandum;
(2) who have not continuously resided in the United States since the date of this memorandum;
(3) who are inadmissible under section 212(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)) or deportable under section 237(a)(4) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(4));
(4) who have been convicted of any felony or two or more misdemeanors committed in the United States, or who meet any of the criteria set forth in section 208(b)(2)(A) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1158(b)(2)(A));
(5) who are subject to extradition;
(6) whose presence in the United States the Secretary of Homeland Security has determined is not in the interest of the United States or presents a danger to public safety; or
(7) whose presence in the United States the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe would have potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United States.
I further direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take appropriate measures to authorize employment for noncitizens whose removal has been deferred, as provided by this memorandum, for the duration of such deferral, and to consider suspending regulatory requirements with respect to F-1 nonimmigrant students who are Palestinians as the Secretary of Homeland Security determines to be appropriate.
The Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, February 14, 2024.
Memorandum of February 16, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 1230 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of Defense[, and] the Attorney General
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State and, as appropriate, the Attorney General, the authority to transmit to certain congressional committees the report required by section 1230 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31).
The delegation in this memorandum shall apply to any provision of any future public law that is the same or substantially the same as the provision referenced in this memorandum.
The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, February 16, 2024.
Notice of February 21, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Cuba and of the Emergency Authority Relating to the Regulation of the Anchorage and Movement of Vessels
On March 1, 1996, by Proclamation 6867, a national emergency was declared to address the disturbance or threatened disturbance of international relations caused by the February 24, 1996, destruction by the Cuban government of two unarmed, United States-registered civilian aircraft in international airspace north of Cuba. On February 26, 2004, by Proclamation 7757, the national emergency was expanded to deny monetary and material support to the Cuban government. On February 24, 2016, by Proclamation 9398, and on February 22, 2018, by Proclamation 9699, the national emergency was further modified based on continued disturbances or threatened disturbances of the international relations of the United States related to Cuba. The Cuban government has not demonstrated that it will refrain from the use of excessive force against United States vessels or aircraft that may engage in memorial activities or peaceful protest north of Cuba.
Further, the unauthorized entry of any United States-registered vessel into Cuban territorial waters continues to be detrimental to the foreign policy of the United States because such entry could facilitate a mass migration from Cuba. It continues to be United States policy that a mass migration from Cuba would endanger United States national security by posing a disturbance or threatened disturbance of the international relations of the United States.
Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing the national emergency with respect to Cuba and the emergency authority relating to the regulation of the anchorage and movement of vessels set out in Proclamation 6867, as amended by Proclamation 7757, Proclamation 9398, and Proclamation 9699.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 21, 2024.
Notice of February 21, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Libya
On February 25, 2011, by Executive Order 13566, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the actions of Colonel Muammar Qadhafi, his government, and close associates, which took extreme measures against the people of Libya, including by using weapons of war, mercenaries, and wanton violence against unarmed civilians. In addition, there was a serious risk that Libyan state assets would be misappropriated by Qadhafi, members of his government, members of his family, or his close associates if those assets were not protected. The foregoing circumstances, the prolonged attacks, and the increased numbers of Libyans seeking refuge in other countries from the attacks caused a deterioration in the security of Libya and posed a serious risk to its stability.
On April 19, 2016, the President signed Executive Order 13726, which expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566. The President found that the ongoing violence in Libya, including attacks by armed groups against Libyan state facilities, foreign missions in Libya, and critical infrastructure, as well as human rights abuses, violations of the arms embargo imposed by United Nations Security Council Resolution 1970 (2011), and misappropriation of Libya's natural resources threaten the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, democratic transition, and territorial integrity of Libya, and thereby constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.
The situation in Libya continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, and measures are needed to protect against the diversion of assets or other abuses by members of Qadhafi's family, their associates, and other persons hindering Libyan national reconciliation.
For this reason, the national emergency declared on February 25, 2011, and expanded on April 19, 2016, must continue in effect beyond February 25, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
February 21, 2024.
Notice of March 4, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Ukraine
On March 6, 2014, by Executive Order 13660, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the actions and policies of persons that undermine democratic processes and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its peace, security, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity; and contribute to the misappropriation of its assets.
On March 16, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13661, which expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13660, and found that the actions and policies of the Government of the Russian Federation with respect to Ukraine undermine democratic processes and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its peace, security, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity; and contribute to the misappropriation of its assets.
On March 20, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13662, which further expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13660, as expanded in scope in Executive Order 13661, and found that the actions and policies of the Government of the Russian Federation, including its purported annexation of Crimea and its use of force in Ukraine, continue to undermine democratic processes and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its peace, security, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity; and contribute to the misappropriation of its assets.
On December 19, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13685, to take additional steps to address the Russian occupation of the Crimea region of Ukraine.
On September 20, 2018, the President issued Executive Order 13849, to take additional steps to implement certain statutory sanctions with respect to the Russian Federation.
On February 21, 2022, the President issued Executive Order 14065, which further expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13660, as expanded in scope in Executive Orders 13661 and 13662, and relied on for additional steps taken in Executive Orders 13685 and 13849, and found that the Russian Federation's purported recognition of the so-called Donetsk People's Republic or Luhansk People's Republic regions of Ukraine contradicts Russia's commitments under the Minsk agreements and further threatens the peace, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and thereby constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.
The actions and policies addressed in these Executive Orders continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13660, which was expanded in scope in Executive Order 13661, Executive Order 13662, and Executive Order 14065, and
under which additional steps were taken in Executive Order 13685 and Executive Order 13849, must continue in effect beyond March 6, 2024.
Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13660.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 4, 2024.
Notice of March 5, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Venezuela
On March 8, 2015, the President issued Executive Order 13692, declaring a national emergency with respect to the situation in Venezuela, including the Government of Venezuela's erosion of human rights guarantees, persecution of political opponents, curtailment of press freedoms, use of violence and human rights violations and abuses in response to antigovernment protests, and arbitrary arrest and detention of antigovernment protesters, as well as the exacerbating presence of significant government corruption.
The President took additional steps pursuant to this national emergency in Executive Order 13808 of August 24, 2017; Executive Order 13827 of March 19, 2018; Executive Order 13835 of May 21, 2018; Executive Order 13850 of November 1, 2018; Executive Order 13857 of January 25, 2019; and Executive Order 13884 of August 5, 2019.
The circumstances, as described in Executive Order 13692 and subsequent Executive Orders issued with respect to Venezuela, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13692.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 5, 2024.
Order of March 11, 2024

# Sequestration Order for Fiscal Year 2025 Pursuant to Section 251A of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, as Amended
By the authority vested in me as President by the laws of the United States of America, and in accordance with section 251A of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act (the “Act”), as amended, 2 U.S.C. 901a, I hereby order that, on October 1, 2024, direct spending budgetary resources for fiscal year 2025 in each non-exempt budget account be reduced by the amount calculated by the Office of Management and Budget in its report to the Congress of March 11, 2024.
All sequestrations shall be made in strict accordance with the requirements of section 251A of the Act and the specifications of the Office of Management and Budget's report of March 11, 2024, prepared pursuant to section 251A(9) of the Act.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 11, 2024.
Notice of March 12, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Iran
On March 15, 1995, by Executive Order 12957, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the actions and policies of the Government of Iran. On May 6, 1995, the President issued Executive Order 12959, imposing more comprehensive sanctions on Iran to further respond to this threat. On August 19, 1997, the President issued Executive Order 13059, consolidating and clarifying those previous orders. The President took additional steps pursuant to this national emergency in Executive Order 13553 of September 28, 2010; Executive Order 13574 of May 23, 2011; Executive Order 13590 of November 20, 2011; Executive Order 13599 of February 5, 2012; Executive Order 13606 of April 22, 2012; Executive Order 13608 of May 1, 2012; Executive Order 13622 of July 30, 2012; Executive Order 13628 of October 9, 2012; Executive Order 13645 of June 3, 2013; Executive Order 13716 of January 16, 2016, which revoked Executive Orders 13574, 13590, 13622, 13645, and provisions of Executive Order 13628; Executive Order 13846 of August 6, 2018, which revoked Executive Orders 13716 and 13628; Executive Order 13871 of May 8, 2019; Executive Order 13876 of June 24, 2019; Executive Order 13902 of January 10, 2020; and Executive Order 13949 of September 21, 2020.
The actions and policies of the Government of Iran—including its proliferation and development of missiles and other asymmetric and conventional weapons capabilities, its network and campaign of regional aggression, its support for terrorist groups, and the malign activities of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and its surrogates—continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.
For these reasons, the national emergency declared on March 15, 1995, must continue in effect beyond March 15, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to Iran declared in Executive Order 12957. The emergency declared by Executive Order 12957 constitutes an emergency separate from that declared on November 14, 1979, by Executive Order 12170, in connection with the hostage crisis. This renewal, therefore, is distinct from the emergency renewal of November 7, 2023.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 12, 2024.
Memorandum of March 12, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $126 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, March 12, 2024.
Notice of March 26, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities
On April 1, 2015, by Executive Order 13694, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the increasing prevalence and severity of malicious cyber-enabled activities originating from, or directed by persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside the United States. On December 28, 2016, the President issued Executive Order 13757 to take additional steps to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13694.
These significant malicious cyber-enabled activities continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on April 1, 2015, must continue in effect beyond April 1, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13694.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 26, 2024.
Notice of March 26, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to South Sudan
On April 3, 2014, by Executive Order 13664, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the situation in and in relation to South Sudan, which has been marked by activities that threaten the peace, security, or stability of South Sudan and the surrounding region, including widespread violence and atrocities, human rights abuses, recruitment and use of child soldiers, attacks on peacekeepers, and obstruction of humanitarian operations.
The situation in and in relation to South Sudan continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on April 3, 2014, must continue in effect beyond April 3, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13664.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
March 26, 2024.
Memorandum of March 26, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State:
(1) the authority under section 506(a)(2) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $10 million in articles and services from the inventory and resources of any agency of the United States Government and military education and training from the Department of Defense, for the purposes and under the authorities of chapter 8 of part I of the FAA to provide anti-crime and counternarcotics assistance to Haiti; and
(2) the authority to make the determination required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, March 26, 2024.
Notice of April 9, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Somalia
On April 12, 2010, by Executive Order 13536, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the deterioration of the security situation and the persistence of violence in Somalia; acts of piracy and armed robbery at sea off the coast of Somalia, which have been the subject of United Nations Security Council resolutions; and violations of the arms embargo imposed by the United Nations Security Council.
On July 20, 2012, the President issued Executive Order 13620 to take additional steps to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13536 in view of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2036 of February 22, 2012, and Resolution 2002 of July 29, 2011, and to address: exports of charcoal from Somalia, which generate significant revenue for al-Shabaab; the misappropriation of Somali public assets; and certain acts of violence committed against civilians in Somalia, all of which contribute to the deterioration of the security situation and the persistence of violence in Somalia.
The situation with respect to Somalia continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on April 12, 2010, and the measures adopted on that date and on July 20, 2012, to deal with that threat, must continue in effect beyond April 12, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13536.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 9, 2024.
Notice of April 9, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Specified Harmful Foreign Activities of the Government of the Russian Federation
On April 15, 2021, by Executive Order 14024, I declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by specified harmful foreign activities of the Government of the Russian Federation. On March 8, 2022, I issued Executive Order 14066 to expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14024. On August 20, 2021, March 11, 2022, April 6, 2022, and December 22, 2023, I issued Executive Orders 14039, 14068, 14071, and 14114, respectively, to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14024.
Specified harmful foreign activities of the Government of the Russian Federation—in particular, efforts to undermine the conduct of free and fair democratic elections and democratic institutions in the United States and its allies and partners; to engage in and facilitate malicious cyber-enabled activities against the United States and its allies and partners; to foster and use transnational corruption to influence foreign governments; to pursue extraterritorial activities targeting dissidents or journalists; to undermine
security in countries and regions important to United States national security; and to violate well-established principles of international law, including respect for the territorial integrity of states—continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14024, which was expanded in scope by Executive Order 14066, and with respect to which additional steps were taken in Executive Orders 14039, 14068, 14071, and 14114, must continue in effect beyond April 15, 2024.
Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14024.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 9, 2024.
Memorandum of April 12, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State:
(1) the authority under section 506(a)(2) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $60 million in articles and services from the inventory and resources of any agency of the United States Government and military education and training from the Department of Defense for the purposes and under the authorities of chapter 8 of part I of the FAA to provide anti-crime and counternarcotics assistance to countries that contribute personnel to the Multinational Security Support Mission for Haiti and to the Haitian National Police; and
(2) the authority to make the determination required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, April 12, 2024.
Notice of April 16, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency and of the Emergency Authority Relating to the Regulation of the Anchorage and Movement of Russian-Affiliated Vessels to United States Ports
On April 21, 2022, by Proclamation 10371, I declared a national emergency by reason of a disturbance or threatened disturbance of international relations of the United States and authorized the Secretary of Homeland Security to regulate the anchorage and movement of Russian-affiliated vessels, pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) and section 1 of title II of Public Law 65-24, ch. 30, June 15, 1917, as amended (Magnuson Act) (46 U.S.C. 70051).
The policies and actions of the Government of the Russian Federation to continue the premeditated, unjustified, unprovoked, and brutal war against Ukraine continue to constitute a national emergency by reason of a disturbance or threatened disturbance of international relations of the United States. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to the Russian Federation and the emergency authority relating to the regulation of the anchorage and movement of Russian-affiliated vessels to United States ports set out in Proclamation 10371.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
April 16, 2024.
Memorandum of April 24, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $145 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, April 24, 2024.
Notice of May 8, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply Chain
On May 15, 2019, by Executive Order 13873, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the unrestricted acquisition and use of certain information and communications technology and services transactions.
The unrestricted acquisition or use in the United States of information and communications technology or services designed, developed, manufactured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of foreign adversaries augments the ability of these foreign adversaries to create and exploit vulnerabilities in information and communications technology or services, with potentially catastrophic effects. This threat continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on May 15, 2019, must continue in effect beyond May 15, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13873 with respect to securing the information and communications technology and services supply chain.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 8, 2024.
Notice of May 8, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Actions of the Government of Syria
On May 11, 2004, pursuant to his authority under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and the Syria Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-175), the President issued Executive Order 13338, in which he declared a national emergency with respect to the actions of the Government of Syria. The national emergency was modified in scope and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order 13399 of April 25, 2006, Executive Order 13460 of February 13, 2008, Executive Order 13572 of April 29, 2011, Executive Order 13573 of May 18, 2011, Executive Order 13582 of August 17, 2011, Executive Order 13606 of April 22, 2012, and Executive Order 13608 of May 1, 2012.
The President took these actions to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the actions of the Government of Syria in supporting terrorism, maintaining its then-existing occupation of Lebanon, pursuing weapons of mass destruction and missile programs, and undermining United States and international efforts with respect to the stabilization and reconstruction of Iraq.
The regime's brutality and repression of the Syrian people, who have called for freedom and a representative government, not only endangers the Syrian people themselves, but also generates instability throughout the region. The Syrian regime's actions and policies, including with respect to chemical weapons and supporting terrorist organizations, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. As a result, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13338, which was expanded in scope in Executive Order 13572, and with respect to which additional steps were taken in Executive Order 13399, Executive Order 13460, Executive Order 13573, Executive Order 13582, Executive Order 13606, and Executive Order 13608, must continue in effect beyond May 11, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared with respect to the actions of the Government of Syria.
In addition, the United States condemns the brutal violence and human rights violations and abuses of the Assad regime and its Russian and Iranian enablers. The United States calls on the Assad regime, and its backers, to stop its violent war against its own people, enact a nationwide ceasefire, facilitate the unhindered delivery of humanitarian assistance to all Syrians in need, and negotiate a political settlement in Syria in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 2254. The United States will consider changes in policies and actions of the Government of Syria in determining whether to continue or terminate this national emergency in the future.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 8, 2024.
Notice of May 8, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Central African Republic
On May 12, 2014, by Executive Order 13667, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the situation in and in relation to the Central African Republic, which has been marked by a breakdown of law and order; intersectarian tension; the pervasive, often forced recruitment and use of child soldiers; and widespread violence and atrocities, including those committed by Kremlin-linked and Yevgeniy Prigozhin-affiliated entities such as the Wagner Group, and which threatens the peace, security, or stability of the Central African Republic and neighboring states.
The situation in and in relation to the Central African Republic continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13667 on May 12, 2014, to deal with that threat must continue in effect beyond May 12, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared with respect to the Central African Republic.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 8, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-04 of May 8, 2024

# Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of the Treasury[, and] the Secretary of Energy
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, after carefully considering the reports submitted to the
Congress by the Energy Information Administration, including the report submitted in April 2024, and other relevant factors, including global economic conditions, the level of spare capacity, and the availability of strategic reserves, I determine, pursuant to section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, Public Law 112-81, and consistent with prior determinations, that there is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum products from countries other than Iran to permit a significant reduction in the volume of petroleum and petroleum products purchased from Iran by or through foreign financial institutions.
I will continue to monitor this situation closely.
The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, May 8, 2024.
Memorandum of May 10, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $400 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, May 10, 2024.
Order of May 13, 2024

# Regarding the Acquisition of Certain Real Property of Cheyenne Leads by MineOne Cloud Computing Investment I L.P.
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (section 721), 50 U.S.C. 4565, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Findings.
I hereby make the following findings:
(a) There is credible evidence that leads me to believe that (1) MineOne Partners Limited, a British Virgin Islands company ultimately majority owned by Chinese nationals (“MineOne Partners”); (2) MineOne Cloud Computing Investment I L.P., a British Virgin Islands limited partnership (“MineOne Cloud”); (3) MineOne Data Center LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“MineOne Data”); and (4) MineOne Wyoming Data Center LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“MineOne Wyoming” and together with MineOne Partners, MineOne Cloud, MineOne Data, and MineOne Wyoming, the “Purchasers”), through the acquisition of certain real estate that is located within 1 mile of Francis E. Warren Air Force Base (“Warren AFB”) (specifically, the 12.06 acres described as Lot 1, Block 10 North Range Business Park 3rd Filing, located at 635 Logistics Drive, Cheyenne, Wyoming, 82009) (the “Real Estate” and such acquisition the “Transaction”), might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States;
(b) MineOne acquired the Real Estate in June 2022 and then made improvements to allow for use of the Real Estate for specialized cryptocurrency mining operations in close proximity to Warren AFB, a strategic missile base and home to Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missiles;
(c) The Transaction was not filed with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) until after CFIUS's non-notified transaction team investigated the Transaction as a result of a public tip;
(d) CFIUS identified national security risks arising from the Transaction relating to the proximity of the Real Estate to Warren AFB, as well as related risk associated with the presence of specialized equipment on the Real Estate used to conduct cryptocurrency mining operations, some of which is foreign-sourced and presents national security concerns;
(e) The proximity of the foreign-owned Real Estate to a strategic missile base and key element of America's nuclear triad, and the presence of specialized and foreign-sourced equipment potentially capable of facilitating surveillance and espionage activities, presents a national security risk to the United States;
(f) Section 721 authorizes CFIUS to negotiate and enter into an agreement or take certain other actions to mitigate the national security risk arising from a covered transaction. Section 721 also requires that such an agreement be effective and verifiable and enable effective monitoring and
enforcement to resolve the national security concerns posed by a transaction. After consideration, CFIUS determined it would not be possible to enter into a negotiated agreement that would satisfy those requirements; and
(g) Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), do not, in my judgment, provide adequate and appropriate authority for me to protect the national security in this matter.
Sec. 2
.
Actions Ordered and Authorized.
On the basis of the findings set forth in section 1 of this order, considering the factors described in subsection (f) of section 721, as appropriate, and pursuant to my authority under applicable law, including section 721, I hereby order that:
(a) The Transaction is hereby prohibited, and ownership by the Purchasers of any interest in or part of the Real Estate, or maintenance of any property rights in the Real Estate (including but not limited to the rights referred to in 31 CFR 802.233), whether effected directly or indirectly through the Purchasers, through the Purchasers' foreign person shareholders, partners, or beneficial owners, or through the Purchasers' subsidiaries or affiliates, including but not limited to Terra Crypto, Inc., a Wyoming corporation; Terra Global Asset Management Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation; Terra Global Capital, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; Global Network of Business Consultants, Inc., a New York corporation; and International Intellectual Capital, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (such subsidiaries and affiliates collectively “Affiliates”), are also prohibited.
(b) To effectuate this order, not later than 120 calendar days after the date of this order, unless such date is extended by CFIUS, subject to such conditions on an extension as CFIUS determines are necessary and appropriate to protect the national security of the United States, the Purchasers and their Affiliates shall sell or transfer all direct and indirect legal and beneficial ownership interests or other rights in the Real Estate, and certify in writing that such Divestment has been completed (the “Divestment”).
(c) Not later than 90 calendar days after the date of this order, unless such date is extended by CFIUS, subject to such conditions on an extension as CFIUS determines are necessary and appropriate to protect the national security of the United States, the Purchasers, whether directly or indirectly, shall:
(i) remove from the Real Estate all items, structures, or other physical objects or installations of any kind (the “Equipment”) that the Purchasers, their Affiliates, or persons acting on their behalf, have stockpiled, stored, deposited, installed, or affixed (the “Equipment Removal”), and certify in writing that such Equipment Removal has been completed; and
(ii) remove from the Real Estate all (A) utility and other improvements on or adjacent and connected to the Real Estate; (B) excavation, repair, or new construction on the Real Estate underground; and (C) repair, improvement, or new construction on the Real Estate above ground (collectively, (A) through (C), the “Improvements”) commenced, continued, or completed by the Purchasers or their Affiliates after the closing of the Transaction (the “Improvements Removal”), and certify in writing that such Improvements Removal has been completed.
CFIUS is authorized to require inspection of the Real Estate, at no expense to CFIUS, on terms it deems appropriate to ensure that each of the Equipment Removal and Improvements Removal is complete and verified.
(d) Immediately from the date of this order until such time as the Divestment, Equipment Removal, and Improvements Removal have been completed and verified to the satisfaction of CFIUS, the Purchasers shall, and shall ensure that all of their Affiliates, refrain from physical or logical access to the Real Estate, Equipment, or Improvements, unless such access is necessary to effectuate the requirements of subsections (a) through (c) of this section as determined by CFIUS. Not later than 7 calendar days after the date of this order and until such time as the Divestment, Equipment Removal, and Improvements Removal have been completed and verified to the satisfaction of CFIUS, the Purchasers shall, and shall ensure that their Affiliates, put in place and maintain any measures or controls necessary to ensure that the access prohibited under this subsection does not occur.
(e) Until the Divestment, Equipment Removal, and Improvements Removal have been completed and verified to the satisfaction of CFIUS, the Purchasers shall not, and shall ensure that their Affiliates do not, dissolve, reorganize, or transfer their ownership of or any other property rights in the Real Estate, or otherwise change their legal structure or relocate or sell any physical, intangible, or financial assets in a manner that would materially impede or prevent the Purchasers or their Affiliates from complying with this order. The Purchasers shall, and shall ensure that their Affiliates, notify CFIUS in writing within 24 hours of becoming aware of any actual or potential event of default or other similar occurrence affecting any party's rights or obligations under outstanding loans related to the Real Estate, Equipment, or Improvements that could materially impede or prevent the Purchasers or their Affiliates from complying with this order.
(f) Immediately upon completion of the Divestment, Equipment Removal, and Improvements Removal, the Purchasers shall certify in writing to CFIUS that all steps necessary to fully and permanently effectuate the requirements of subsections (a) through (d) of this section, including any related conditions CFIUS imposes pursuant to this order, have been completed in accordance with this order.
(g) The Purchasers shall not, and shall ensure that their Affiliates do not, complete a sale or transfer of the Real Estate to any third party:
(i) until the Purchasers notify CFIUS in writing of the intended buyer or transferee; and
(ii) unless 10 business days have passed from the notification in subsection (g)(i) of this section and CFIUS has not issued to the Purchasers an objection to the intended buyer or transferee. Among the factors CFIUS may consider in reviewing the proposed sale or transfer are whether the buyer or transferee is a United States citizen or is owned by United States citizens and has or has had a direct or indirect contractual, financial, familial, employment, or other close and continuous relationship with the Purchasers or their Affiliates, or officers or employees of the Purchasers or their Affiliates. In addition, CFIUS may consider whether the proposed sale or transfer would threaten to impair the national security of the United States or undermine the purpose of this order, and whether the sale effectuates, to CFIUS's satisfaction and in its discretion, a Divestment consistent with subsection (b) of this section.
(h) From the date of this order until the Purchasers provide a certification of the Divestment to CFIUS pursuant to subsection (f) of this section, each Purchaser shall certify to CFIUS on a weekly basis that it is in compliance with this order and shall include a description of efforts to effectuate the Divestment, Equipment Removal, and Improvements Removal along with a timeline for projected completion of remaining actions.
(i) Any transaction or other instrument entered into or method employed for the purpose of, or with the effect of, evading or circumventing this order is prohibited.
(j) Without limitation on the exercise of authority by any agency under other provisions of law, and until such time each of the Divestment, Equipment Removal, and Improvements Removal are completed and verified to the satisfaction of CFIUS, CFIUS is authorized to implement measures it deems necessary and appropriate to verify and enforce compliance with this order. For purposes of verifying and enforcing compliance with this order, employees of the United States Government as designated by CFIUS shall be permitted access, on reasonable notice to the Purchasers or their Affiliates, as applicable, to all premises and facilities of the Purchasers or their Affiliates, including the Real Estate, located in the United States:
(i) to inspect and copy any books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda, and other records and documents in the possession or under the control of the Purchasers that concern any matter relating to this order;
(ii) to inspect or audit any information systems, networks, hardware, software, data, communications, or property in the possession or under the control of the Purchasers;
(iii) to interview officers, employees, or agents of the Purchasers, or any of their respective Affiliates, concerning any matter relating to this order; and
(iv) to inspect and verify progress or completion of the requirements of subsection (c)(i) and subsection (c)(ii) of this section regarding the Equipment Removal and Improvements Removal.
CFIUS shall conclude its verification procedures within 90 calendar days after the certification of the Divestment is provided to CFIUS pursuant to subsection (e) of this section.
(k) Without limitation on the exercise of authority by any agency under other provisions of law, and until such time as the Divestment, Equipment Removal, and Improvements Removal are completed and verified to the satisfaction of CFIUS, CFIUS is further authorized to implement measures it deems necessary and appropriate to mitigate risk to the national security of the United States arising from the Transaction, including measures available to it under section 721 and its implementing regulations, which include the remedies available for violations of any agreement or condition entered into or imposed under subsection (l) of section 721.
(l) If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstances, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby. If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstances, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid because of the lack of certain procedural requirements, the
relevant executive branch officials shall implement those procedural requirements.
(m) The Attorney General is authorized to take any steps necessary to enforce this order.
Sec. 3
.
Reservation.
I hereby reserve my authority to issue further orders with respect to the Transaction or Purchasers as shall in my judgment be necessary to protect the national security of the United States.
Sec. 4
.
Publication and Transmittal.
(a) This order shall be published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) I hereby direct the Secretary of the Treasury to transmit a copy of this order to the appropriate parties named in section 1 of this order.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 13, 2024.
Notice of May 14, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Yemen
On May 16, 2012, by Executive Order 13611, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the actions and policies of certain members of the Government of Yemen and others that threatened Yemen's peace, security, and stability. These actions include obstructing the political process in Yemen and blocking the implementation of the agreement of November 23, 2011, between the Government of Yemen and those in opposition to it, which provides for a peaceful transition of power that meets the legitimate demands and aspirations of the Yemeni people.
The actions and policies of certain former members of the Government of Yemen and others in threatening Yemen's peace, security, and stability continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13611 on May 16, 2012, to deal with that threat must continue in effect beyond May 16, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13611 with respect to Yemen.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 14, 2024.
Memorandum of May 14, 2024

# Actions by the United States Related to the Statutory 4-Year Review of the Section 301 Investigation of China's Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation

# Memorandum for the United States Trade Representative
On May 5, 2022, the United States Trade Representative (Trade Representative) initiated the statutory 4-year review of the July 6, 2018, and the August 23, 2018, actions, as modified (two actions), taken under section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2411) (Trade Act), in the investigation of China's Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation (section 301 investigation). The July 6, 2018, and the August 23, 2018, actions were subsequently modified by imposing additional duties on supplemental lists of products, as well as by the temporary removal of duties on certain products through product exclusions. The Trade Representative initiated the May 5, 2022, review of the two actions under section 307(c)(3) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2417(c)(3)).
During its review, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) sought and received approximately 1,500 written submissions. Pursuant to section 307(c)(3) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2417(c)(3)), and based on information obtained during the review, including the written submissions, USTR and the section 301 Committee prepared a comprehensive report on the effectiveness of the two actions in achieving the objectives of the investigation, other actions that could be taken, and the effects of such actions on the United States economy, including consumers.
The Trade Representative has advised me on the findings in the review, and taking into consideration these findings, I find as follows:
First, while imposition of tariffs under section 301 of the Trade Act (section 301 tariffs) has been effective in encouraging China to take positive steps in addressing the issues identified in the section 301 investigation, such as certain revisions in its foreign investment and administrative licensing laws, China's actions do not represent a systematic and sustained response to the issues raised in the section 301 investigation.
Second, China has not eliminated many of the technology transfer-related acts, policies, and practices at issue, nor removed their burden or restriction on United States commerce.
Third, although China has taken limited measures to address negative perceptions of its technology transfer-related acts, policies, and practices, it continues to aggressively attempt to acquire and absorb foreign technology and intellectual property, particularly through cyber intrusions and cybertheft, adding to the burden or restriction on United States commerce.
Fourth, the section 301 tariffs have been effective to an extent in reducing the exposure of United States persons and commerce to China's acts, policies, and practices at issue.
Fifth, additional section 301 tariffs would provide incentives for China to eliminate the acts, policies, and practices at issue.
It is hereby directed as follows:
Section 1
.
Tariffs.
(a) The Trade Representative shall maintain, as appropriate and consistent with this memorandum, the ad valorem rates of duty and lists of products subject to the two actions, taken under the section 301 investigation. To further encourage China to eliminate the acts, policies, and practices at issue, and to counteract the burden or restriction of these acts, policies, and practices, the Trade Representative shall modify the two actions to increase section 301 ad valorem rates of duty for the following products from China:
• Battery parts (non-lithium-ion batteries): Increase rate to 25 percent in 2024;
• Electric vehicles: Increase rate to 100 percent in 2024;
• Lithium-ion electrical vehicle batteries: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2024;
• Lithium-ion non-electrical vehicle batteries: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2026;
• Natural graphite: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2026;
• Other critical minerals: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2024;
• Permanent magnets: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2026;
• Semiconductors: Increase rate to 50 percent in 2025;
• Ship to shore cranes: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2024;
• Solar cells (whether or not assembled into modules): Increase rate to 50 percent in 2024; and
• Steel and aluminum products: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2024.
For personal protective equipment (facemasks, medical gloves, and syringes and needles), the Trade Representative is directed to increase rates of duty to no less than the rates indicated:
• Facemasks: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2024;
• Medical gloves: Increase rate to 25 percent in 2026; and
• Syringes and needles: Increase rate to 50 percent in 2024.
(b) To advance the purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the Trade Representative shall publish a proposed list of products and corresponding tariff increases. After a period of notice and comment in accordance with section 307(a) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2417(a)), and after consultation with appropriate agencies and committees, the Trade Representative shall, as appropriate and consistent with law, publish a final list of products and tariff increases, if any, and implement any such tariffs.
(c) The Trade Representative shall also establish a process by which interested persons may request that particular machinery used in domestic manufacturing classified within a subheading under chapters 84 and 85 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States be temporarily excluded from section 301 tariffs, and shall prioritize, in particular, exclusions for certain solar manufacturing equipment. USTR shall publish a separate notice describing the machinery exclusion process, including the procedures for submitting exclusion requests and for interested persons to oppose any such requests.
Sec. 2
.
Publication.
The Trade Representative is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, May 14, 2024.
Notice of May 20, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Stabilization of Iraq
On May 22, 2003, by Executive Order 13303, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States posed by obstacles to the orderly reconstruction of Iraq, the restoration and maintenance of peace and security in the country, and the development of political, administrative, and economic institutions in Iraq.
The obstacles to the orderly reconstruction of Iraq, the restoration and maintenance of peace and security in the country, and the development of political, administrative, and economic institutions in Iraq continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13303, as modified in scope and relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order 13290 of March 20, 2003, Executive Order 13315 of August 28, 2003, Executive Order 13350 of July 29, 2004, Executive Order 13364 of November 29, 2004, Executive Order 13438 of July 17, 2007, and Executive Order 13668 of May 27, 2014, must continue in effect beyond May 22, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to the stabilization of Iraq declared in Executive Order 13303.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 20, 2024.
Memorandum of May 24, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State:
(1) the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $275 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown; and
(2) the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $24 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, May 24, 2024.
Presidential Permit of May 31, 2024

# Authorizing Cameron County, Texas, To Construct, Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing Near Brownsville, Texas, at the International Boundary Between the United States and Mexico
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant permission, subject to the conditions set forth herein, to Cameron County, Texas (the “Permittee”), to construct, maintain, and operate a vehicular and pedestrian crossing located on the United States border with Mexico in Brownsville, Texas, as described in the “Cameron County Flor de Mayo International Bridge Presidential Permit Application” dated September 14, 2021 (“September 14, 2021, Application”), by the permittee to the Secretary of State and determined to be complete on February 13, 2024, in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 535d and associated procedures.
The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit consists of the bridge over the Rio Grande, its approaches, and any land, structures, installations, or equipment appurtenant thereto located on the United States side of the
international boundary between the United States and Mexico, approximately 8 river miles from the Brownville and Matamoros International Bridge and 35.6 river miles from the existing Free Trade Bridge at Los Indios.
This permit is subject to the following conditions:
Article 1.
The Border facilities herein described and all aspects of their operation are subject to all the conditions, provisions, and requirements of this permit and any subsequent Presidential amendment to it. The construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities shall be in all material respects as described in the September 14, 2021, Application.
Article 2.
The standards for and the manner of construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities are subject to inspection by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies. The permittee shall grant officers and employees of such agencies that are duly authorized and performing their official duties free and unrestricted access to said Border facilities.
Article 3.
The permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations regarding the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities.
Article 4.
(1) The permittee shall take or cause to be taken all appropriate measures to mitigate adverse impacts on or disruption of the human environment in connection with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities. Mitigation measures are those that avoid, minimize, or compensate for adverse impacts.
(2) The permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United States for any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities, including environmental contamination from the release, threatened release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.
(3) The permittee is responsible for obtaining any required Federal, State, and local permits, approvals, and authorizations prior to commencing construction activities. The permittee shall implement the mitigation identified in any environmental decision documents prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and Federal permits, including stormwater permits and permits issued in accordance with section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1342). The permittee shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local environmental laws.
Article 5.
The permittee shall immediately notify the President or his designee of any decision to transfer custody and control of the Border facilities or any part thereof to any executive department or agency (agency) of the United States Government. Said notice shall identify the transferee agency and seek the approval of the President for the transfer of the permit. In the event of approval by the President of such transfer, this permit shall remain in force and effect, and the Border facilities shall be subject to all the conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any amendments thereof. The permittee may transfer ownership or control of the Border facilities to a non-Federal entity or individual only upon the prior express approval of such transfer by the President, which approval may include such conditions, permissions, and requirements that the President, in the
President's discretion, determines are appropriate and necessary for inclusion in the permit, to be effective on the date of transfer.
Article 6.
The permittee is responsible for acquiring and maintaining any right-of-way grants or easements, permits, and other authorizations as may become necessary or appropriate. To ensure the safe operation of the Border facilities, the permittee shall maintain them and every part of them in a condition of good repair and in compliance with applicable law and use of best management practices.
Article 7
. To the extent authorized by law, and consistent with any Donation Acceptance Agreements (DAAs) already executed with the permittee under the Donation Acceptance Authority found in 6 U.S.C. 301a and section 559 of title V of division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), as amended, as continued by 6 U.S.C. 301b, the permittee shall provide to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (Commissioner) of the Department of Homeland Security and the heads of any other relevant agencies, at no cost to the United States, suitable inspection facilities, infrastructure improvements, equipment, and maintenance, as set forth in the DAAs. Nothing in this permit obligates such agencies to provide a particular level of services or staffing for such inspection facilities or for any other aspect of the port of entry associated with the Border facilities.
Article 8.
Before beginning design activities, the permittee shall fulfill requirements associated with the following conditions, as refined by the relevant agencies below and as consistent with applicable law:
(1) Obtain the concurrence of the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico;
(2) Provide a plan for the approval of the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund the necessary staffing by U.S. Customs and Border Protection for the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter;
(3) Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator of General Services (Administrator) and the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund the necessary operations and maintenance costs for the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter; and
(4) Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator and the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund construction, outfitting (furniture, fixtures, and equipment to include information technology and necessary inspection technologies), technology integration, and outyear refresh of said program elements for the Border facilities detailed in their September 14, 2021, Application.
Relevant agencies will coordinate with the permittee to further refine the above conditions, as necessary, within 1 year of permit issuance.
Article 9.
The permittee shall not initiate construction until the Department of State has provided notification to the permittee that the Department of State has completed its exchange of diplomatic notes with the Government of Mexico regarding authorization. The permittee shall provide written notification to the President or his designee at the time that the construction authorized by this permit begins, at the time as such construction is completed, interrupted, or discontinued, and at other times as may be requested by the President.
Article 10.
Upon request, the permittee shall provide appropriate information to the President or his designee with regard to the Border facilities. Such requests could include requests for information concerning current conditions, environmental compliance, mitigation, or anticipated changes in ownership or control, construction, connection, operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities.
Article 11.
The permittee shall file any applicable statements and reports required by applicable Federal law in connection with the Border facilities.
Article 12.
The permittee shall make no substantial change to the Border facilities, in the location of the Border facilities, or in the operation authorized by this permit, unless such changes have been approved by the President. The President may terminate, revoke, or amend this permit at any time at his sole discretion. The permittee's obligation to implement any amendment to this permit is subject to the availability of funds. If the permittee permanently closes the Flor de Mayo International Bridge and it is no longer used as an international crossing, then this permit shall terminate, and the permittee may manage, utilize, or dispose of the Border facilities in accordance with applicable authorities. This permit shall continue in full force and effect for only so long as the permittee continues the operations hereby authorized.
Article 13.
This permit shall expire 5 years from the date of its issuance if the permittee has not commenced construction of the Border facilities by that date.
Article 14.
This permit is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 31, 2024.
Presidential Permit of May 31, 2024

# Authorizing Maverick County, Texas, To Construct, Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular, Pedestrian, and Rail Border Crossing Near Eagle Pass, Texas, at the International Boundary Between the United States and Mexico
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant permission, subject to the conditions set forth herein, to Maverick County, Texas (the “permittee”), to construct, maintain, and operate a vehicular, pedestrian, and rail crossing located on the United States border with Mexico in Eagle Pass, Texas, as
described in the “Puerto Verde Global Trade Bridge Presidential Permit Application” dated October 17, 2023 (“October 17, 2023, Application”), by the permittee to the Secretary of State and determined to be complete on February 5, 2024, in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 535d and associated procedures.
The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit consists of the bridge, its approaches, and any land, structures, installations, or equipment appurtenant thereto located between the United States side of the international boundary between the United States and Mexico and approximately two miles north of Eagle Pass Bridge I, at the northwest edge of the City of Eagle Pass.
This permit is subject to the following conditions:
Article 1.
The Border facilities herein described and all aspects of their operation are subject to all the conditions, provisions, and requirements of this permit and any subsequent Presidential amendment to it. The construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities shall be in all material respects as described in the October 17, 2023, Application.
Article 2.
The standards for and the manner of construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities are subject to inspection by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies. The permittee shall grant officers and employees of such agencies that are duly authorized and performing their official duties free and unrestricted access to said Border facilities.
Article 3.
The permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations regarding the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities.
Article 4.
(1) The permittee shall take or cause to be taken all appropriate measures to mitigate adverse impacts on or disruption of the human environment in connection with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities. Mitigation measures are those that avoid, minimize, or compensate for adverse impacts.
(2) The permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United States for any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities, including environmental contamination from the release, threatened release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.
(3) The permittee is responsible for obtaining any required Federal, State, and local permits, approvals, and authorizations prior to commencing construction activities. The permittee shall implement the mitigation identified in any environmental decision documents prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and Federal permits, including stormwater permits and permits issued in accordance with section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1342). The permittee shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local environmental laws.
Article 5.
The permittee shall immediately notify the President or his designee of any decision to transfer custody and control of the Border facilities or any part thereof to any executive department or agency (agency) of the United States Government. Said notice shall identify the transferee agency and seek the approval of the President for the transfer of the permit. In the
event of approval by the President of such transfer, this permit shall remain in force and effect, and the Border facilities shall be subject to all the conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any amendments thereof. The permittee may transfer ownership or control of the Border facilities to a non-Federal entity or individual only upon the prior express approval of such transfer by the President, which approval may include such conditions, permissions, and requirements that the President, in the President's discretion, determines are appropriate and necessary for inclusion in the permit, to be effective on the date of transfer.
Article 6.
The permittee is responsible for acquiring and maintaining any right-of-way grants or easements, permits, and other authorizations as may become necessary or appropriate. To ensure the safe operation of the Border facilities, the permittee shall maintain them and every part of them in a condition of good repair and in compliance with applicable law and use of best management practices.
Article 7.
To the extent authorized by law, and consistent with any Donation Acceptance Agreements (DAAs) already executed with the permittee under the Donation Acceptance Authority found in 6 U.S.C. 301a and section 559 of title V of division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), as amended, as continued by 6 U.S.C. 301b, the permittee shall provide to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (Commissioner) of the Department of Homeland Security and the heads of any other relevant agencies, at no cost to the United States, suitable inspection facilities, infrastructure improvements, equipment, and maintenance, as set forth in the DAAs. Nothing in this permit obligates such agencies to provide a particular level of services or staffing for such inspection facilities or for any other aspect of the port of entry associated with the Border facilities.
Article 8.
Before beginning design activities, the permittee shall fulfill requirements associated with the following conditions, as refined by the relevant agencies below and as consistent with applicable law:
(1) Obtain the concurrence of the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico;
(2) Provide a plan for the approval of the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund the necessary staffing by U.S. Customs and Border Protection for the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter;
(3) Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator of General Services (Administrator) and the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund the necessary operations and maintenance costs for the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter;
(4) Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator and the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund construction, outfitting (furniture, fixtures, and equipment to include information technology and necessary inspection technologies), technology integration, and outyear refresh of said program elements for the Border facilities detailed in their October 17, 2023, Application; and
(5) Provide a plan for the approval of the Secretary of Transportation detailing the commercial motor vehicle safety measures that will be implemented, as well as how the permittee will ensure the necessary funding for appropriate Department of Transportation staffing.
Relevant agencies will coordinate with the permittee to further refine the above conditions, as necessary, within 1 year of permit issuance.
Article 9.
The permittee shall not initiate construction until the Department of State has provided notification to the permittee that the Department of State has completed its exchange of diplomatic notes with the Government of Mexico regarding authorization. The permittee shall provide written notification to the President or his designee at the time that the construction authorized by this permit begins, at the time as such construction is completed, interrupted, or discontinued, and at other times as may be requested by the President.
Article 10.
Upon request, the permittee shall provide appropriate information to the President or his designee with regard to the Border facilities. Such requests could include requests for information concerning current conditions, environmental compliance, mitigation, or anticipated changes in ownership or control, construction, connection, operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities.
Article 11.
The permittee shall file any applicable statements and reports required by applicable Federal law in connection with the Border facilities.
Article 12.
The permittee shall make no substantial change to the Border facilities, in the location of the Border facilities, or in the operation authorized by this permit, unless such changes have been approved by the President. The President may terminate, revoke, or amend this permit at any time at his sole discretion. The permittee's obligation to implement any amendment to this permit is subject to the availability of funds. If the permittee permanently closes the Puerto Verde Global Trade Bridge and it is no longer used as an international crossing, then this permit shall terminate, and the permittee may manage, utilize, or dispose of the Border facilities in accordance with applicable authorities. This permit shall continue in full force and effect for only so long as the permittee continues the operations hereby authorized.
Article 13.
This permit shall expire 5 years from the date of its issuance if the permittee has not commenced construction of the Border facilities by that date.
Article 14.
This permit is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 31, 2024.
Presidential Permit of May 31, 2024

# Authorizing the City of Laredo, Texas, To Expand and Continue To Maintain and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing at the World Trade Bridge Land Port of Entry
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant permission, subject to the conditions set forth herein, to the City of Laredo in Webb County, Texas (the “permittee”), to expand and continue to maintain and operate a vehicular and pedestrian crossing at the World Trade Bridge Land Port of Entry located on the United States border with Mexico in Laredo, Texas, as described in the “Laredo World Trade Bridge Expansion Project Presidential Permit Application” dated April 29, 2022 (“April 29, 2022, Application”), by the permittee to the Secretary of State and determined to be complete on February 9, 2024, in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 535d and associated procedures.
The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit consists of the bridge over the Rio Grande, including two additional commercial lanes on the existing World Trade Bridge land port of entry and the addition of a second span adjacent to the existing World Trade Bridge land port of entry, its approaches, and any land, structures, installations, or equipment appurtenant thereto located approximately 9.35 river miles north of Laredo International Bridge I on the United States side of the international boundary between the United States and Mexico.
This permit is subject to the following conditions:
Article 1.
The Border facilities herein described and all aspects of their operation are subject to all the conditions, provisions, and requirements of this permit and any subsequent Presidential amendment to it. The construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities shall be in all material respects as described in the April 29, 2022, Application.
Article 2.
The standards for and the manner of construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities are subject to inspection by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies. The permittee shall grant officers and employees of such agencies that are duly authorized and performing their official duties free and unrestricted access to said Border facilities.
Article 3.
The permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations regarding the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities.
Article 4.
(1) The permittee shall take or cause to be taken all appropriate measures to mitigate adverse impacts on or disruption of the human environment in connection with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities. Mitigation measures are those that avoid, minimize, or compensate for adverse impacts.
(2) The permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United States for any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities, including environmental contamination from the release, threatened release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.
(3) The permittee is responsible for obtaining any required Federal, State, and local permits, approvals, and authorizations prior to commencing construction activities. The permittee shall implement the mitigation identified in any environmental decision documents prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and Federal permits, including stormwater permits and permits issued in accordance with section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1342). The permittee shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local environmental laws.
Article 5.
The permittee shall immediately notify the President or his designee of any decision to transfer custody and control of the Border facilities or any part thereof to any executive department or agency (agency) of the United States Government. Said notice shall identify the transferee agency and seek the approval of the President for the transfer of the permit. In the event of approval by the President of such transfer, this permit shall remain in force and effect, and the Border facilities shall be subject to all the conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any amendments thereof. The permittee may transfer ownership or control of the Border facilities to a non-Federal entity or individual only upon the prior express approval of such transfer by the President, which approval may include such conditions, permissions, and requirements that the President, in the President's discretion, determines are appropriate and necessary for inclusion in the permit, to be effective on the date of transfer.
Article 6.
The permittee is responsible for acquiring and maintaining any right-of-way grants or easements, permits, and other authorizations as may become necessary or appropriate. To ensure the safe operation of the Border facilities, the permittee shall maintain them and every part of them in a condition of good repair and in compliance with applicable law and use of best management practices.
Article 7.
To the extent authorized by law, and consistent with Donation Acceptance Agreements (DAAs) already executed with the permittee under the Donation Acceptance Authority found in 6 U.S.C. 301a and section 559 of title V of division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), as amended, as continued by 6 U.S.C. 301b, the permittee shall provide to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection of the Department of Homeland Security and the heads of any other relevant agencies, at no cost to the United States, suitable inspection facilities, infrastructure improvements, equipment, and maintenance, as set forth in the DAAs. Nothing in this permit obligates such agencies to provide a particular level of services or staffing for such inspection facilities or for any other aspect of the port of entry associated with the Border facilities.
Article 8.
Upon request, the permittee shall provide appropriate information to the President or his designee with regard to the Border facilities. Such requests could include requests for information concerning current conditions, environmental compliance, mitigation, or anticipated changes in ownership or control, construction, connection, operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities.
Article 9.
Before initiating construction, the permittee shall obtain the concurrence of the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico.
Article 10.
The permittee shall not initiate construction until the Department of State has provided notification to the permittee that the Department of State has completed its exchange of diplomatic notes with the Government of Mexico regarding authorization. The permittee shall provide written notification to the President or his designee at the time that the construction authorized by this permit begins, at the time as such construction is completed, interrupted, or discontinued, and at other times as may be requested by the President.
Article 11.
The permittee shall file any applicable statements and reports required by applicable Federal law in connection with the Border facilities.
Article 12.
The permittee shall make no substantial change to the Border facilities, in the location of the Border facilities, or in the operation authorized by this permit, unless such changes have been approved by the President. The President may terminate, revoke, or amend this permit at any time at his sole discretion. The permittee's obligation to implement any amendment to this permit is subject to the availability of funds. If the permittee permanently closes the World Trade Bridge and it is no longer used as an international crossing, then this permit shall terminate, and the permittee may manage, utilize, or dispose of the Border facilities in accordance with applicable authorities. This permit shall continue in full force and effect for only so long as the permittee continues the operations hereby authorized.
Article 13.
This permit shall expire 5 years from the date of its issuance if the permittee has not commenced construction of the Border facilities by that date.
Article 14.
This permit is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
May 31, 2024.
Memorandum of June 7, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $225 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, June 7, 2024.
Notice of June 13, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Belarus
On June 16, 2006, by Executive Order 13405, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the actions and policies of certain members of the Government of Belarus and other persons to undermine Belarus's democratic processes or institutions, manifested in the fundamentally undemocratic March 2006 elections; to commit human rights abuses related to political repression, including detentions and disappearances; and to engage in public corruption, including by diverting or misusing Belarusian public assets or by misusing public authority.
On August 9, 2021, by Executive Order 14038, I expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13405, finding that the Belarusian regime's harmful activities and long-standing abuses aimed at suppressing democracy and the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Belarus—including illicit and oppressive activities stemming from the August 9, 2020, fraudulent Belarusian presidential election and its aftermath, such as the elimination of political opposition and civil society organizations and the regime's disruption and endangering of international civil air travel—constituted an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.
The actions and policies of certain members of the Government of Belarus and other persons, and the Belarusian regime's harmful activities and long-standing abuses, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13405, which was expanded in scope in Executive Order 14038, must continue in effect beyond June 16, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13405.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 13, 2024.
Notice of June 13, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to North Korea
On June 26, 2008, by Executive Order 13466, the President declared a national emergency with respect to North Korea pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the existence and risk of the proliferation of weapons-usable fissile material on the Korean Peninsula. The President also found that it was necessary to maintain certain restrictions with respect to North Korea that would otherwise have been lifted pursuant to Proclamation 8271 of June 26, 2008, which terminated the exercise of authorities under the Trading With the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. App. 1
et seq.
) with respect to North Korea.
On August 30, 2010, the President signed Executive Order 13551, which expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States posed by the continued actions and policies of the Government of North Korea, manifested by its unprovoked attack that resulted in the sinking of the Republic of Korea Navy ship
Cheonan
and the deaths of 46 sailors in March 2010; its announced test of a nuclear device and its missile launches in 2009; its actions in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1718 and 1874, including the procurement of luxury goods; and its illicit and deceptive activities in international markets through which it obtains financial and other support, including money laundering, the counterfeiting of goods and currency, bulk cash smuggling, and narcotics trafficking, which destabilize the Korean Peninsula and imperil United States Armed Forces, allies, and trading partners in the region.
On April 18, 2011, the President signed Executive Order 13570 to take additional steps to address the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 and expanded in Executive Order 13551 that would ensure
implementation of the import restrictions contained in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1718 and 1874 and complement the import restrictions provided for in the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
).
On January 2, 2015, the President signed Executive Order 13687 to expand the scope of, and to take further steps with respect to, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466, as expanded in Executive Order 13551, and addressed further in Executive Order 13570, to address the threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the provocative, destabilizing, and repressive actions and policies of the Government of North Korea, including its destructive, coercive cyber-related actions during November and December 2014, actions in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1718, 1874, 2087, and 2094, and commission of serious human rights abuses.
On March 15, 2016, the President signed Executive Order 13722 to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466, as modified in scope and relied upon for additional steps in subsequent Executive Orders, to address the Government of North Korea's continuing pursuit of its nuclear and missile programs, as evidenced by its February 7, 2016, launch using ballistic missile technology and its January 6, 2016, nuclear test in violation of its obligations pursuant to numerous United Nations Security Council resolutions and in contravention of its commitments under the September 19, 2005, Joint Statement of the Six-Party Talks, that increasingly imperils the United States and its allies.
On September 20, 2017, the President signed Executive Order 13810 to take further steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466, as modified in scope and relied upon for additional steps in subsequent Executive Orders, to address the provocative, destabilizing, and repressive actions and policies of the Government of North Korea, including its intercontinental ballistic missile launches of July 3 and July 28, 2017, and its nuclear test of September 2, 2017; its commission of serious human rights abuses; and its use of funds generated through international trade to support its nuclear and missile programs and weapons proliferation.
The existence and risk of the proliferation of weapons-usable fissile material on the Korean Peninsula and the actions and policies of the Government of North Korea continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466, expanded in scope in Executive Order 13551, addressed further in Executive Order 13570, further expanded in scope in Executive Order 13687, and under which additional steps were taken in Executive Order 13722 and Executive Order 13810, must continue in effect beyond June 26, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13466 with respect to North Korea.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 13, 2024.
Notice of June 13, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Western Balkans
On June 26, 2001, by Executive Order 13219, the President declared a national emergency with respect to the Western Balkans pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the actions of persons engaged in, or assisting, sponsoring, or supporting, (i) extremist violence in the former Republic of Macedonia (what is now the Republic of North Macedonia) and elsewhere in the Western Balkans region, or (ii) acts obstructing implementation of the Dayton Accords in Bosnia or United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of June 10, 1999, in Kosovo. The President subsequently amended that order in Executive Order 13304 of May 28, 2003, to take additional steps with respect to certain actions that obstruct implementation of, among other things, the Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001 relating to Macedonia (what is now the Republic of North Macedonia).
On June 8, 2021, I signed Executive Order 14033, which expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13219, as amended, finding that the situation in the territory of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Albania (the Western Balkans), over the past two decades, including the undermining of post-war agreements and institutions following the breakup of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as well as widespread corruption within various governments and institutions in the Western Balkans, stymies progress toward effective and democratic governance and full integration into transatlantic institutions, and thereby constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.
The actions of persons threatening the peace and international stabilization efforts in the Western Balkans, including acts of extremist violence and obstructionist activity, and the situation in the Western Balkans, which stymies progress toward effective and democratic governance and full integration into transatlantic institutions, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13219, under which additional steps were taken in Executive Order 13304, and which was expanded in scope in Executive Order 14033, must continue in effect beyond June 26, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section
202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13219 with respect to the Western Balkans.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
June 13, 2024.
Memorandum of June 21, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 1247 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 1247(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31) (the “Act”) to submit to the appropriate committees of the Congress, as defined in section 1247(f) of the Act:
(a) the strategy authorized by section 1247(b) of the Act; and
(b) the authority and resourcing assessment required by section 1247(d) of the Act.
The delegation in this memorandum shall apply to any provision of any future public law that is the same or substantially the same as the provision referenced in this memorandum.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, June 21, 2024.
Memorandum of June 21, 2024

# Establishment of the Economic Diplomacy Action Group and Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities Under the Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act of 2019

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of the Treasury[,] the Secretary of Agriculture[,] the Secretary of Commerce[,] the United States Trade Representative[,] the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development[,] the President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States[, and] the Chief Executive Officer of the United States International Development Finance Corporation
Supporting United States economic and business interests abroad is a foreign policy priority. United States business has a critical role to play in advancing broader United States national security and foreign policy interests. Economic diplomacy can help to promote broad-based, inclusive, responsible, and sustainable economic growth, which enhances regional stability and creates new and growing markets for United States companies and opportunities for United States workers. By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and section 708 of the Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act of 2019 (Title VII of Division J of Public Law 116-94) (the “Act”), I hereby establish the Economic Diplomacy Action Group (EDAG) and delegate to you the functions and authorities vested in the President by subsection 708(c)(3) of the Act to appoint to the EDAG senior officials from your respective executive departments and agencies (agencies).
With respect to the performance of responsibilities under this memorandum, the Secretary of State, in coordination with the heads of relevant agencies, shall encourage and coordinate the appointment of members of the EDAG by the heads of their respective agencies. Consistent with the Act, such members, as well as any designated alternates, shall be senior officials who exercise significant decision-making authority within their respective agencies.
The delegation in this memorandum shall apply to any provisions of any future public laws that are the same or substantially the same as those provisions referenced in this memorandum.
The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, June 21, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-05 of June 24, 2024

# Designation of Kenya as a Major Non-NATO Ally

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 517 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2321k) (the “Act”), I hereby designate Kenya as a Major Non-NATO Ally of the United States for the purposes of the Act and the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751
et seq.
).
You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, June 24, 2024.
Memorandum of June 28, 2024

# Extending Eligibility for Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State [and] the Secretary of Homeland Security
Since 1991, the United States has provided safe haven for Liberians who were forced to flee their country as a result of armed conflict and widespread civil strife, in part through the grant of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred Enforced Departure (DED).
In December 2019, the Congress enacted the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) (NDAA), which included, as section 7611, the Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness (LRIF) provision. The LRIF provision, with limited exceptions, makes Liberians who have been continuously present in the United States since November 20, 2014, as well as their spouses and children, eligible for adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident (LPR). The NDAA gave eligible Liberian nationals until December 20, 2020, to apply for this adjustment of status. After the enactment of the LRIF provision, President Trump further extended the DED transition period through January 10, 2021, to ensure that DED beneficiaries would continue to be eligible for employment authorization during the LRIF application period.
The LRIF application process was new and complex, resulting in some procedural and administrative challenges. Recognizing these difficulties, the Congress enacted a 1-year extension to the application period in section 901 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260). That legislation, however, did not provide for continued employment authorization past January 10, 2021. Through my memorandum of January 20, 2021 (Reinstating Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians), DED was subsequently reinstated through June 30, 2022, in order to permit employment
authorization for eligible Liberians while they made their applications for adjustment of status under the LRIF provision. My memorandum of June 27, 2022 (Extending and Expanding Eligibility for Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians) (2022 Memorandum), further authorized an extension of DED for 24 months, ending June 30, 2024, and expanded eligibility to those Liberian nationals, or persons without nationality who last habitually resided in Liberia, who had been continuously physically present in the United States since May 20, 2017.
There are compelling foreign policy reasons to extend DED for those Liberians who have been continuously present in the United States since May 20, 2017, and were eligible for DED under the 2022 Memorandum. Providing protection from removal and work authorization to these Liberians, for whom we have long authorized TPS or DED in the United States, honors the historic close relationship between the United States and Liberia and is in the foreign policy interests of the United States.
Pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct the foreign relations of the United States, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy interests of the United States to extend through June 30, 2026, deferred removal for those Liberians already under a grant of DED under the 2022 Memorandum. I have also determined that these Liberian nationals should have continued employment authorization through June 30, 2026.
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly direct the appropriate officials to make provision, by means of a notice published in the
Federal Register
, for immediate allowance of employment authorization and prompt issuance of new or replacement employment authorization documents in appropriate cases for covered Liberians.
This grant of DED and continued employment authorization shall apply to any person who was eligible for a grant of DED under the 2022 Memorandum, to include any Liberian national, or person without nationality who last habitually resided in Liberia, who has been continuously physically present in the United States since May 20, 2017, but shall not apply to such persons in the following categories:
(1) individuals who would be ineligible for TPS for the reasons provided in section 244(c)(2)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1254a(c)(2)(B);
(2) individuals who sought or seek LPR status under the LRIF provision but whose applications have been or are denied by the Secretary of Homeland Security due to ineligibility for the LRIF provision under sections 7611(b)(1)(C) and (b)(3) of the NDAA;
(3) individuals whose removal the Secretary of Homeland Security determines is in the interest of the United States, subject to the LRIF provision;
(4) individuals whose presence or activities in the United States the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe would have potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United States;
(5) individuals who have voluntarily returned to Liberia or their country of last habitual residence outside the United States for an aggregate period of 180 days or more, as specified in subsection (c)(2) of the LRIF provision; or
(6) individuals who are subject to extradition.
Accordingly, I hereby direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take the necessary steps to implement for eligible Liberians:
(1) a deferral of enforced departure from the United States through June 30, 2026, effective immediately; and
(2) authorization for employment valid through June 30, 2026.
The Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, June 28, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-06 of June 28, 2024

# Presidential Determination and Certification With Respect to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Pursuant to section 404 of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2370c-1) (CSPA), I hereby:
Determine that it is in the national interest of the United States to waive the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with respect to Turkey; and
Certify that the Government of Turkey is taking effective and continuing steps to address the problem of child soldiers.
Accordingly, I hereby waive such application of section 404(a) of the CSPA.
You are authorized and directed to submit this determination and certification to the Congress, along with the Memorandum of Justification, and to publish this determination and certification in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, June 28, 2024.
Memorandum of July 3, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State:
(1) the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $150 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown; and
(2) the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $12 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 3, 2024.
Memorandum of July 9, 2024

# Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Sections 1333, 1342, 1352, and 1353 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of Defense[,] the Secretary of Energy[, and] the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code:
Section 1
. (a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 1352(g) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31) (the “Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of State and Energy, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 1352(h)(4), 1352(d)(1), and 1352(e)(2)(A) of the Act.
(c) I hereby delegate the functions and authorities vested in the President by the following provisions of the Act as follows:
(i) to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, as appropriate, section 1333 of the Act;
(ii) to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, section 1342 of the Act;
(iii) to the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, section 1352(e)(2)(B) of the Act;
(iv) to the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, section 1352(e)(2)(C) of the Act;
(v) to the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of State and Energy, section 1352(i) of the Act; and
(vi) to the Secretary of Defense for funds allocated to the Department of Defense account and to the Secretary of Energy for funds allocated to the Department of Energy account, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, section 1353(d), (h), and (i) of the Act.
Sec. 2
. The delegation in this memorandum shall apply to any provision of any future public law that is the same or substantially the same as the provision referenced in this memorandum.
Sec. 3
. The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 9, 2024.
Notice of July 10, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Hong Kong
On July 14, 2020, by Executive Order 13936, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq
.) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the situation with respect to Hong Kong.
The situation with respect to Hong Kong, including recent actions taken by the People's Republic of China to fundamentally undermine Hong Kong's autonomy, continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on July 14, 2020, must continue in effect beyond July 14, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for
1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13936 with respect to the situation in Hong Kong.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 10, 2024.
Memorandum of July 11, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $125 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 11, 2024.
Notice of July 16, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Hostage-Taking and the Wrongful Detention of United States Nationals Abroad
On July 19, 2022, by Executive Order 14078, I declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of United States nationals abroad.
Hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of United States nationals are heinous acts that undermine the rule of law. Terrorist organizations, criminal groups, and other malicious actors who take hostages for financial, political, or other gain—as well as foreign states that engage in the practice of wrongful detention, including for political leverage or to seek concessions from the United States—threaten the integrity of the international political system and the safety of United States nationals and other persons abroad. Hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of United States nationals abroad continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14078 of July 19, 2022, must continue in effect beyond July 19, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14078 with respect to hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of United States nationals abroad.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 16, 20024.
Notice of July 16, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Mali
On July 26, 2019, by Executive Order 13882, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the situation in Mali.
The situation in Mali, including repeated violations of ceasefire arrangements made pursuant to the 2015 Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation in Mali; a coup d'etat resulting in the termination of that agreement; the expansion of terrorist activities into southern and central Mali; the intensification of drug trafficking and trafficking in persons, human rights abuses, and hostage-taking; the presence of foreign mercenaries threatening peace, security, and stability; and the intensification of attacks against civilians, the Malian defense and security forces, the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA), and international security presences, continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13882 on July 26, 2019, must continue in effect beyond July 26, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13882 with respect to the situation in Mali.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 16, 2024.
Notice of July 16, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Transnational Criminal Organizations
On July 24, 2011, by Executive Order 13581, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the activities of significant transnational criminal organizations.
On March 15, 2019, by Executive Order 13863, the President took additional steps to deal with the national emergency with respect to significant transnational criminal organizations in view of the evolution of these organizations as well as the increasing sophistication of their activities, which threaten international political and economic systems and pose a direct threat to the safety and welfare of the United States and its citizens, and given the ability of these organizations to derive revenue through widespread illegal conduct, including acts of violence and abuse that exhibit a wanton disregard for human life as well as many other crimes enriching and empowering these organizations.
Significant transnational criminal organizations continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For these reasons, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13581 on July 24, 2011, under which additional steps were taken in Executive Order 13863 on March 15, 2019, must continue in effect beyond July 24, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to significant transnational criminal organizations declared in Executive Order 13581.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 16, 2024.
Memorandum of July 19, 2024

# Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Section 9902(a)(3)(B) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021

# Memorandum for the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 9902(a)(3)(B) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283) with respect to the certification and reporting requirements regarding Federal investments in individual projects exceeding $3 billion.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 19, 2024.
Memorandum of July 19, 2024

# Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under the Protecting American Intellectual Property Act of 2022

# Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby order as follows:
Section 1
. (a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, with input from the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies), as appropriate, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 2(a) of the Protecting American Intellectual Property Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-336; 50 U.S.C. 1709) (the “Act”). To support the Secretary of State's preparation of the report required under section 2(a) of the Act, the Director of National Intelligence, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, and, as appropriate, the heads of other relevant agencies, shall provide pertinent information to the Secretary of State at least 90 days before the deadline for submission of the annual report to the appropriate congressional committees.
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads of other relevant agencies, as appropriate, the authority to select the
types of sanctions to be imposed under section 2(b)(1) of the Act. Once applicable sanctions are selected pursuant to section 2(b)(1) of the Act, I hereby delegate to the heads of other relevant agencies the authority to implement such sanctions, commensurate with their respective areas of responsibility.
(c) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 2(b)(2)(A) and section 2(d) of the Act.
(d) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 2(c) of the Act.
Sec. 2
. The delegations in this memorandum shall apply to any provisions of any future public laws that are the same or substantially the same as the provisions referenced in this memorandum. Any reference in this memorandum to the Act shall be deemed to be a reference to such Act as amended from time to time.
Sec. 3
. The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 19, 2024.
Memorandum of July 22, 2024

# Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities Under the Rebuilding Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for Ukrainians Act

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State [and] the Secretary of the Treasury
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby order as follows:
Section 1
. (a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 104(a)(1) and 104(a)(2)(A) of the Rebuilding Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for Ukrainians Act (Division F of Public Law 118-50) (the “Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 104(g), 104(i), 105(c), 105(e), and 105(g) of the Act.
Sec. 2
. The delegations in this memorandum shall apply to any provisions of any future public laws that are the same or substantially the same as those provisions referenced in this memorandum.
Sec. 3
. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 22, 2024.
Memorandum of July 24, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under the Protecting Americans From Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of the Treasury[,] the Secretary of Defense[,] the Attorney General[,] the Secretary of Commerce[,] the Secretary of Homeland Security[, and] the Director of National Intelligence
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby order as follows:
Section 1
. (a) I hereby delegate to the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, all authorities vested in the President by the Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act (Division H of Public Law 118-50).
(b) In exercising the authorities delegated in subsection (a) of this section, the Attorney General may, as appropriate, consult with the Director of National Intelligence and the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies (agencies).
Sec. 2
. (a) There is established a Committee for the Review of Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications (Committee), composed of the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence. Not later than 180 days after the date of this memorandum, the members of the Committee, through a process convened by National Security Council staff consistent with National Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021 (Renewing the National Security Council System), shall determine rules and procedures sufficient for the Committee to exercise the authorities delegated to the Attorney General under section 1 of this memorandum. Upon conclusion of the 180-day period, the Committee shall exercise those authorities in accordance with such rules and procedures.
(b) The Director of National Intelligence and the heads of other relevant agencies, as the Attorney General under section 1 of this memorandum or the Committee under section 2 of this memorandum determines appropriate, shall provide assessments of the threat to national security posed by foreign adversary controlled applications in connection with the discharge
of the responsibilities, respectively, of the Attorney General or the Committee. In providing such assessments, the Director of National Intelligence shall solicit and incorporate the views of the Intelligence Community, as appropriate.
Sec. 3
. The Attorney General is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 24, 2024.
Memorandum of July 26, 2024

# Deferred Enforced Departure for Certain Lebanese Nationals

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State [and] the Secretary of Homeland Security
Humanitarian conditions in southern Lebanon have significantly deteriorated due to tensions between Hezbollah and Israel. While I remain focused on de-escalating the situation and improving humanitarian conditions, many civilians remain in danger; therefore, I am directing the deferral of removal of certain Lebanese nationals who are present in the United States.
Pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct the foreign relations of the United States, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy interest of the United States to defer for 18 months the removal of any Lebanese national subject to the conditions and exceptions provided below.
Accordingly, I hereby direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take appropriate measures to defer for 18 months the removal of any Lebanese national who is present in the United States on the date of this memorandum, except for those:
(1) who have voluntarily returned to Lebanon after the date of this memorandum;
(2) who have not continuously resided in the United States since the date of this memorandum;
(3) who are inadmissible under section 212(a)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)) or deportable under section 237(a)(4) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(4));
(4) who have been convicted of any felony or two or more misdemeanors committed in the United States, or who meet any of the criteria set forth in section 208(b)(2)(A) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1158(b)(2)(A));
(5) who are subject to extradition;
(6) whose presence in the United States the Secretary of Homeland Security has determined is not in the interest of the United States or presents a danger to public safety; or
(7) whose presence in the United States the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe would have potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United States.
I further direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take appropriate measures to authorize employment for noncitizens whose removal has been deferred, as provided by this memorandum, for the duration of such deferral, and to consider suspending regulatory requirements with respect to F-1 nonimmigrant students who are Lebanese nationals as the Secretary of Homeland Security determines to be appropriate.
The Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 26, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-08 of July 26, 2024

# Agreement for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Singapore Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State [and] the Secretary of Energy
I have considered the proposed Agreement for Cooperation between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Singapore Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy (the “proposed Agreement”), along with the views, recommendations, and statements of the interested departments and agencies.
I have determined that the performance of the proposed Agreement will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Pursuant to section 123 b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(b)), I hereby approve the proposed Agreement and authorize the Secretary of State to arrange for its execution.
The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 26, 2024.
Notice of July 29, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Lebanon
On August 1, 2007, by Executive Order 13441, the President declared a national emergency with respect to Lebanon pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the actions of certain persons to undermine Lebanon's legitimate and democratically elected government or democratic institutions; to contribute to the deliberate breakdown in the rule of law in Lebanon, including through politically motivated violence and intimidation; to reassert Syrian control or contribute to Syrian interference in Lebanon; or to infringe upon or undermine Lebanese sovereignty. Such actions contribute to political and economic instability in that country and the region.
Certain ongoing activities, such as Iran's continuing arms transfers to Hizballah—which include increasingly sophisticated weapons systems—serve to undermine Lebanese sovereignty, contribute to political and economic instability in the region, and continue to constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on August 1, 2007, must continue in effect beyond August 1, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to Lebanon declared in Executive Order 13441.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
July 29, 2024.
Memorandum of July 29, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State:
(1) the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $200 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown; and
(2) the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $70 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, July 29, 2024.
Memorandum of August 5, 2024

# Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Section 6(a)-(c) of the United States-Taiwan Initiative on 21st-Century Trade First Agreement Implementation Act

# Memorandum for the United States Trade Representative
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate to the United States Trade Representative the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 6(a)-(c) of the United States-Taiwan Initiative on 21st-Century Trade First Agreement Implementation Act (Public Law 118-13), including to make and submit the required certification to the Congress and to consult with, and submit the required report to, the appropriate congressional committees.
The delegation in this memorandum shall apply to any provisions of any future public laws that are the same or substantially the same as those provisions referenced in this memorandum.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, August 5, 2024.
Notice of August 6, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Advancement by Countries of Concern in Sensitive Technologies and Products Critical for the Military, Intelligence, Surveillance, or Cyber-Enabled Capabilities of Such Countries
On August 9, 2023, by Executive Order 14105, I declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security of the United States constituted by the advancement by countries of concern in sensitive technologies and products critical for the military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities of such countries. As described in Executive Order 14105, this threat to the national security of the United States has its source in whole or substantial part outside the United States, and certain United States investments risk exacerbating this threat.
Certain ongoing activities, such as the comprehensive, long-term strategies of countries of concern that direct, facilitate, or otherwise support advancements in sensitive technologies and products that are critical to such countries' military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyber-enabled capabilities, significantly enhance such countries' ability to conduct activities that threaten the national security of the United States. As part of this ongoing strategy of advancing the development of these sensitive technologies and products, countries of concern are exploiting or have the ability to exploit certain United States outbound investments, including certain intangible benefits that often accompany United States investments and that help companies succeed. Such investments risk exacerbating this threat to United States national security.
For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14105 of August 9, 2023, must continue in effect beyond August 9, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14105 with respect to the threat posed by the advancement by countries of concern in sensitive technologies and products critical for the military, intelligence, surveillance, or cyberenabled capabilities of such countries.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 6, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-10 of August 9, 2024

# Continuation of U.S. Drug Interdiction Assistance to the Government of Colombia

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State [and] the Secretary of Defense
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, and pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 1012 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2291-4), I hereby certify, with respect to Colombia, that: (1) interdiction of aircraft reasonably suspected to be primarily engaged in illicit drug trafficking in that country's airspace is necessary, because of the extraordinary threat posed by illicit drug trafficking to the national security of that country; and (2) Colombia has appropriate procedures in place to protect against innocent loss of life in the air and on the ground in connection with such interdiction, which includes effective means to identify and warn an aircraft before the use of force is directed against the aircraft.
The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
and to notify the Congress of this determination.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, August 9, 2024.
Memorandum of August 9, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $125 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, August 9, 2024.
Notice of August 13, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Export Control Regulations
On August 17, 2001, the President issued Executive Order 13222 pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq
.). In that order, the President declared a national emergency with respect to the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States related to the expiration of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. 4601
et seq
.). Because the implementation of certain sanctions authorities, including sections 11A, 11B, and 11C of such Export Administration Act of 1979, consistent with section 1766(b) of Public Law 115-232, the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801 note), is to be carried out under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the national emergency declared on August 17, 2001, must continue in effect beyond August 17, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13222, as amended by Executive Order 13637 of March 8, 2013.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
August 13, 2024.
Memorandum of August 16, 2024

# Delegation of Authority To Designate an Existing Official To Serve Within the Executive Branch as the Coordinator for Detained ISIS Members and Relevant Displaced Populations in Syria

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of the Treasury[,] the Secretary of Defense[,] the Attorney General[,] the Director of National Intelligence[,] the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs[, and] the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, and the Attorney General, the authority to designate an existing
official to serve within the executive branch as the Coordinator for Detained ISIS Members and Relevant Displaced Populations in Syria. This official will carry out the responsibilities consistent with section 1224 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), as amended by section 1262 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31).
The delegation in this memorandum shall apply to any provision of any future public law that is the same or substantially the same as the provision referenced in this memorandum.
Upon exercise of this authority, the Secretary of State shall provide notice to the President through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, August 16, 2024.
Memorandum of August 23, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $125 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, August 23, 2024.
Notice of September 6, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Ethiopia
On September 17, 2021, by Executive Order 14046, I declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the situation in and in relation to northern Ethiopia.
The situation in and in relation to northern Ethiopia, which has been marked by activities that threaten the peace, security, and stability of Ethiopia and the greater Horn of Africa region, continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14046 of September 17, 2021, must continue in effect beyond September 17, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14046 with respect to Ethiopia.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 6, 2024.
Memorandum of September 6, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $250 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 6, 2024.
Notice of September 9, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Certain Terrorist Attacks
Consistent with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act, 50 U.S.C. 1622(d), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency previously declared on September 14, 2001, in Proclamation 7463, with respect to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and the continuing and immediate threat of further attacks on the United States.
Because the terrorist threat continues, the national emergency declared on September 14, 2001, and the powers and authorities adopted to deal with that emergency must continue in effect beyond September 14, 2024. Therefore, I am continuing in effect for an additional year the national emergency that was declared on September 14, 2001, with respect to the terrorist threat.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 9, 2024.
Notice of September 9, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Foreign Interference in or Undermining Public Confidence in United States Elections
On September 12, 2018, by Executive Order 13848, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the threat of foreign interference in or undermining public confidence in United States elections.
Although there has been no evidence of a foreign power altering the outcomes or vote tabulation in any United States election, foreign powers have historically sought to exploit America's free and open political system. In recent years, the proliferation of digital devices and internet-based communications has created significant vulnerabilities and magnified the scope and intensity of the threat of foreign interference. The ability of persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside the United States to interfere in or undermine public confidence in United States elections, including through the unauthorized accessing of election and campaign infrastructure or the covert distribution of propaganda and disinformation, continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on September 12, 2018, must continue in effect beyond September 12, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13848 with respect to the threat of foreign interference in or undermining public confidence in United States elections.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 9, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-11 of September 13, 2024

# Continuation of the Exercise of Certain Authorities Under the Trading With the Enemy Act

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State [and] the Secretary of the Treasury
Under section 101(b) of Public Law 95-223 (91 Stat. 1625; 50 U.S.C. 4305 note), and a previous determination on September 13, 2023 (88
FR
64347, September 18, 2023), the exercise of certain authorities under the Trading With the Enemy Act is scheduled to expire on September 14, 2024.
I hereby determine that the continuation of the exercise of those authorities with respect to Cuba for 1 year is in the national interest of the United States.
Therefore, consistent with the authority vested in me by section 101(b) of Public Law 95-223, I continue for 1 year, until September 14, 2025, the exercise of those authorities with respect to Cuba, as implemented by the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, 31 CFR part 515.
The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 13, 2024.
Memorandum of September 13, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 7019(e) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2024

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State [and] the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the functions related to a comprehensive, multi-year strategy for the promotion of democracy abroad under section 7019(e) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2024 (Title VII of Division F of Public Law 118-47), and the accompanying Joint Explanatory Statement.
The delegation in this memorandum shall apply to any provision of any future public law that is the same or substantially the same as the provision referenced in this memorandum.
The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 13, 2024.
Memorandum of September 13, 2024

# Delegation of Certain Sanctions-Related Authorities Under Public Law 118-50

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of the Treasury[,] the Secretary of Defense[,] the Attorney General[, and] the Secretary of Commerce
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby order as follows:
Section 1
.
Stop Harboring Iranian Petroleum Act.
(a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 3(a), 3(c)(1), and 3(e) of the Stop Harboring Iranian Petroleum Act (Division J of Public Law 118-50) (the “SHIP Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 3(c)(2) of the SHIP Act.
(c) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 3(h) and 3(i) of the SHIP Act.
Sec. 2
.
Fight and Combat Rampant Iranian Missile Exports Act.
(a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 5(a)(1), 5(a)(2), 5(a)(3), and 5(a)(4) of the Fight and Combat Rampant Iranian Missile Exports Act (Division K of Public Law 118-50) (the “Fight CRIME Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 5(a)(5), 5(a)(6), 5(e), and 5(f) of the Fight CRIME Act.
(c) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 5(b)(1) of the Fight CRIME Act.
(d) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 5(d), 5(h), and 6(c) of the Fight CRIME Act.
Sec. 3
.
Mahsa Amini Human Rights and Security Accountability Act.
(a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:
(i) the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 2(c)(1)(A) and 2(c)(1)(B) of the Mahsa Amini Human Rights and Security Accountability Act (Division L of Public Law 118-50) (the “MAHSA Act”), with respect to sanctions listed in sections 2(c)(2)(A), 2(c)(2)(B), 2(c)(2)(C), 2(c)(2)(D), and 2(c)(2)(E) of the MAHSA Act; and
(ii) the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 2(c)(1)(C) of the MAHSA Act.
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 2(c)(1)(A) and 2(c)(1)(B) of the MAHSA Act, with respect to sanctions listed in sections 2(c)(2)(C) and 2(c)(2)(F) of the MAHSA Act.
(c) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 2(d)(5)(A) of the MAHSA Act, and to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 2(d)(5)(B), 2(d)(5)(C), and 2(d)(5)(D) of the MAHSA Act.
Sec. 4
.
Hamas and Other Palestinian Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act.
(a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 3(a) of the Hamas and Other Palestinian Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act (Division M of Public Law 118-50) (the “Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 3(c) of the Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act.
(c) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 3(f), 4(e), and 6 of the Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act.
(d) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies as the Secretary of State deems necessary, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 4(a) and 4(c)(1) of the Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act.
(e) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 4(c)(3) of the Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act for which they are responsible under the Arms Export Control Act and the Export Control Reform Act, respectively.
(f) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Commerce, commensurate with their respective areas of responsibility and in consultation with the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies as appropriate, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 4(f)(2) of the Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act.
(g) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 4(g) of the Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act.
(h) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 3(e), 4(f)(1), and 5 of the Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act.
Sec. 5
.
No Technology for Terror Act.
In exercising the functions and authorities described in section 2(d) of the No Technology for Terror Act (Division N of Public Law 118-50), I hereby direct the Secretary of Commerce to consult with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury.
Sec. 6
.
Strengthening Tools to Counter the Use of Human Shields Act.
(a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 5(a) of the Strengthening Tools to Counter the Use of Human Shields Act (Division O of Public Law 118-50) (the “Countering Use of Human Shields Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Attorney General, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 6(a) and 6(e)(1) of the Countering Use of Human Shields Act.
(c) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 6(d) of the Countering Use of Human Shields Act.
Sec. 7
.
Illicit Captagon Trafficking Suppression Act of 2023.
(a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 4(a), 4(b)(1), 4(e), 4(f), and 5 of the Illicit Captagon Trafficking Suppression Act of 2023 (Division P of Public Law 118-50) (the “Captagon Suppression Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 4(d)(1) of the Captagon Suppression Act.
(c) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 4(d)(2) of the Captagon Suppression Act.
Sec. 8
.
Holding Iranian Leaders Accountable Act of 2024.
(a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 3(a) of the Holding Iranian Leaders Accountable Act of 2024 (Division R of Public Law 118-50) (the “Holding Iranian Leaders Accountable Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 3(a)(3) of the Holding Iranian Leaders Accountable Act.
Sec. 9
. The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 13, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-12 of September 15, 2024

# Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit or Major Illicit Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year 2025

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including section 706(1) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228) (FRAA), I hereby identify the following countries as major drug transit or major illicit drug producing countries (including countries that are a significant direct source of precursor chemicals used in the production of certain drugs and substances significantly affecting the United States): Afghanistan, The Bahamas, Belize, Bolivia, Burma, the People's Republic of China (PRC), Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Jamaica, Laos, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, and Venezuela.
A country's presence on the foregoing list is not necessarily a reflection of its government's counterdrug efforts or level of cooperation with the United States. The list is not a sanction or penalty. Consistent with the statutory definition of a major drug transit or major illicit drug producing country set forth in sections 481(e)(2) and 481(e)(5) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (Public Law 87-195) (FAA), the reason countries are placed on the list is the combination of geographic, commercial, and economic factors that allow drugs or precursor chemicals to be transited or produced, even if a government has engaged in robust and diligent narcotics control and law enforcement measures. The James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263) amended the definition of major drug source countries to include source countries of precursor chemicals used to produce illicit drugs significantly affecting the United States.
Pursuant to section 706(2)(A) of the FRAA, I hereby designate Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela as having failed demonstrably during the previous 12 months to both adhere to their obligations under international counternarcotics agreements and to take the measures required by section 489(a)(1) of the FAA. Included with this determination are justifications for the designations of Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela, as required by section
706(2)(B) of the FRAA. I have also determined, in accordance with provisions of section 706(3)(A) of the FRAA, that United States programs that support Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela are vital to the national interests of the United States.
Provisional data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention indicate there were an estimated 107,543 drug overdose deaths in the United States during 2023—a decrease of 3 percent from the 111,029 deaths estimated in 2022. This is the first annual decrease in drug overdose deaths since 2018 and a sign that my Administration's historic investments are having an impact. Federally funded State Opioid Response grant programs have contributed to the prevention of over 600,000 potentially fatal overdoses and delivered nearly 10 million naloxone kits since 2020. Naloxone is available over-the-counter for the first time, thanks to actions taken by the Food and Drug Administration. Our workforce of addiction professionals continues to grow, providing the essential prevention, treatment, harm reduction, and recovery support services the American people need.
We are also taking unprecedented action to disrupt the supply of fentanyl, other deadly drugs, and precursor chemicals. U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has stopped more fentanyl at ports of entry over the last 2 years than in the previous 5 years combined, keeping tens of millions of fentanyl-laced pills and thousands of pounds of fentanyl powder away from our communities. In 2023 alone, CBP seized approximately 1.2 billion doses of fentanyl. In just the last 5 months, over 442 million potentially lethal doses of fentanyl were seized at United States borders. In 2021, I signed an Executive Order targeting foreign persons engaged in the global illicit drug trade and have since sanctioned more than 300 persons and entities under this authority, thus cutting them off from the United States' financial system. The Department of Justice has successfully arrested and prosecuted high-level drug cartel leaders, drug traffickers, and money launderers—placing dangerous traffickers behind bars.
While we expand our efforts at home, we also recognize this problem as a global one that requires a coordinated international response.
For this reason, my Administration launched a Global Coalition in July 2023 uniting more than 150 countries from every region of the world to address synthetic drug threats. Participation in this group has tripled in the past 12 months—evidence that every continent is experiencing an alarming increase in the manufacturing, trafficking, and consumption of dangerous illicit synthetic drugs. I have also engaged with leaders across the world to spur additional global action in the fight against synthetic opioids, negotiated the resumption of bilateral counternarcotics cooperation with the PRC, and established a Trilateral Fentanyl Committee with the Governments of Mexico and Canada.
While the challenges we face are more significant than ever, increased global awareness has yielded enhanced international action. In March, the United Nations (UN) Commission on Narcotic Drugs adopted a United States-sponsored resolution on preventing and responding to overdoses to drive international data collection and information sharing on this issue that remains deeply personal to the American people. The Commission also
voted to place international controls on chemicals used to manufacture illicit fentanyl, methamphetamine, and MDMA, making it harder for trafficking networks to use these substances to create and distribute these dangerous synthetic drugs.
Fostering robust, long-term partnerships with crucial allies such as Mexico is imperative for effectively combating the fentanyl epidemic and dismantling the sophisticated criminal organizations that exploit it for financial gain. The U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe Communities is the foundation for our bilateral efforts to protect our people, prevent trans-border crime, and pursue criminal networks. Through trilateral mechanisms such as the North American Drug Dialogue and the Trilateral Fentanyl Committee, the United States, Mexico, and Canada have strengthened cooperation to address illicit drug production, advance public health, increase collaboration on the control of precursor chemicals, and engage with the private sector to combat the production of illicit synthetic drugs. Our security cooperation has led to significant interdiction efforts in Mexico. For example, United States-donated canines supported the seizure of more than 3 million fentanyl pills in Mexico in 2023 alone. We will continue our close partnership with Mexico to prevent the diversion of precursor chemicals and drug-related equipment; improve interdiction, investigations, and criminal justice outcomes; disrupt illicit finance; advance border integration; and build public trust in security and justice institutions.
In South America, coca cultivation and cocaine production have reached record highs, necessitating urgent action by countries in the region. Colombia, a strong partner, continues to work closely with the United States to reduce cocaine production, conduct drug smuggling interdiction operations, and dismantle the criminal organizations involved in cocaine trafficking. United States assistance has led to increased interdictions, with the Colombian National Police seizing more than 841 metric tons of pure cocaine and cocaine base in 2023—a 10 percent increase from the previous year. The new metrics for measuring progress agreed upon during the U.S.-Colombia High Level Dialogue in May 2024 demonstrate our renewed bilateral commitment to a holistic approach to address the production and trafficking of cocaine, while providing security, justice, and licit economic opportunities for Colombia's vulnerable rural populations. We are also collaborating to combat crimes that wreak havoc on Colombia's environment and provide significant funding to criminal organizations, including those involved in cocaine production and illegal mining. The United States welcomed the release of Colombia's 10-year drug strategy in 2023 and now urges the Colombian government to resource it adequately and expedite its implementation.
Peru also remains a committed partner in reducing the production and trafficking of cocaine, and our first High Level Dialogue in May 2024 marked a positive step in our bilateral counternarcotics cooperation.
While the Government of Bolivia has taken positive steps to address coca cultivation, it must do more to safeguard the country's licit coca markets from criminal exploitation, reduce illicit coca cultivation that continues to exceed legal limits under Bolivia's domestic laws for medical and traditional use, improve efforts to locate and interdict chemicals diverted
through black market channels for processing cocaine, and expand cooperation with international partners to disrupt transnational criminal networks.
Opium poppy cultivation for the production of illicit opioids and methamphetamine in Afghanistan continues to require global attention and action. This past year has seen continued steps from Afghanistan to strengthen drug control and curb the production of illicit opioids and methamphetamine, including through the maintenance of an existing ban on poppy cultivation and efforts to reform drug policies. However, I will reconsider Afghanistan's status in each annual review to assess whether it is upholding its international drug control commitments.
The PRC has worked with the United States to coordinate efforts to counter the global manufacturing and trafficking of illicit synthetic drugs, including fentanyl, since the Woodside Summit between President Biden and President Xi in November 2023. Over the last year, the PRC took significant steps to reduce the flows of precursor chemicals to illicit drug producers known to be trafficking synthetic drugs, such as illicit fentanyl, into the United States. These steps included the PRC issuing a public notice to the PRC chemical industry warning against illicit trade in precursor chemicals and pill press equipment; taking public law enforcement actions against illicit precursor chemical suppliers; removing web-based advertisements; and scheduling 46 synthetic drugs effective July 1, 2024, some of which had been controlled internationally by the UN. The United States and the PRC also launched the U.S.-PRC Counternarcotics Working Group, a valuable mechanism for sharing law enforcement information, tackling the illicit financing of illicit drugs, and ensuring ongoing coordination on shared challenges. That said, sustained enforcement and regulatory action will be necessary to significantly reduce the PRC's role as a source of precursor chemicals used in the production, sale, and trafficking of illicit synthetic drugs significantly impacting the United States.
You are authorized and directed to submit this designation, with the Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela memoranda of justification, under section 706 of the FRAA, to the Congress, and to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 15, 2024.
Notice of September 18, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Persons Who Commit, Threaten To Commit, or Support Terrorism
On September 23, 2001, by Executive Order 13224, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq
.) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the grave acts of terrorism and threats of terrorism committed by foreign terrorists, including the terrorist attacks on
September 11, 2001, in New York and Pennsylvania and against the Pentagon, and the continuing and immediate threat of further attacks against United States nationals or the United States.
On September 9, 2019, the President signed Executive Order 13886 to strengthen and consolidate sanctions to combat the continuing threat posed by international terrorism and to take additional steps to deal with the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13224, as amended.
The actions of persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001, as amended, and the measures adopted to deal with that emergency, must continue in effect beyond September 23, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism declared in Executive Order 13224, as amended.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 18, 2024.
Memorandum of September 25, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State:
(1) the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $375 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown; and
(2) the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $103 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 25,2024.
Memorandum of September 26, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(1) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $5.55 billion in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Ukraine and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 26, 2024.
Memorandum of September 29, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(3) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up to $567 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Taiwan.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 29, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-13 of September 30, 2024

# Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2025

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the “Act”) (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorize the following actions:
The admission of up to 125,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest.
The admissions numbers shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in accordance with the following regional allocations:
Africa
30,000-50,000
East Asia
10,000-20,000
Europe and Central Asia
2,000-3,000
Latin America/Caribbean
35,000-50,000
Near East/South Asia
30,000-45,000
The above allocation ranges are intended to provide flexibility as needs arise, but the total admissions among all of the regions may not exceed 125,000. Upon providing notification to the Judiciary Committees of the Congress, you are hereby authorized to transfer unused admissions allocated to a particular region to one or more other regions, if there is a need for greater admissions for the region or regions to which the admissions are being transferred.
Consistent with section 2(b)(2) of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(b)(2)), I hereby determine that assistance to or on behalf of persons applying for admission to the United States as part of the overseas refugee admissions program will contribute to the foreign policy interests of the United States and designate such persons for this purpose.
Consistent with section 101(a)(42) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I also specify that, for FY 2025, the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purpose of admission to the United States within their countries of nationality or habitual residence:
a. Persons in Cuba;
b. Persons in Eurasia and the Baltics;
c. Persons in Iraq;
d. Persons in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras; and
e. In certain circumstances, persons identified by a United States Embassy or by an authorized State Department referral partner in any location.
You are authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 30, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-14 of September 30, 2024

# Presidential Determination With Respect to the Efforts of Foreign Governments Regarding Trafficking in Persons

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Consistent with section 110 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7107) (the “Act”), as amended, I hereby determine as follows:
As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act, that the United States will not provide nonhumanitarian, nontrade-related assistance to the Governments of Burma and Iran for Fiscal Year (FY) 2025 until such governments comply with the Act's minimum standards or make significant efforts to bring themselves into compliance with the minimum standards;
As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act, that the United States will not provide nonhumanitarian, nontrade-related assistance to, or allow funding for participation in educational and cultural exchange programs by officials or employees of, the Governments of Belarus, Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), Eritrea, Macau (Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China (PRC)), Nicaragua, the PRC, Russia, and Syria for FY 2025 until such governments comply with the Act's minimum standards or make significant efforts to bring themselves into compliance with the minimum standards;
As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act, I hereby instruct the United States Executive Director of each multilateral development bank, as defined in the Act, and of the International Monetary Fund to vote against and use best efforts to deny any loan or other utilization of the funds of the respective institution (other than for humanitarian assistance; for trade-related assistance; or for development assistance that directly addresses basic human needs, is not administered by the government of such country, and confers no benefit to that government) for the Governments of Belarus, Burma, Cuba, the DPRK, Eritrea, Iran, Macau (Special Administrative Region of the PRC), Nicaragua, the PRC, Russia, South Sudan, and Syria for
FY 2025 until such governments comply with the Act's minimum standards or make significant efforts to bring themselves into compliance with the minimum standards;
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that the provision of all nonhumanitarian, nontrade-related foreign assistance programs, projects, activities, and funding for educational and cultural exchange programs described in sections 110(d)(1)(A) and 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act to Brunei, Djibouti, Papua New Guinea, Turkmenistan, and Venezuela would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the United States;
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that providing the assistance described in section 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act to Afghanistan, Cambodia, and Sudan would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the United States;
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that a partial waiver with respect to Belarus, Eritrea, Macau (Special Administrative Region of the PRC), the PRC, and Russia to allow funding for educational and cultural exchange programs described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the United States;
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to Afghanistan, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for Economic Support Fund and Global Health Programs (GHP) assistance would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the United States;
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to Cambodia, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for all assistance and programs other than education programs funded from Development Assistance (DA) would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the United States;
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to South Sudan, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for GHP assistance would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the United States; and
Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to Sudan, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for DA and GHP assistance would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the United States.
In addition, with respect to the Government of Sint Maarten, consistent with the United States Government's firm stand against human trafficking, and until such government takes steps consistent with compliance with the minimum standards of the Act or makes significant efforts to do so, I hereby: (i) direct that executive departments and agencies shall not provide nonhumanitarian, nontrade-related foreign assistance, as described in section 110(d)(1)(A) of the Act, to the Government of Sint Maarten; (ii) instruct the United States Executive Director of each multilateral development bank, as defined in the Act, and of the International Monetary Fund to vote
against and use best efforts to deny any loan or other utilization of the funds of the respective institution (other than for humanitarian assistance, for trade-related assistance, or for development assistance that directly addresses basic human needs, is not administered by such government, and confers no benefit to that government) to Sint Maarten, as described in section 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act; and (iii) direct that funding for participation by officials or employees of the Government of Sint Maarten in educational and cultural exchange programs shall continue to be permitted in FY 2025, consistent with the foreign policy and all applicable laws of the United States.
You are authorized and directed to submit this determination, the certification required by section 110(e) of the Act, and the Memorandum of Justification, on which I have relied, to the Congress, and to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 30, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2024-15 of September 30, 2024

# Presidential Determination and Certification With Respect to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
Pursuant to section 404 of the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2370c-1) (CSPA), I hereby:
Determine that it is in the national interest of the United States to waive in part the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with respect to Cameroon to allow for the provision of International Military Education and Training (IMET) and Peacekeeping Operations (PKO) assistance, the issuance of direct commercial sales (DCS) licenses, and support provided pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 331 and 10 U.S.C. 333, to the extent that the CSPA would restrict such assistance or support; to waive in part the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with respect to Libya to allow for the provision of IMET and PKO assistance, the issuance of DCS licenses in connection with the export or reexport of transport aircraft and related parts, components, and technical data, and support provided pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 331 and 10 U.S.C. 333, to the extent that the CSPA would restrict such assistance or support; to waive in part the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with respect to Somalia to allow for the provision of IMET and PKO assistance and support provided pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 331 and 10 U.S.C. 333, to the extent that the CSPA would restrict such assistance or support; to waive in part the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with respect to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Yemen to allow for the provision of IMET and PKO assistance, to the extent that the CSPA would restrict such assistance; to waive in part the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA with respect to the Central African Republic to allow for the provision of IMET assistance, to the extent that the CSPA
would restrict such assistance; and to waive the application of the prohibition in section 404(a) of the CSPA to allow for the issuance of DCS licenses related to other United States Government assistance for the above countries and, with respect to the Russian Federation, solely for the issuance of DCS licenses in connection with the International Space Station; and
Certify that the governments of the above countries are taking effective and continuing steps to address the problem of child soldiers.
Accordingly, I hereby waive such applications of section 404(a) of the CSPA.
You are authorized and directed to submit this determination and certification to the Congress, along with the Memorandum of Justification, and to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 30, 2024.Presidential Permit of October 3, 2024

# Authorizing Southwebb Bridge Company LLC To Construct, Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing Near Laredo, Texas, at the International Boundary Between the United States and Mexico
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America (the “President”), I hereby grant permission, subject to the conditions set forth herein, to Southwebb Bridge Company LLC (the “permittee”) to construct, maintain, and operate a vehicular and pedestrian crossing located on the United States border with Mexico in Laredo, Texas, as described in the “Presidential Permit Application Laredo 4/5 International Bridge” dated March 15, 2022 (“March 15, 2022, Application”), by the permittee to the Secretary of State and determined to be complete on June 6, 2024, in accordance with 33 U.S.C. 535d and associated procedures.
The term “Border facilities” as used in this permit consists of the bridge, its approaches, and any land, structures, installations, or equipment appurtenant thereto located on the United States side of the international boundary between the United States and Mexico in the proposed project site located approximately 12.6 miles south/southeast of the City of Laredo, Texas, approximately 3.0 miles west of U.S. Highway 83, approximately 4.4 miles southwest of Texas State Highway Loop 20, approximately 10.5 miles southwest of State Highway 359, and approximately 10.6 miles south of Interstate Highway 35.
This permit is subject to the following conditions:
Article 1.
The Border facilities herein described and all aspects of their operation are subject to all the conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any subsequent Presidential amendment to it. The construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities shall be in all material respects as described in the March 15, 2022, Application.
Article 2.
The standards for and the manner of construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities are subject to inspection by the representatives of appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies. The permittee shall grant officers and employees of such agencies that are duly authorized and performing their official duties free and unrestricted access to said Border facilities.
Article 3.
The permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations regarding the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities.
Article 4.
(1) The permittee shall take or cause to be taken all appropriate measures to mitigate adverse impacts on or disruption of the human environment in connection with the construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities. Mitigation measures are those that avoid, minimize, or compensate for adverse impacts.
(2) The permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the United States for any claimed or adjudged liability arising out of construction, maintenance, and operation of the Border facilities, including environmental contamination from the release, threatened release, or discharge of hazardous substances or hazardous waste.
(3) The permittee is responsible for obtaining any required Federal, State, and local permits, approvals, and authorizations prior to commencing construction activities. The permittee shall implement the mitigation identified in any environmental decision documents prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and Federal permits, including stormwater permits and permits issued in accordance with section 402 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1342). The permittee shall comply with applicable Federal, State, and local environmental laws.
Article 5.
The permittee shall immediately notify the President or the President's designee of any decision to transfer custody and control of the Border facilities or any part thereof to any executive department or agency (agency) of the United States Government. Said notice shall identify the transferee agency and seek the approval of the President for the transfer of the permit. In the event of approval by the President of such transfer, this permit shall remain in force and effect, and the Border facilities shall be subject to all the conditions, permissions, and requirements of this permit and any amendments thereof. The permittee may transfer ownership or control of the Border facilities to a non-Federal entity or individual only upon the prior express approval of such transfer by the President, which approval may include such conditions, permissions, and requirements that the President, in the President's discretion, determines are appropriate and necessary for inclusion in the permit, to be effective on the date of transfer.
Article 6.
The permittee is responsible for acquiring and maintaining any right-of-way grants or easements, permits, and other authorizations as may become necessary or appropriate. To ensure the safe operation of the Border facilities, the permittee shall maintain them and every part of them in a condition of good repair and in compliance with applicable law and use of best management practices.
Article 7.
To the extent authorized by law, and consistent with any Donation Acceptance Agreements (DAAs) already executed with the permittee
under the Donation Acceptance Authority found in 6 U.S.C. 301a and section 559 of title V of division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), as amended, as continued by 6 U.S.C. 301b, the permittee shall provide to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (Commissioner) of the Department of Homeland Security and the heads of any other relevant agencies, at no cost to the United States, suitable inspection facilities, infrastructure improvements, equipment, and maintenance, as set forth in the DAAs. Nothing in this permit obligates such agencies to provide a particular level of services or staffing for such inspection facilities or for any other aspect of the port of entry associated with the Border facilities.
Article 8.
Before beginning design activities, the permittee shall fulfill requirements associated with the following conditions, as refined by the relevant agencies below and as consistent with applicable law:
(1) Obtain the concurrence of the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico;
(2) Provide a plan for the approval of the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund the necessary staffing by U.S. Customs and Border Protection for the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter;
(3) Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator of General Services (Administrator) and the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund the necessary operations and maintenance costs for the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter;
(4) Provide a plan for the approval of the Administrator and the Commissioner detailing how the permittee will fund construction, outfitting (furniture, fixtures, and equipment to include information technology and necessary inspection technologies), technology integration, and outyear refresh of said program elements for the Border facilities detailed in their March 15, 2022, Application; and
(5) Provide a plan for the approval of the Secretary of Transportation detailing construction and funding of commercial motor vehicle inspection facilities and detailing how the permittee will ensure the necessary funding for appropriate Department of Transportation staffing and operations and maintenance costs for the Border facilities upon commencement of operations and thereafter.
Relevant agencies will coordinate with the permittee to further refine the above conditions, as necessary, within 1 year of permit issuance.
Article 9.
The permittee shall not initiate construction until the Department of State has provided notification to the permittee that the Department of State has completed its exchange of diplomatic notes with the Government of Mexico regarding authorization. The permittee shall provide written notification to the President or the President's designee at the time that the construction authorized by this permit begins, at the time as such construction is completed, interrupted, or discontinued, and at other times as may be requested by the President.
Article 10.
Upon request, the permittee shall provide appropriate information to the President or the President's designee with regard to the Border facilities. Such requests could include requests for information concerning
current conditions, environmental compliance, mitigation, or anticipated changes in ownership or control, construction, connection, operation, or maintenance of the Border facilities.
Article 11.
The permittee shall file any applicable statements and reports required by applicable Federal law in connection with the Border facilities.
Article 12.
The permittee shall make no substantial change inconsistent with the March 15, 2022, Application to the Border facilities, in the location of the Border facilities, or in the operation authorized by this permit, unless such changes have been approved by the President. The President may terminate, revoke, or amend this permit at any time at the President's sole discretion. The permittee's obligation to implement any amendment to this permit is subject to the availability of funds. If the permittee permanently closes the Laredo 4/5 International Bridge and it is no longer used as an international crossing, then this permit shall terminate, and the permittee may manage, utilize, or dispose of the Border facilities in accordance with applicable authorities. This permit shall continue in full force and effect for only so long as the permittee continues the operations hereby authorized.
Article 13.
This permit shall expire 5 years from the date of its issuance if the permittee has not commenced construction of the Border facilities by that date.
Article 14.
This permit is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, have hereunto set my hand this third day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 3, 2024.
Notice of October 10, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in and in Relation to Syria
On October 14, 2019, by Executive Order 13894, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the situation in and in relation to Syria.
The situation in and in relation to Syria undermines the campaign to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, endangers civilians, and further threatens to undermine the peace, security, and stability in the region, and continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national
emergency declared in Executive Order 13894 of October 14, 2019, must continue in effect beyond October 14, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13894 with respect to the situation in and in relation to Syria.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 10, 2024.
Notice of October 11, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Narcotics Traffickers Centered in Colombia
On October 21, 1995, by Executive Order 12978, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the actions of significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia and the extreme level of violence, corruption, and harm such actions cause in the United States and abroad.
The actions of significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States and cause an extreme level of violence, corruption, and harm in the United States and abroad. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12978 of October 21, 1995, must continue in effect beyond October 21, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia declared in Executive Order 12978.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 11, 2024.
Notice of October 11, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Democratic Republic of the Congo
On October 27, 2006, by Executive Order 13413, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of the United States constituted by the situation in or in relation to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has been marked by widespread violence and atrocities that continue to threaten regional stability. The President took additional steps to address this national emergency in Executive Order 13671 of July 8, 2014.
The situation in or in relation to the Democratic Republic of the Congo continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13413 of October 27, 2006, as amended by Executive Order 13671 of July 8, 2014, must continue in effect beyond October 27, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to the situation in or in relation to the Democratic Republic of the Congo declared in Executive Order 13413, as amended by Executive Order 13671.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 11, 2024.
Memorandum of October 16, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $14 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, October 16, 2024.
Memorandum of October 21, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $64 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, October 21, 2024.
Notice of October 25, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Sudan
On November 3, 1997, by Executive Order 13067, the President declared a national emergency with respect to Sudan pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and took related steps to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States posed by the actions and policies of the Government of Sudan. On April 26, 2006, by Executive Order 13400, the President determined that the conflict in Sudan's Darfur region posed an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067, and ordered the blocking of property of certain persons connected to the Darfur region. On October 13, 2006, by Executive Order 13412, the President took additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067 and expanded in Executive Order 13400. In Executive Order 13412, the President also took steps to implement the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-344).
On January 13, 2017, by Executive Order 13761, the President found that positive efforts by the Government of Sudan between July 2016 and January 2017 improved certain conditions that Executive Orders 13067 and 13412
were intended to address. Given these developments, and in order to encourage the Government of Sudan to sustain and enhance these efforts, section 1 of Executive Order 13761 provided that sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order 13067 and the entirety of Executive Order 13412 would be revoked as of July 12, 2017, provided that the criteria in section 12(b) of Executive Order 13761 had been met.
On July 11, 2017, by Executive Order 13804, the President amended Executive Order 13761, extending until October 12, 2017, the effective date in section 1 of Executive Order 13761. On October 12, 2017, pursuant to Executive Order 13761, as amended by Executive Order 13804, sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order 13067 and the entirety of Executive Order 13412 were revoked.
On May 4, 2023, by Executive Order 14098, I further expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067, finding that the situation in Sudan, including the military's seizure of power in October 2021 and the outbreak of inter-service fighting in April 2023, constituted an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States.
The crisis that led to the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order 13067 of November 3, 1997; the expansion of the scope of that emergency in Executive Order 13400 of April 26, 2006; the taking of additional steps with respect to that emergency in Executive Order 13412 of October 13, 2006, Executive Order 13761 of January 13, 2017, and Executive Order 13804 of July 11, 2017; and the further expansion of the scope of that emergency in Executive Order 14098 of May 4, 2023, has not been resolved. The policies and actions of the Government of Sudan, and the situation in Sudan and Darfur, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067, as expanded by Executive Orders 13400 and 14098, must continue in effect beyond November 3, 2024.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
October 25, 2024.
Notice of November 1, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Iran
On November 14, 1979, by Executive Order 12170, the President declared a national emergency with respect to Iran pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and took related steps to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the situation in Iran.
Our relations with Iran have not yet normalized, and the process of implementing the agreements with Iran, dated January 19, 1981, is ongoing. For this reason, the national emergency declared on November 14, 1979, and the measures adopted on that date to deal with that emergency, must continue in effect beyond November 14, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency with respect to Iran declared in Executive Order 12170.
The emergency declared by Executive Order 12170 is distinct from the emergency declared in Executive Order 12957 on March 15, 1995. This renewal, therefore, is distinct from the emergency renewal of March 12, 2024.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 1, 2024.
Memorandum of November 1, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $76 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, November 1, 2024.
Notice of November 7, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction
On November 14, 1994, by Executive Order 12938, the President declared a national emergency with respect to the unusual and extraordinary threat
to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States posed by the proliferation of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons (weapons of mass destruction) and the means of delivering such weapons. On July 28, 1998, by Executive Order 13094, the President amended Executive Order 12938 to respond more effectively to the worldwide threat of weapons of mass destruction proliferation activities. On June 28, 2005, by Executive Order 13382, the President, among other things, further amended Executive Order 12938 to improve our ability to combat proliferation. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the means of delivering them continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12938 of November 14, 1994, with respect to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the means of delivering such weapons must continue beyond November 14, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 12938, as amended.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 7, 2024.
Notice of November 7, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Certain Companies of the People's Republic of China
On November 12, 2020, by Executive Order 13959, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by the threat from securities investments that finance certain companies of the People's Republic of China (PRC).
The President found that the PRC is exploiting United States capital to resource and enable the development and modernization of its military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses, which continues to allow the PRC to directly threaten the United States homeland and United States forces overseas. Through the national strategy of Military-Civil Fusion, the PRC increases the size of the country's military-industrial complex by compelling civilian Chinese companies to support its military and intelligence activities. Those companies, though remaining ostensibly private and civilian, directly support the PRC's military, intelligence, and security apparatuses and aid in their development and modernization. At the same time, those companies raise capital by selling securities to United States investors that trade on public exchanges both here and abroad, lobbying
United States index providers and funds to include these securities in market offerings, and engaging in other acts to ensure access to United States capital.
The President further found that the PRC's military-industrial complex, by directly supporting the efforts of the PRC's military, intelligence, and other security apparatuses, constituted an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.
On January 13, 2021, the President signed Executive Order 13974 amending Executive Order 13959.
On June 3, 2021, I signed Executive Order 14032, which expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13959. I found that additional steps are necessary to address that national emergency, including the threat posed by the military-industrial complex of the PRC and its involvement in military, intelligence, and security research and development programs, and weapons and related equipment production under the PRC's Military-Civil Fusion strategy. In addition, I found that the use of Chinese surveillance technology outside the PRC and the development or use of Chinese surveillance technology to facilitate repression or serious human rights abuse constituted unusual and extraordinary threats to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States, and I expanded the national emergency to address these threats. Executive Order 14032 amended Executive Order 13959 and revoked Executive Order 13974 in its entirety.
The threat from securities investments that finance certain companies of the PRC and certain uses and development of Chinese surveillance technology continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.
For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13959 of November 12, 2020, expanded in scope by Executive Order 14032 of June 3, 2021, must continue in effect beyond November 12, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13959 with respect to the threat from securities investments that finance certain companies of the PRC and expanded in Executive Order 14032.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 7, 2024.
Presidential Determination No. 2025-01 of November 7, 2024

# Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of the Treasury[, and] the Secretary of Energy
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, after carefully considering the reports submitted to the Congress by the Energy Information Administration, including the report submitted in October 2024, and other relevant factors, including global economic conditions, the level of spare capacity, and the availability of strategic reserves, I determine, pursuant to section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, Public Law 112-81, and consistent with prior determinations, that there is a sufficient supply of petroleum and petroleum products from countries other than Iran to permit a significant reduction in the volume of petroleum and petroleum products purchased from Iran by or through foreign financial institutions.
I will continue to monitor this situation closely.
The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish this determination in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, November 7, 2024.
Memorandum of November 15, 2024

# Delegation of Authorities Under Sections 507(d) and 508(a) of the Ukraine Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authorities under sections 507(d) and 508(a) of the Ukraine Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024 (Division B of Public Law 118-50).
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, November 15, 2024.
Memorandum of November 20, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 614(a)(1) of the FAA to determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to $35 million in assistance to Ukraine without regard to any provision of law within the purview of section 614(a)(1) of the FAA.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, November 20, 2024.
Notice of November 22, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in Nicaragua
On November 27, 2018, by Executive Order 13851, the President declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq
.) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the situation in Nicaragua. On October 24, 2022, I issued Executive Order 14088 to take additional steps with respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851.
The situation in Nicaragua, including the violent response by the Government of Nicaragua to the protests that began on April 18, 2018, and the Ortega-Murillo regime's continued systematic dismantling and undermining of democratic institutions and the rule of law, its use of indiscriminate violence and repressive tactics against civilians, as well as its corruption leading to the destabilization of Nicaragua's economy, continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on November 27, 2018, must continue in effect beyond November 27, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13851 with respect to the situation in Nicaragua.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
November 22, 2024.
Notice of December 11, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Serious Human Rights Abuse and Corruption
On December 20, 2017, by Executive Order 13818, the President declared a national emergency with respect to serious human rights abuse and corruption around the world and, pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
), took related steps to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.
The prevalence and severity of human rights abuse and corruption that have their source, in whole or in substantial part, outside the United States, continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared on December 20, 2017, must continue in effect beyond December 20, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13818 with respect to serious human rights abuse and corruption.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 11, 2024.
Notice of December 11, 2024

# Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Global Illicit Drug Trade
On December 15, 2021, by Executive Order 14059, I declared a national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States constituted by global illicit drug trafficking.
The trafficking into the United States of illicit drugs, including fentanyl and other synthetic opioids, is causing the deaths of tens of thousands of Americans annually, as well as countless more non-fatal overdoses with
their own tragic human toll. Drug cartels, transnational criminal organizations, and their facilitators are the primary sources of illicit drugs and precursor chemicals that fuel the current opioid epidemic, as well as drug-related violence that harms our communities. International drug trafficking—including the illicit production, global sale, and widespread distribution of illegal drugs; the rise of extremely potent drugs such as fentanyl and other synthetic opioids; as well as the growing role of internet-based drug sales—continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States. For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14059 of December 15, 2021, must continue in effect beyond December 15, 2024. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14059 with respect to global illicit drug trafficking.
This notice shall be published in the
Federal Register
and transmitted to the Congress.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
December 11, 2024.
Memorandum of December 11, 2024

# Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Sections 1352 and 1353 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State[,] the Secretary of Defense[,] the Secretary of Energy[, and] the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code:
Section 1
. (a) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 1352(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31) (the “Act”).
(b) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of State and Energy and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 1352(e)(1)(A) of the Act.
(c) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the functions and authorities vested in the President by section 1352(f)(2) of the Act.
(d) I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense for funds transferred to Department of Defense accounts and to the Secretary of Energy for funds
transferred to Department of Energy accounts, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 1353(c), 1353(e)(1)(D), and 1353(e)(3) of the Act.
(e) I hereby delegate to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, as appropriate, the functions and authorities vested in the President by sections 1353(a), 1353(e)(1)(A), 1353(e)(2), and 1353(f)(1) of the Act.
Sec. 2
. The delegation in this memorandum shall apply to any provision of any future public law that is the same or substantially the same as the provision referenced in this memorandum.
Sec. 3
. The Secretary of Defense is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, December 11, 2024.
Memorandum of December 12, 2024

# Establishment of the China Censorship Monitor and Action Group

# Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and to monitor and address the effects of any efforts by the People's Republic of China (PRC), either directly or through proxies, to censor or intimidate any United States person, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
Consistent with section 5515(b) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263, 22 U.S.C. 3363(b)) (the “Act”), I am directing the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Director of the National Economic Council to lead an interagency effort to oversee the development and execution of an integrated Federal Government strategy to monitor and address the effects of any efforts by the PRC to censor or intimidate, in the United States or in any of its possessions or territories, any United States person, including a United States company that conducts business in the PRC, exercising its freedom of speech.
Sec. 2
.
Establishment.
There is established within the Executive Office of the President the China Censorship Monitor and Action Group (Task Force).
Sec. 3
.
Membership.
(a) The Task Force shall be chaired by the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, or his or her designee, and vice-chaired by the Director of the National Economic Council, or his or her designee.
(b) In addition to the Chair and the Vice Chair, the Task Force shall consist of representatives from the following executive departments and agencies (agencies), the heads of which shall designate or appoint personnel at the level of Assistant Secretary or above to participate in the Task Force:
(i) the Department of State;
(ii) the Department of the Treasury;
(iii) the Department of Defense;
(iv) the Department of Justice;
(v) the Department of Agriculture;
(vi) the Department of Commerce;
(vii) the Department of Education;
(viii) the Department of Homeland Security;
(ix) the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;
(x) the Office of the United States Trade Representative;
(xi) the Central Intelligence Agency;
(xii) the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and
(xiii) other agencies and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.
Sec. 4
.
Mission and Function.
The Task Force shall meet not less frequently than twice per year to oversee the development and execution of the integrated Federal Government strategy described in section 5515(b)(3)(A) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3363(b)(3)(A)). That strategy shall reflect the collective views of the members of the Task Force and shall be informed by consultations with agencies and independent agencies that are not represented on the Task Force; relevant stakeholders in the private sector and the media; and relevant stakeholders among foreign allies and partners of the United States.
Sec. 5
.
Annual Report of the Task Force.
(a) Within 120 days of the date of this memorandum, the Task Force shall submit to the President and the appropriate congressional committees, as defined in section 5515(a)(1) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3363(a)(1)), the strategy described in section 5515(b)(3)(A) of the Act.
(b) Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, the Task Force shall submit to the President and the appropriate congressional committees, and make publicly available to the extent consistent with national security and other executive branch confidentiality interests, the first annual report described in section 5515(b)(6)(A)-(B) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3363(b)(6)).
(c) Within 1 year of submitting the first annual report described in subsection (b) of this section, and every year thereafter, the Task Force shall submit to the President and the appropriate congressional committees, and make publicly available to the extent consistent with national security and other executive branch confidentiality interests, the required follow-on annual reports described in section 5515(b)(6)(A)-(B) of the Act, until the requirement terminates as specified in section 5515(d) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3363(d)).
Sec. 6
.
Definition.
For purposes of this memorandum, the term “United States person” shall have the meaning provided in section 5515(a)(3) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3363(a)(3)).
Sec. 7
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
(d) The Attorney General is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, December 12, 2024.
Memorandum of December 12, 2024

# Establishment of the Countering Economic Coercion Task Force

# Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and to improve efforts to respond to coercive economic practices of countries of concern, including the People's Republic of China (PRC), it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1
.
Policy.
Consistent with section 5514 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263, 22 U.S.C. 3362) (the “Act”), I am directing the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and the Director of the National Economic Council to oversee an interagency effort to address the increasing use of economic coercion by countries of concern, including the PRC; to assess potential vulnerabilities of countries, including within their private sectors, to such coercion; and to develop concrete recommendations for a comprehensive, effective, and, as appropriate, multilateral response, including to deter future coercive economic behavior.
Sec. 2
.
Establishment.
There is established within the Executive Office of the President the Countering Economic Coercion Task Force (Task Force).
Sec. 3
.
Membership.
(a) The Task Force shall be chaired by the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, or his or her designee, and vice-chaired by the Director of the National Economic Council, or his or her designee.
(b) In addition to the Chair and the Vice Chair, the Task Force shall consist of representatives from the following executive departments and agencies (agencies), the heads of which shall designate or appoint personnel at the level of Assistant Secretary or above to participate in the Task Force:
(i) the Department of State;
(ii) the Department of the Treasury;
(iii) the Department of Defense;
(iv) the Department of Justice;
(v) the Department of Agriculture;
(vi) the Department of Commerce;
(vii) the Department of Labor;
(viii) the Department of Health and Human Services;
(ix) the Department of Energy;
(x) the Department of Homeland Security;
(xi) the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;
(xii) the Office of the United States Trade Representative;
(xiii) the Central Intelligence Agency;
(xiv) the United States Agency for International Development;
(xv) the Export-Import Bank of the United States;
(xvi) the Trade and Development Agency;
(xvii) the United States International Development Finance Corporation; and
(xviii) other agencies and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.
Sec. 4
.
Mission and Function.
The Task Force shall work across agencies and offices to oversee the development and implementation of an integrated United States Government strategy to respond to and deter coercive economic practices by countries of concern, including the PRC. That strategy shall include the elements outlined in section 5514(c)(1)(A) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3362(c)(1)(A)) and shall, consistent with section 5514(c)(2) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3362(c)(2)), be informed by consultations with relevant stakeholders, including, as necessary and appropriate, stakeholders in the private sector, agencies that are not represented on the Task Force, and foreign allies and partners of the United States. The Task Force shall also perform the other responsibilities set forth in section 5514(c)(1) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3362(c)(1)).
Sec. 5
.
Reporting on the Work and Recommendations of the Task Force.
(a) Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, the Task Force shall submit to the Congress the initial report described in section 5514(e)(1) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3362(e)(1)).
(b) Within 1 year of submitting the initial report described in subsection (a) of this section, the Task Force shall submit to the Congress the first interim report described in section 5514(e)(2)(A) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3362(e)(2)(A)).
(c) Within 1 year of submitting the first interim report described in subsection (b) of this section, the Task Force shall submit to the Congress the second interim report described in section 5514(e)(2)(B) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3362(e)(2)(B)).
(d) Within 30 days of submitting the second interim report described in subsection (c) of this section, the Task Force shall submit to the Congress the final report described in section 5514(e)(3) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 3362(e)(3)).
(e) The Task Force shall also consolidate any input received and submit periodic recommendations to the President on policies and regulatory actions to address systemic harms from PRC economic coercion.
Sec. 6
.
General Provisions.
(a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
(d) The Attorney General is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, December 12, 2024.
Memorandum of December 20, 2024

# Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961

# Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 621 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (FAA), I hereby delegate to the Secretary of State the authority under section 506(a)(3) of the FAA to direct the drawdown of up
to $571.3 million in defense articles and services of the Department of Defense, and military education and training, to provide assistance to Taiwan.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
Federal Register
.JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR.THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, December 20, 2024.
3 CFR Ch. I (1-1-2024 Edition)
Executive Office of the President

# CHAPTER I—EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Part
Page
100
Standards of conduct
568
101
Public information provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act
568
102
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Executive Office of the President
568
Pt. 100

# PART 100—STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301.

# Source:
64 FR 12881, Mar. 16, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 100.1
Ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.
Employees of the Executive Office of the President are subject to the executive branch-wide standards of ethical conduct at 5 CFR part 2635, and the executive branch-wide financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634.
Pt. 101

# PART 101—PUBLIC INFORMATION PROVISIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES ACT
Sec.
101.1
Executive Office of the President.
101.2
Office of Management and Budget.
101.4
National Security Council.
101.5
Council on Environmental Quality.
101.6
Office of National Drug Control Policy.
101.7
Office of Science and Technology Policy.
101.8
Office of the United States Trade Representative.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
40 FR 8061, Feb. 25, 1975; 55 FR 46067, Nov. 1, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 101.1
Executive Office of the President.
Until further regulations are promulgated, the remainder of the entities within the Executive Office of the President, to the extent that 5 U.S.C. 552 is applicable, shall follow the procedures set forth in the regulations applicable to the Office of Management and Budget (5 CFR Ch. III). Requests for information from these other entities should be submitted directly to such entity.
§ 101.2
Office of Management and Budget.
Freedom of Information regulations for the Office of Management and Budget appear at 5 CFR Ch. III.
§ 101.4
National Security Council.
Freedom of Information regulations for the National Security Council appear at 32 CFR Ch. XXI.
§ 101.5
Council on Environmental Quality.
Freedom of Information regulations for the Council on Environmental Quality appear at 40 CFR Ch. V.
[42 FR 65131, Dec. 30, 1977]
§ 101.6
Office of National Drug Control Policy.
Freedom of Information regulations for the Office of National Drug Control Policy appear at 21 CFR parts 1400-1499.
[55 FR 46037, Nov. 1, 1990]
§ 101.7
Office of Science and Technology Policy.
Freedom of Information regulations for the Office of Science and Technology Policy appear at 32 CFR part 2402.
[55 FR 46037, Nov. 1, 1990]
§ 101.8
Office of the United States Trade Representative.
Freedom of Information regulations for the Office of the United States Trade Representative appear at 15 CFR part 2004.
[55 FR 46037, Nov. 1, 1990]
Pt. 102

# PART 102—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Sec.
102.101
Purpose.
102.102
Application.
102.103
Definitions.
102.104-102.109
[Reserved]
102.110
Self-evaluation.
102.111
Notice.
102.112-102.129
[Reserved]
102.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
102.131-102.139
[Reserved]
102.140
Employment.
102.141-102.148
[Reserved]
102.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
102.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
102.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
102.152-102.159
[Reserved]
102.160
Communications.
102.161-102.169
[Reserved]
102.170
Compliance procedures.
102.171-102.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
53 FR 25879, July 8, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 102.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 102.102
Application.
This regulation (§§ 102.101-102.170) applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.
§ 102.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this regulation, the term—
Agency
means, for purposes of this regulation only, the following entities in the Executive Office of the President: the White House Office, the Office of the Vice President, the Office of Management and Budget, the Office of Policy Development, the National Security Council, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Council on Environmental Quality, the Council of Economic Advisers, the Office of Administration, the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, and any committee, board, commission, or similar group established in the Executive Office of the President.
Agency head
or
head of the agency
; as used in §§ 102.150(a)(3), 102.160(d) and 102.170 (i) and (j), shall be a three-member board which will include the Director, Office of Administration, the head of the Executive Office of the President, agency in which the issue needing resolution or decision arises and one other agency head selected by the two other board members. In the event that an issue needing resolution or decision arises within the Office of Administration, one of the board members shall be the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as
historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified individual with handicaps
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, an individual with handicaps who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency;
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4) “Qualified handicapped person” as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this regulation by § 102.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617); the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955); and the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-506, 100 Stat. 1810). As used in this regulation, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 102.104-102.109
[Reserved]
§ 102.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by September 6, 1989, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this regulation and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, for at least three years following completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 102.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this regulation and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 102.112-102.129
[Reserved]
§ 102.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards;
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of,
or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this regulation.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this regulation.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.
§§ 102.131-102.139
[Reserved]
§ 102.140
Employment.
No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subject to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 102.141-102.148
[Reserved]
§ 102.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 102.150, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 102.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 102.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result
in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 102.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with handicaps. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 102.150(a) (2) or (3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide individuals with handicaps into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by November 7, 1988, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by September 6, 1991, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by March 6, 1989, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 102.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 102.152-102.159
[Reserved]
§ 102.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 102.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 102.161-102.169
[Reserved]
§ 102.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Director, Facilities Management, Office of Administration, Executive Office of the President, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to the Director at the following address: Room 486, Old Executive Office Building, 17th and Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20500.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers
Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 102.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
§§ 102.171-102.999
[Reserved]
PARTS 103-199 [RESERVED]

# Title 3 Finding Aids
Table 1—Proclamations
Table 2—Executive Orders
Table 3—Other Presidential Documents
Table 4—Presidential Documents Affected During 2024
Table 5—Statutes Cited as Authority for Presidential Documents
List of CFR Sections Affected
Index
Title 3—The President
Table 1—Proclamations
Table 1—PROCLAMATIONS
No.
Signature Date
Subject
89 FR Page
2024
10696
Jan. 12
Martin Luther King, Jr., Federal Holiday, 2024
3533
10697
Jan. 12
Religious Freedom Day, 2024
3535
10698
Jan. 31
American Heart Month, 2024
7599
10699
Jan. 31
National Black History Month, 2024
7601
10700
Jan. 31
National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month, 2024
7603
10701
Feb. 6
National Tribal Colleges and Universities Week, 2024
9739
10702
Feb. 23
National Eating Disorders Awareness Week, 2024
14561
10703
Feb. 29
American Red Cross Month, 2024
15933
10704
Feb. 29
Irish-American Heritage Month, 2024
15935
10705
Feb. 29
National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, 2024
15937
10706
Feb. 29
Women's History Month, 2024
15939
10707
Mar. 1
National Consumer Protection Week, 2024
15949
10708
Mar. 1
Read Across America Day, 2024
15953
10709
Mar. 8
U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day, 2024
18339
10710
Mar. 11
National Equal Pay Day, 2024
18529
10711
Mar. 15
National Poison Prevention Week, 2024
19727
10712
Mar. 18
National Agriculture Day, 2024
20093
10713
Mar. 22
Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy, 2024
21177
10714
Mar. 29
Arab American Heritage Month, 2024
22879
10715
Mar. 29
Care Workers Recognition Month, 2024
22881
10716
Mar. 29
Month of the Military Child, 2024
22883
10717
Mar. 29
National Cancer Prevention and Early Detection Month, 2024
22885
10718
Mar. 29
National Child Abuse Prevention Month, 2024
22887
10719
Mar. 29
National Donate Life Month, 2024
22889
10720
Mar. 29
National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month, 2024
22891
10721
Mar. 29
Second Chance Month, 2024
22893
10722
Mar. 29
National Public Health Week, 2024
22895
10723
Mar. 29
César Chávez Day, 2024
22899
10724
Mar. 29
Transgender Day of Visibility, 2024
22901
10725
Apr. 1
World Autism Awareness Day, 2024
23497
10726
Apr. 8
National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day, 2024
25747
10727
Apr. 10
Black Maternal Health Week, 2024
26103
10728
Apr. 18
Education and Sharing Day, USA, 2024
30257
10729
Apr. 19
National Park Week, 2024
31605
10730
Apr. 19
National Crime Victims' Rights Week, 2024
31067
10731
Apr. 19
National Volunteer Week, 2024
31071
10732
Apr. 19
Earth Day, 2024
31073
10733
Apr. 26
National Small Business Week, 2024
34945
10734
Apr. 26
Workers Memorial Day, 2024
34949
10735
Apr. 30
Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, 2024
36651
10736
Apr. 30
Jewish American Heritage Month, 2024
36655
10737
Apr. 30
National Building Safety Month, 2024
36657
10738
Apr. 30
National Foster Care Month, 2024
36659
10739
Apr. 30
National Mental Health Awareness Month, 2024
36661
10740
Apr. 30
National Physical Fitness and Sports Month, 2024
36663
10741
Apr. 30
Older Americans Month, 2024
36665
10742
Apr. 30
Law Day, U.S.A., 2024
36667
10743
Apr. 30
Loyalty Day, 2024
36669
10744
May 1
National Day of Prayer, 2024
37059
10745
May 2
Boundary Enlargement of the Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument
39531
10746
May 2
Boundary Enlargement of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument
40361
10747
May 3
Days of Remembrance of the Victims of the Holocaust, 2024
41287
10748
May 3
National Hurricane Preparedness Week, 2024
41289
10749
May 3
Public Service Recognition Week, 2024
41291
10750
May 3
National Teacher Appreciation Day and National Teacher Appreciation Week, 2024
41293
10751
May 3
National Fallen Firefighters Memorial Weekend, 2024
41295
10752
May 3
Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day, 2024
41297
10753
May 9
Military Spouse Appreciation Day, 2024
41881
10754
May 10
National Defense Transportation Day and National Transportation Week, 2024
42329
10755
May 10
Peace Officers Memorial Day and Police Week, 2024
42333
10756
May 10
National Women's Health Week, 2024
42335
10757
May 10
Mother's Day, 2024
42339
10758
May 16
70th Anniversary of
Brown
v.
Board of Education
44545
10759
May 17
National Safe Boating Week, 2024
44901
10760
May 17
National Emergency Medical Services Week, 2024
44903
10761
May 17
World Trade Week, 2024
44905
10762
May 17
Armed Forces Day, 2024
44907
10763
May 17
National Hepatitis Testing Day, 2024
44909
10764
May 21
National Maritime Day, 2024
45749
10765
May 24
Prayer for Peace, Memorial Day, 2024
47065
10766
May 31
Black Music Month, 2024
48223
10767
May 31
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride Month, 2024
48225
10768
May 31
National Caribbean American Heritage Month, 2024
48227
10769
May 31
National Homeownership Month, 2024
48229
10770
May 31
National Ocean Month, 2024
48231
10771
May 31
Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States
48233
10772
May 31
Immigrant Heritage Month, 2024
48255
10773
June 3
Securing the Border
48487
10774
June 5
National Day of Remembrance of the 80th Anniversary of D-Day
49081
10775
June 7
Flag Day and National Flag Week, 2024
50203
10776
June 14
World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, 2024
51785
10777
June 14
Father's Day, 2024
51787
10778
June 18
Juneteenth Day of Observance, 2024
52997
10779
June 21
To Further Facilitate Positive Adjustment to Competition From Imports of Certain Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells (Whether or Not Partially or Fully Assembled Into Other Products)
53333
10780
June 26
Granting Pardon for Certain Violations of Article 125 Under the Uniform Code of Military Justice
54329
10781
July 1
60th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act
55883
10782
July 10
Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States
57339
10783
July 10
Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States
57347
10784
July 15
National Atomic Veterans Day, 2024
58619
10785
July 19
Captive Nations Week, 2024
59813
10786
July 19
Made in America Week, 2024
59815
10787
July 25
Anniversary of the Americans With Disabilities Act, 2024
61005
10788
July 25
National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day, 2024
61009
10789
Aug. 2
National Health Center Week, 2024
64779
10790
Aug. 12
To Further Facilitate Positive Adjustment to Competition From Imports of Certain Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells (Whether or Not Partially or Fully Assembled Into Other Products)
66181
10791
Aug. 16
National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week, 2024
67517
10792
Aug. 16
Establishment of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument
67821
10793
Aug. 23
Overdose Awareness Week, 2024
68769
10794
Aug. 23
Women's Equality Day, 2024
68773
10795
Aug. 30
National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, 2024
72279
10796
Aug. 30
National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, 2024
72283
10797
Aug. 30
National Preparedness Month, 2024
72285
10798
Aug. 30
National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, 2024
72287
10799
Aug. 30
National Recovery Month, 2024
72289
10800
Aug. 30
National Sickle Cell Awareness Month, 2024
72291
10801
Aug. 30
National Wilderness Month, 2024
72293
10802
Aug. 30
Labor Day, 2024
72295
10803
Sept. 5
National Days of Prayer and Remembrance, 2024
73249
10804
Sept. 6
National Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week, 2024
73555
10805
Sept. 6
National Grandparents Day, 2024
73557
10806
Sept. 9
World Suicide Prevention Day, 2024
74105
10807
Sept. 10
Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance, 2024
74829
10808
Sept. 12
30th Anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act
75945
10809
Sept. 13
National Hispanic Heritage Month, 2024
76389
10810
Sept. 13
National Farm Safety and Health Week, 2024
76391
10811
Sept. 13
National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week, 2024
76393
10812
Sept. 16
Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and Constitution Week, 2024
76709
10813
Sept. 16
National Voter Registration Day, 2024
76711
10814
Sept. 19
National POW/MIA Recognition Day, 2024
77765
10815
Sept. 19
National Service Dog Day, 2024
77767
10816
Sept. 20
Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Week, 2024
78199
10817
Sept. 27
Amending Proclamation 10773
80351
10818
Sept. 27
Gold Star Mother's and Family's Day, 2024
80355
10819
Sept. 27
National Hunting and Fishing Day, 2024
80357
10820
Sept. 27
National Public Lands Day, 2024
80359
10821
Sept. 30
National Arts and Humanities Month, 2024
80361
10822
Sept. 30
National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, 2024
80363
10823
Sept. 30
National Clean Energy Action Month, 2024
80365
10824
Sept. 30
National Cybersecurity Month, 2024
80367
10825
Sept. 30
National Disability Employment Awareness Month, 2024
80369
10826
Sept. 30
National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month, 2024
80371
10827
Sept. 30
National Youth Justice Action Month, 2024
80375
10828
Sept. 30
National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month, 2024
80377
10829
Oct. 3
National Manufacturing Day, 2024
81287
10830
Oct. 4
Fire Prevention Week, 2024
81815
10831
Oct. 4
National Community Policing Week, 2024
81817
10832
Oct. 4
German-American Day, 2024
81821
10833
Oct. 4
Child Health Day, 2024
81823
10834
Oct. 8
Leif Erikson Day, 2024
82925
10835
Oct. 10
General Pulaski Memorial Day, 2024
83411
10836
Oct. 10
International Day of the Girl, 2024
83413
10837
Oct. 11
National School Lunch Week, 2024
83601
10838
Oct. 11
Columbus Day, 2024
83603
10839
Oct. 11
Indigenous Peoples' Day, 2024
83605
10740
Oct. 11
Blind Americans Equality Day, 2024
83609
10841
Oct. 18
Minority Enterprise Development Week, 2024
84451
10842
Oct. 18
National Character Counts Week, 2024
84453
10843
Oct. 18
National Forest Products Week, 2024
84455
10844
Oct. 23
United Nations Day, 2024
85421
10845
Oct. 25
National First Responders Day, 2024
87259
10846
Oct. 31
Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month, 2024
87763
10847
Oct. 31
National Adoption Month, 2024
87765
10848
Oct. 31
National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month, 2024
87767
10849
Oct. 31
National Diabetes Month, 2024
87769
10850
Oct. 31
National Entrepreneurship Month, 2024
87771
10851
Oct. 31
National Family Caregivers Month, 2024
87773
10852
Oct. 31
National Lung Cancer Awareness Month, 2024
87775
10853
Oct. 31
National Native American Heritage Month, 2024
87777
10854
Oct. 31
National Veterans and Military Families Month, 2024
87781
10855
Nov. 6
Veterans Day, 2024
88871
10856
Nov. 8
World Freedom Day, 2024
89907
10857
Nov. 8
To Facilitate Positive Adjustment to Competition From Imports of Fine Denier Polyester Staple Fiber
89909, 92015
10858
Nov. 14
America Recycles Day, 2024
91523
10859
Nov. 15
American Education Week, 2024
91525
10860
Nov. 15
National Apprenticeship Week, 2024
91527
10861
Nov. 17
International Conservation Day, 2024
93141
10862
Nov. 19
National Child's Day, 2024
93461
10863
Nov. 20
National Rural Health Day, 2024
94595
10864
Nov. 22
National Family Week, 2024
95077
10865
Nov. 27
Thanksgiving Day, 2024
96087
10866
Nov. 29
National Impaired Driving Prevention Month, 2024
96513
10867
Nov. 29
World AIDS Day, 2024
96515
10868
Dec. 3
International Day of Persons With Disabilities, 2024
96855
10869
Dec. 6
National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, 2024
99693
10870
Dec. 9
Establishment of the Carlisle Federal Indian Boarding School National Monument
100289
10871
Dec. 9
Human Rights Day and Human Rights Week, 2024
100299
10872
Dec. 13
Bill of Rights Day, 2024
102673
10873
Dec. 16
Establishment of the Frances Perkins National Monument
103617
10874
Dec. 16
Wright Brothers Day, 2024
103625
10875
Dec. 20
To Implement the United States-Israel Agreement on Trade in Agricultural Products and for Other Purposes
105333
No.
Signature Date
Subject
90 FR Page
2024
10876
Dec. 29
Announcing the Death of James Earl Carter, Jr.
185
10877
Dec. 30
National Human Trafficking Prevention Month, 2025
529
10878
Dec. 31
National Mentoring Month, 2025
1025
10879
Dec. 31
National Stalking Awareness Month, 2025
1027
Title 3—The President
Table 2—Executive Orders
Table 2—EXECUTIVE ORDERS
No.
Signature Date
Subject
89 FR Page
2024
14115
Feb. 1
Imposing Certain Sanctions on Persons Undermining Peace, Security, and Stability in the West Bank
7605
14116
Feb. 21
Amending Regulations Relating to the Safeguarding of Vessels, Harbors, Ports, and Waterfront Facilities of the United States
13971
14117
Feb. 28
Preventing Access to Americans' Bulk Sensitive Personal Data and United States Government-Related Data by Countries of Concern
15421
14118
Mar. 4
Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Situation in Zimbabwe
15945
14119
Mar. 6
Scaling and Expanding the Use of Registered Apprenticeships in Industries and the Federal Government and Promoting Labor-Management Forums
17265
14120
Mar. 18
Advancing Women's Health Research and Innovation
20095
14121
Mar. 27
Recognizing and Honoring Women's History
22327
14122
Apr. 12
COVID-19 and Public Health Preparedness and Response
27355
14123
June 14
White House Council on Supply Chain Resilience
51949
14124
July 17
White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions
59585
14125
July 24
Establishing an Emergency Board To Investigate a Dispute Between New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and Its Locomotive Engineers Represented by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen
60791
14126
Sept. 6
Investing in America and Investing in American Workers
73559
14127
Sept. 26
White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions
80345
14128
Nov. 21
Establishing a Second Emergency Board To Investigate a Dispute Between New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and Its Locomotive Engineers Represented by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen
93145
14129
Dec. 18
Providing for the Closing of Executive Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government on December 24, 2024
104857
14130
Dec. 20
2024 Amendments to the Manual for Courts Martial, United States
105343
14131
Dec. 20
Amendments to Executive Orders Relating to Certain Certificates and Badges
105377
14132
Dec. 23
Adjustments of Certain Rates of Pay
106963
No.
Signature Date
Subject
90 FR Page
2024
14133
Dec. 30
Providing for the Closing of Executive Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government on January 9, 2025
187
Title 3—The President
Table 3—Other Presidential Documents
Table 3—OTHER PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS
Signature Date
Subject
89 FR Page
2024
Feb. 7
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in and in Relation to Burma
8989
Feb. 7
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Widespread Humanitarian Crisis in Afghanistan and the Potential for a Deepening Economic Collapse in Afghanistan
8991
Feb. 8
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 1(j)(4) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956
14367
Feb. 14
Memorandum: Deferred Enforced Departure for Certain Palestinians
12743
Feb. 16
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 1230 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024
13261
Feb. 21
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Cuba and of the Emergency Authority Relating to the Regulation of the Anchorage and Movement of Vessels
13967
Feb. 21
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Libya
13969
Mar. 4
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Ukraine
15947
Mar. 5
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Venezuela
16443
Mar. 11
Order: Sequestration Order for Fiscal Year 2025 Pursuant to Section 251A of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act, as Amended
18531
Mar. 12
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Iran
18527
Mar. 12
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
22325
Mar. 26
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled Activities
21427
Mar. 26
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to South Sudan
21429
Mar. 26
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
24679
Apr. 9
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Somalia
25493
Apr. 9
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Specified Harmful Foreign Activities of the Government of the Russian Federation
25495
Apr. 12
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
34071
Apr. 16
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency and of the Emergency Authority Relating to the Regulation of the Anchorage and Movement of Russian-Affiliated Vessels to United States Ports
27649
Apr. 24
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
40359
May 8
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Securing the Information and Communications Technology and Services Supply Chain
40353
May 8
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Actions of the Government of Syria
40355
May 8
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Central African Republic
40357
May 8
Presidential Determination No. 2024-04: Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012
46015
May 10
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
46017
May 13
Order: Regarding the Acquisition of Certain Real Property of Cheyenne Leads by MineOne Cloud Computing Investment I L.P.
43301
May 14
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Yemen
42765
May 14
Memorandum: Actions by the United States Related to the Statutory 4-Year Review of the Section 301 Investigation of China's Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation
44541
May 20
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Stabilization of Iraq
44899
May 24
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
50499
May 31
Presidential Permit: Authorizing Cameron County, Texas, To Construct, Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing Near Brownsville, Texas, at the International Boundary Between the United States and Mexico
48243
May 31
Presidential Permit: Authorizing Maverick County, Texas, To Construct, Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular, Pedestrian, and Rail Border Crossing Near Eagle Pass, Texas, at the International Boundary Between the United States and Mexico
48247
May 31
Presidential Permit: Authorizing the City of Laredo, Texas, To Expand and Continue To Maintain and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing at the World Trade Bridge Land Port of Entry
48251
June 7
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
57049
June 13
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Belarus
51197
June 13
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to North Korea
51199
June 13
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Western Balkans
51201
June 21
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 1247 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024
57051
June 21
Memorandum: Establishment of the Economic Diplomacy Action Group and Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities Under the Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act of 2019
57053
June 24
Presidential Determination No. 2024-05: Designation of Kenya as a Major Non-NATO Ally
57055
June 28
Memorandum: Extending Eligibility for Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians
55017
June 28
Presidential Determination No. 2024-06: Presidential Determination and Certification With Respect to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008
57057
July 3
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
64343
July 9
Memorandum: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Sections 1333, 1342, 1352, and 1353 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024
57337
July 10
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Hong Kong
57047
July 11
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
64347
July 16
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Hostage-Taking and the Wrongful Detention of United States Nationals Abroad
58613
July 16
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Mali58615
58615
July 16
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Transnational Criminal Organizations
58617
July 19
Memorandum: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under the Protecting American Intellectual Property Act of 2022
64345
July 19
Memorandum: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Section 9902(a)(3)(B) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
59817
July 22
Memorandum: Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities Under the Rebuilding Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for Ukrainians Act
60287
July 24
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under the Protecting Americans From Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act
60793
July 26
Memorandum: Deferred Enforced Departure for Certain Lebanese Nationals
61341
July 26
Presidential Determination No. 2024-08: Agreement for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Singapore Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy
64351
July 29
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Lebanon
62651
July 29
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
64349
Aug. 5
Memorandum: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Section 6(a)-(c) of the United States-Taiwan Initiative on 21st-Century Trade First Agreement Implementation Act
64781
Aug. 6
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Advancement by Countries of Concern in Sensitive Technologies and Products Critical for the Military, Intelligence, Surveillance, or Cyber-Enabled Capabilities of Such Countries
65163
Aug. 9
Presidential Determination No. 2024-10: Continuation of U.S. Drug Interdiction Assistance to the Government of Colombia
71797
Aug. 9
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
71795
Aug. 13
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Export Control Regulations
66187
Aug. 16
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority To Designate an Existing Official To Serve Within the Executive Branch as the Coordinator for Detained ISIS Members and Relevant Displaced Populations in Syria
71799
Aug. 23
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
71801
Sept. 6
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Ethiopia
73251
Sept. 6
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
77753
Sept. 9
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Certain Terrorist Attacks
74101
Sept. 9
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Foreign Interference in or Undermining Public Confidence in United States Elections
74103
Sept. 13
Presidential Determination No. 2024-11: Continuation of the Exercise of Certain Authorities Under the Trading With the Enemy Act
76397
Sept. 13
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 7019(e) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2024
77755
Sept. 13
Memorandum: Delegation of Certain Sanctions-Related Authorities Under Public Law 118-50
77757
Sept. 15
Presidential Determination No. 2024-12: Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit or Major Illicit Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year 2025
77761
Sept. 18
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Persons Who Commit, Threaten To Commit, or Support Terrorism
77011
Sept. 25
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
83761
Sept. 26
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
83763
Sept. 29
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
83765
Sept. 30
Presidential Determination No. 2024-13: Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2025
83767
Sept. 30
Presidential Determination No. 2024-14: Presidential Determination With Respect to the Efforts of Foreign Governments Regarding Trafficking in Persons
83769
Sept. 30
Presidential Determination No. 2024-15: Presidential Determination and Certification With Respect to the Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008
83773
Oct. 3
Presidential Permit: Authorizing Southwebb Bridge Company LLC To Construct, Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing Near Laredo, Texas, at the International Boundary Between the United States and Mexico
81289
Oct. 10
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in and in Relation to Syria
82929
Oct. 11
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Narcotics Traffickers Centered in Colombia
83417
Oct. 11
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Democratic Republic of the Congo
83419
Oct. 16
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
47461
Oct. 21
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
87463
Oct. 25
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Sudan
85849
Nov. 1
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Iran
87761
Nov. 1
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
92023
Nov. 7
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction
88867
Nov. 7
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Certain Companies of the People's Republic of China
88869
Nov. 15
Memorandum: Delegation of Authorities Under Sections 507(d) and 508(a) of the Ukraine Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024
99689
Nov. 20
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
99691
Nov. 22
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in Nicaragua
93459
Dec, 11
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to Serious Human Rights Abuse and Corruption
100717
Dec. 11
Notice: Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Global Illicit Drug Trade
100719
Dec. 11
Memorandum: Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Sections 1352 and 1353 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024
101835
Dec. 12
Memorandum: Establishment of the China Censorship Monitor and Action Group
102665
Dec. 12
Memorandum: Establishment of the Countering Economic Coercion Task Force
102669
Signature Date
Subject
90 FR Page
2024
Dec. 20
Memorandum: Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
1023
Title 3—The President
Table 4—Presidential Documents Affected
Table 4—PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS AFFECTED DURING 2024

# Editorial note:
The following abbreviations are used in this table:
EO
Executive Order
FR
Federal Register
PLO
Public Land Order (43 CFR, Appendix to Chapter II)
Proc.
Proclamation
Pub. L.
Public Law
Stat.
U.S. Statutes at Large
DCPD
Daily Compilation of Presidential Documents

# Proclamations
Date or NumberComment
6763
See
Proc. 10875
6867
See
Notice of Feb. 21, p. 471
7463
See
Notice of Sept. 9, p. 530
7757
See
Notice of Feb. 21, p. 471
7826
See
Proc. 10875
7987
See
Proc. 10875
8271
See
Notice of June 13, p. 505
8334
See
Proc. 10875
8467
See
Proc. 10875
8618
See
Proc. 10875
8770
See
Proc. 10875
8771
See
Proc. 10875
8921
See
Proc. 10875
9072
See
Proc. 10875
9194
See
Proc. 10746
9223
See
Proc. 10875
9298
See
Proc. 10745
9383
See
Proc. 10875
9398
See
Notice of Feb. 21, p. 471
9466
See
Proc. 10875
9549
See
Proc. 10875
9555
See
Proc. 10875
9687
See
Proc. 10875
9693
See
Procs. 10779, 10790
9699
See
Notice of Feb. 21, p. 471
9704
See
Proc. 10782
9705
Revised by Proc. 10771;
See
Proc. 10783, 10875
9711
See
Procs. 10771, 10783, 10875
9740
See
Proc. 10875
9759
See
Proc. 10875
9834
See
Proc. 10875
9893
See
Proc. 10782
9894
See
Proc. 10783
9974
See
Proc. 10875
9980
See
Procs. 10782, 10783
10053
See
Proc. 10875
10101
See
Procs. 10779, 10790
10128
See
Proc. 10875
10326
See
Proc. 10875
10328
See
Proc. 10875
10339
See
Procs. 10779, 10790
10371
See
Notice of Apr. 16, p. 481
10356
See
Proc. 10875
10403
See
Proc. 10771
10406
See
Proc. 10875
10509
See
Proc. 10875
10522
See
Proc. 10782
10585
Superseded by Proc. 10762
10588
See
Proc. 10771
10691
See
Proc. 10875
10692
See
Proc. 10875
10773
Amended and partially revoked by Proc. 10817

# Executive Orders
Date or NumberComment
10173
See
EO 14116
11246
See
EO 14126
11582
See
EOs 14129, 14133
11926
Amended by EO 14131
12170
See
Notices of Mar. 12, p. 475; Nov. 1, p. 552
12473
See
EO 14130
12793
Amended by EO 14131
12938
See
Notice of Nov. 7, p. 553
12957
See
Notice of Mar. 12, p. 475
12978
See
Notice of Oct. 11, p. 549
13067
Continued by Notice of Oct. 25, p. 551
13094
See
Notice of Nov. 7, p. 553
13222
See
Notice of Aug. 13, p. 527
13224
See
Notice of Sept. 18, p. 538
13286
See
EO 14131
13288
Terminated and Revoked by EO 14118
13219
See
Notice of June 13, p. 507
13290
See
Notice of May 20, p. 493
13303
See
Notice of May 20, p. 493
13304
See
Notice of June 13, p. 507
13315
See
Notice of May 20, p. 493
13338
See
Notice of May 8, p. 483
13350
See
Notice of May 20, p. 493
13364
See
Notice of May 20, p. 493
13373
See
EO 14131
13382
See
Notice of Nov. 7, p. 553
13391
Revoked by EO 14118
13399
See
Notice of May 8, p. 483
13400
See
Notice of Oct. 25, p. 551
13405
See
Notice of June 13, p. 504
13412
See
Notice of Oct. 25, p. 551
13413
See
Notice of Oct. 11, p. 549
13438
See
Notice of May 20, p. 493
13441
See
Notice of July 29, p. 523
13460
See
Notice of May 8, p. 483
13466
See
Notice of June 13, p. 505
13469
Revoked by EO 14118
13522
Superseded by EO 14119
13536
Continued by Notice of Apr. 9, p. 478
13551
See
Notice of June 13, p. 505
13566
See
Notice of Feb. 21, p. 472
13570
See
Notice of June 13, p. 505
13572
See
Notice of May 8, p. 483
13573
See
Notice of May 8, p. 483
13581
See
Notice of July 16, p. 517
13582
See
Notice of May 8, p. 483
13606
See
Notice of May 8, p. 483
13608
See
Notice of May 8, p. 483
13611
See
Notice of May 14, p. 490
13620
Continued by Notice of Apr. 9, p. 478
13637
See
Notice of Aug. 13, p. 527
13660
See
Notice of Mar. 4, p. 473
13661
See
Notice of Mar. 4, p. 473
13662
See
Notice of Mar. 4, p. 473
13667
See
Notice of May 8, p. 484
13668
See
Notice of May 20, p. 493
13671
See
Notice of Oct. 11, p. 549
13685
See
Notice of Mar. 4, p. 473
13687
See
Notice of June 13, p. 505
13692
See
Notice of Mar. 5, p. 474
13694
See
EO 14117; Notice of Mar. 26, p. 477
13722
See
Notice of June 13, p. 505
13726
See
Notice of Feb. 21, p. 472
13757
See
Notice of Mar. 26, p. 477
13761
See
Notice of Oct. 25, p. 551
13804
See
Notice of Oct. 25, p. 551
13808
See
Notice of Mar. 5, p. 474
13810
See
Notice of June 13, p. 505
13812
Revoked by EO 14119
13818
See
Notice of Dec. 11, p. 558
13827
See
Notice of Mar. 5, p. 474
13835
See
Notice of Mar. 5, p. 474
13848
See
Notice of Sept. 9, p. 530
13849
See
Notice of Mar. 4, p. 473
13850
See
Notice of Mar. 5, p. 474
13851
See
Notice of Nov. 22, p. 557
13857
See
Notice of Mar. 5, p. 474
13863
See
Notice of July 16, p. 517
13873
Amended by EO 14117;
See
Notice of May 8, p. 482
13882
See
Notice of July 16, p. 516
13884
See
Notice of Mar. 5, p. 474
13886
See
Notice of Sept. 18, p. 538
13894
See
Notice of Oct. 10, p. 548
13910
Revoked by EO 14122
13913
See
EO 14117
13936
See
Notice of July 10, p. 514
13959
See
Notice of Nov. 7, p. 554
13974
See
Notice of Nov. 7, p. 554
13985
See
EO 14121
13987
See
EO 14122
13991
Revoked by EO 14122
13994
See
EO 14122
13996
See
EO 14122
13998
Revoked by EO 14122
14008
See
EO 14126
14014
See
Notice of Feb. 7, p. 467
14017
See
EO 14123
14020
See
EOs 14121, 14126
14024
See
Notice of Apr. 9, p. 479
14032
See
Notice of Nov. 7, p. 554
14033
See
Notice of June 13, p. 507
14034
Amended by EO 14117
14035
See
EO 14119
14038
See
Notice of June 13, p. 504
14039
See
Notice of Apr. 9, p. 479
14045
See
EO 14124
14046
See
Notice of Sept. 6, p. 529
14059
See
Notice of Dec. 11, p. 558
14064
See
Notice of Feb. 7, p. 468
14065
See
Notice of Mar. 4, p. 473
14066
See
Notice of Apr. 9, p. 479
14068
See
Notice of Apr. 9, p. 479
14071
See
Notice of Apr. 9, p. 479
14078
See
Notice of July 16, p. 515
14088
See
Notice of Nov. 22, p. 557
14091
See
EOs 14121, 14126
14098
See
Notice of Oct. 25, p. 551
14100
See
Proc. 10855
14105
See
Notice of Aug. 6, p. 525
14110
See
EO 14120
14113
Superseded by EO 14132
14114
See
Notice of Apr. 9, p. 479
14125
See
EO 14128
Title 3—The President
Table 5—Statutes Cited As Authority
Table 5—STATUTES CITED AS AUTHORITY FOR PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS

# Editorial note:
Statutes which were cited as authority for the issuance of Presidential documents contained in this volume are listed under one of these headings. For authority cites for hortatory proclamations, see the text of each proclamation:
United States Code
United States Statutes at Large
Public Laws
Short Title of Act
Citations have been set forth in the style in which they appear in the documents. Since the form of citations varies from document to document, users of this table should search under all headings for pertinent references.
United States Code
U.S. Code Citation
Presidential Document
2 U.S.C. 901a
Order of Mar. 11, p. 475
2 U.S.C. 4501
EO 14132
3 U.S.C. 104
EO 14132
3 U.S.C. 301
EOs 14115, 14117, 14118; Procs. 10771, 10773, 10782, 10783; Memorandums of Feb. 8, p. 469; Feb. 16, p. 470; June 21, p. 508; June 21, p. 509; July 9, p. 513; July 19, p. 518; July 22, p. 519; July 24, p. 520; Aug. 5, p. 524; Aug. 16, p. 527; Sept. 13, p. 531; Sept. 13, p. 532; Nov. 15, p. 556; Dec. 11, p. 559
5 U.S.C. 5302(1)
EO 14132
5 U.S.C. 5304
EO 14132
5 U.S.C. 5311-5318
EO 14132
5 U.S.C. 5332(a)
EO 14132
5 U.S.C. 5372
EO 14132
5 U.S.C. 5546 and 6103(b)
EOs 14129, 14133
5 U.S.C. 5701-5707
EO 14124
5 U.S.C. 7106(b)(1)
EO 14119
6 U.S.C. 279(g)(2)
Proc. 10773
6 U.S.C. 301a, 301b
Permits of May 31, p. 494; May 31, p. 497; May 31, p. 501; Oct. 3, p. 545
8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(42)
Presidential Determination No. 2024-13, p. 541
8 U.S.C. 1157
Presidential Determination No. 2024-13, p. 541
8 U.S.C. 1158(b)
Memorandums of Feb. 14, p. 469; July 26, p. 521
8 U.S.C. 1182(a)
Memorandums of Feb. 14, p. 469; July 26, p. 521
8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)
EO 14115; Proc. 10773
8 U.S.C. 1187
Proc. 10773
8 U.S.C. 1227(a)
Memorandums of Feb. 14, p. 469; July 26, p. 521
8 U.S.C. 1232
Proc. 10773
8 U.S.C. 1254a(C)
Memorandum of June 28, p. 510
10 U.S.C. 331
Presidential Determination No. 2024-15, p. 544
10 U.S.C. 333
Presidential Determination No. 2024-15, p. 544
10 U.S.C. 925
Proc. 10780
10 U.S.C. 801-946a
EO 14130
10 U.S.C. 825(e)(4)
EO 14130
10 U.S.C. 880, 881, 882
Proc. 10780
19 U.S.C. 1484(f)
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 1862
Procs. 10782, 10783, 10875
19 U.S.C. 2112 note
Procs. 10857, 10875
19 U.S.C. 2253
Procs. 10790, 10857
19 U.S.C. 2254
Proc. 10790
19 U.S.C. 2466a note
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 2483
Procs. 10782, 10783,10857, 10875
19 U.S.C. 2702(a), 2703(b)
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 2703(e)
Proc. 10857
19 U.S.C. 2902(a) and (e)
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 3511(a)
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 3721, 3722(b)
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 3805 note
Proc. 10857
19 U.S.C. 4001
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 4101(b)
Proc. 10857
19 U.S.C. 4513
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 4513
Proc. 10875
19 U.S.C. 4552
Proc. 10857
22 U.S.C. 2291-4
Presidential Determination No. 2024-10, p. 526
22 U.S.C. 2321k
Presidential Determination No. 2024-05, p. 510
22 U.S.C. 2370c-1
Presidential Determination Nos. 2024-06, p. 512; 2024-15, p. 544
22 U.S.C. 2601(b)(2)
Presidential Determination No. 2024-13, p. 541
22 U.S.C. 2651(a)
Memorandum of Feb. 8, p. 469
22 U.S.C. 2751
Presidential Determination No. 2024-05, p. 510
22 U.S.C. 3362
Memorandum of Dec. 12, p. 562
22 U.S.C. 3363
Memorandum of Dec. 12, p. 560
22 U.S.C. 3963
EO 14132
22 U.S.C. 7102(16)
Proc. 10773
22 U.S.C. 7107
Presidential Determination No. 2024-14, p. 542
28 U.S.C. 5, 44(d), 135, 252, and 461(a)
EO 14132
29 U.S.C. 3102(67)
EO 14126
31 U.S.C. 1535
EO 14124
33 U.S.C. 535d
Permits of May 31, p. 494; May 31, p. 497; May 31, p. 501; Oct. 3, p. 545
33 U.S.C. 1342
Permits of May 31, p. 494; May 31, p. 497; May 31, p. 501; Oct. 3, p. 545
37 U.S.C. 203(a)
EO 14132
37 U.S.C. 1009
EO 14132
38 U.S.C. 7306, 7401, 7404
EO 14132
42 U.S.C. 2153
Presidential Determination No. 2024-08, p. 522
45 U.S.C. 151-188
EO 14125.
45 U.S.C. 159a
EOs 14125, 14128
46 U.S.C. 70051
EO 14116; Notice of Apr. 16, p. 481
50 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
EOs 14115, 14117, 14118; Notice of Apr. 16, p. 481
50 U.S.C. 1622(a)
EO 14118
50 U.S.C. 1622(d)
Notices of Feb. 7, p. 467; Feb. 7, p. 468; Feb. 21, p. 471; Feb. 21, p. 472; Mar. 4, p. 473; Mar. 5, p. 474; Mar. 12, p. 475; Mar. 26, p. 477; Apr. 9, p. 478; Apr. 9, p. 479; Apr. 16, p. 481; May 8, p. 482; May 8, p. 483; May 8, p. 484; May 14, p. 490; May 20, p. 493; June 13, p. 504; June 13, p. 505; June 13, p. 507; July 10, p. 514; July 16, p. 515; July 16, p. 516; July 16, p. 517; July 29, p. 523; Aug. 6, p. 525; Aug. 13, p. 527; Sept. 6, p. 529; Sept. 9, p. 530; Sept. 9, p. 530; Sept. 18, p. 538; Oct. 10, p. 548; Oct. 11, p. 549; Oct. 11, p. 549; Nov. 1, p. 552; Nov. 7, p. 553; Nov. 7, p. 554; Nov. 22, p. 557; Dec. 11, p. 558; Dec. 11, p. 558
50 U.S.C. 1641(c)
EO 14117
50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
EO 14115, 14117; Notices of Feb. 7, p. 467; Apr. 9, p. 479; July 16, p. 515; Aug. 6, p. 525; Sept. 6, p. 529; Oct. 25, p. 551; Nov. 22, p. 552; Dec. 11, p. 558
50 U.S.C. 1701-1706
Notice of Feb. 7, p. 472
50 U.S.C. 1703(c)
EO 14117
50 U.S.C. 1709
Memorandum of July 19, p. 518
50 U.S.C. 4305 note
Presidential Determination No. 2024-11, p. 531
50 U.S.C. 4565
Order of May 13, p. 486
50 U.S.C. 4801 note
Notice of Aug. 13, p. 527
54 U.S.C. 100102
EO 14121
54 U.S.C. 320301
EO 14121; Procs. 10745, 10746, 10792, 10870, 10873
Public Laws
Law Number
Presidential Document
65-24, ch. 30 (Title II)
Notice of Apr. 16, p. 481
87-195
Presidential Determination No. 2024-12, p. 535
87-794
Proc. 10875
92-540
EO 14126
93-112
EO 14126
95-223
Presidential Determination No. 2024-11, p. 531
98-67 (Title II)
Proc. 10875
99-47
Proc. 10875
100-48
Proc. 10875
102-40
EO 14132
103-182
Proc. 10875
103-465
Proc. 10875
106-200 (Title I)
Proc. 10875
107-228
Presidential Determination No. 2024-12, p. 535
109-53
Proc. 10875
109-432 (Title VI)
Proc. 10875
110-234 (Subtitle D)
Proc. 10875
112-81
Presidential Determination Nos. 2024-04, p. 484; 2025-01, p. 556
113-66
Proc. 10780
113-76
Presidential Permits of May 31, p. 494; May 31, p. 497; May 31, p. 501; Oct. 3, p. 545
114-27
Proc. 10875
116-92
Memorandums of June 28, p. 510; Aug. 16, p. 527
116-94 (Title VII, Division J)
Memorandum of June 21, p. 509
116-113
Proc. 10875
116-260
Proc. 10875
116-283
Memorandum of July 19, p. 518
117-159
EO 14127
117-263
Presidential Determination No. 2024-12, p. 535
117-328
EO 14122
117-336
Memorandum of July 19, p. 518
118-13
Memorandum of Aug. 5, p. 524
118-31
Memorandums of Feb. 16, p. 470; June 21, p. 508; July 9, p. 513; Aug. 16, p. 527; Dec. 11, p. 559
118-47 (Title VII, Division F)
Memorandum of Sept. 13, p. 531
118-50 (Division F)
Memorandum of July 22, p. 519
118-50 (Division B)
Memorandum of Nov. 15, p. 556
118-50 (Division H)
Memorandum of July 24, p. 520
118-50 (Division K, L, M, N, O, P, and R)
Memorandum of Sept. 13, p. 532
Short Title of Act
Title
Presidential Document
Arms Export Control Act
Presidential Determination No. 2024-05, p. 510
Atomic Energy Act of 1954
Presidential Determination No. 2024-08, p. 522
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
Order of Mar. 11, p. 475
Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act of 2019
Memorandum of June 21, p. 509
Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008
Presidential Determination No. 2024-06, p. 512
Defense Production Act of 1950
Order of May 13, p. 486
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2024
Memorandum of Sept. 13, p. 531
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
Memorandums of Mar. 12, p. 476; Mar. 26, p. 478; Apr. 12, p. 480; Apr. 24, p. 481; May 10, p. 485; May 24, p. 494; June 7, p. 504; July 3, p. 513; July 11, p. 515; July 29, p. 523; Aug. 9, p. 526; Aug. 23, p. 528; Sept. 6, p. 529, Sept. 25, p. 539; Sept. 26, p. 540; Sept. 29, p. 540; Oct. 16, p. 550; Oct. 21, p. 551; Nov. 1, p. 553; Nov. 20, p. 557; Presidential Determination Nos. 2024-05, p. 510; 2024-12, p. 535
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, FY 2003
Presidential Determination No. 2024-12, p. 535
James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2023
EO 14130; Presidential Determination No. 2024-12, p. 535; Memorandums of Dec. 12, p. 560; Dec. 12, p. 562
National Defense Authorization Act for FY 1995
Presidential Determination No. 2024-10, p. 526
National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2012
Presidential Determination Nos. 2024-04, p. 484; 2025-01, p. 556
National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2024
Memorandums of June 21, p. 508; July 9, p. 513; Dec. 11, p. 559
Protecting American Intellectual Property Act of 2022
Memorandum of July 19, p. 518
Protecting Americans From Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act
Memorandum of July 24, p. 520
Rebuilding Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for Ukrainians Act
Memorandum of July 22, p. 519
Trade Act of 1974
Memorandum of May 14, p. 491; Procs. 10771, 10779, 10782, 10783, 10790
Trade Expansion Act of 1962
Procs. 10771, 10782, 10783
U.S-Taiwan Initiative on 21st-Century Trade First Agreement Implementation Act
64781
William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
Memorandum of July 19, p. 518
Title 3—The President
List of Sections Affected

# LIST OF CFR SECTIONS AFFECTED

# Editorial note:
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations which were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2001, are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters and parts as well as sections for revisions.For the period before January 1, 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000,” published in 11 separate volumes.Presidential documents affected during 2024 are set forth in Table 4 on page 593.
2016-2024
3 CFR
(No regulations issued)
Title 3—The President
Index

# Index
AAdvancement by Countries of Concern in Sensitive Technologies and Products Critical for the Military, Intelligence, Surveillance, or Cyber-Enabled Capabilities of Such Countries; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of August 6, p. 525)Afghanistan; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of February 7, p. 468)Aluminum Imports Into U.S.; Adjustments (Proc. 10782)
BBalanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act; Sequestration Order for Fiscal Year 2025 Pursuant to Section 251A (Order of March 11, p. 475)Belarus; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of June 13, p. 504)Berryessa Snow Mountain National Monument; Boundary Enlargement (Proc. 10745)Border Security; U.S. Efforts To Secure (Proc. 10773)Bulk Sensitive Personal Consumer Data and U.S. Government-Related Data; Preventing Access by Countries of Concern (EO 14117)Burma; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of February 7, p. 467)
CCameron County, TX; Authorization To Construct, Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing Near Brownsville, TX, at U.S.-Mexico Border (Presidential Permit of May 31, p. 494)Carlisle Federal Indian Boarding School National Monument; Establishment (Proc. 10870)Central African Republic; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of May 8, p. 484)Certain Rates of Pay; Adjustments (EO 14132)Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act of 2019; Establishment of Economic Diplomacy Action Group and Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities (Memorandum of June 21, p. 509)Cheyenne Leads; Acquisition of Real Property by MineOne Cloud Computing Investment I L.P. (Order of May 13, p. 486)Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008; Presidential Determination and Certification (Presidential Determination No. 2024-06 of June 28, p. 512)Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008; Presidential Determination and Certification (Presidential Determination No. 2024-15 of September 30, p. 544)China Censorship Monitor and Action Group; Establishment (Memorandum of December 12, p. 560)China's Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation; Actions by U.S. Related to the Statutory 4-Year Review of the Section 301 Investigation (Memorandum of May 14, p. 491)China, Securities Investments Financing Certain Companies; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of November 7, p. 554)Coast Guard; Amending Regulations Relating to the Safeguarding of U.S. Vessels, Harbors, Ports, and Waterfront Facilities (EO 14116)Colombia; Continuation of National Emergency With Respect to Significant Narcotics Traffickers (Notice of October 11, p. 549)
Colombia; Continuation of U.S. Drug Interdiction Assistance (Presidential Determination 2024-10 of August 9, p. 526)Combating Emerging Firearms Threats and Improving School-Based Active-Shooter Drills (EO 14127)Committees; Establishment, Renewal, Termination, etc.:
Emergency Board To Investigate Dispute Between New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and Its Locomotive Engineers Represented by the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen; Establishment (EO 14125)
Labor Dispute Between New Jersey Transit Rail Operations and Locomotive Engineers Represented by Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen, Second Emergency Board To Investigate; Establishment (EO 14128)
White House Council on Supply Chain Resilience (EO 14123)Congo, Democratic Republic of the; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of October 11, p. 549)Countering Economic Coercion Task Force; Establishment (Memorandum of December 12, p. 562)COVID-19 and Public Health; Preparedness and Response Efforts (EO 14122)Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells (Whether or Not Partially or Fully Assembled Into Other Products); Facilitation of a Positive Adjustment to Import Competition (Proc. 10790)Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells (Whether or Not Partially or Fully Assembled Into Other Products); Positive Adjustments to Competition From Certain U.S. Imports (Proc. 10779)Cuba; Continuation of National Emergency Respecting Emergency Authority Regarding Regulation of Anchorage and Movement of Vessels (Notice of February 21, p. 471)Cyber-Enabled Activities; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of March 26, p. 477)
DDepartment of State Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2024; Delegation of Authority Under Section 7019(e) (Memorandum of September 13, p. 531)
EEducation:
White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions (EO 14124)Ethiopia; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of September 6, p. 529)Executive Orders Relating to Certain Certificates and Badges; Amendments (EO 14131)Export Control Regulations; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of August 13, p. 527)
FFederal Government:
Executive Departments and Agencies; Closure on December 24, 2024 (EO 14129)
Executive Departments and Agencies; Closure on January 9, 2025 (EO 14133)
Workforce Development; Investing in America and in American Workers (EO 14126)Fine Denier Polyester Staple Fiber; Positive Adjustments to Competition From Imports Into U.S. (Proc. 10857)Fine Denier Polyester Staple Fiber; Positive Adjustments to Competition From Imports Into U.S. (Proc. 10857), RepublicationForeign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506 (a)(1) (Memorandum of June 7, p. 504)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) (Memorandum of August 23, p. 528)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) (Memorandum of August 9, p. 526)
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) (Memorandum of July 11, p. 515)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) (Memorandum of July 3, p. 513)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) (Memorandum of May 10, p. 485)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) (Memorandum of September 26, p. 540)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) (Memorandum of September 6, p. 529)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(3) (Memorandum of December 20, p. 564)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of July 29, p. 523)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of May 24, p. 494)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(1) and 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of September 25, p. 539)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(2) (Memorandum of April 12, p. 480)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(2) (Memorandum of March 26, p. 478)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 506(a)(3) (Memorandum of September 29, p. 540)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of April 24, p. 481)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of March 12, p. 476)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of November 1, p. 553)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of November 20, p. 557)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of October 16, p. 550)Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; Delegation of Authority Under Section 614(a)(1) (Memorandum of October 21, p. 551)Frances Perkins National Monument; Establishment (Proc. 10873)
GGlobal Illicit Drug Trade; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of December 11, p. 558)
HHong Kong; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of July 10, p. 514)Hostage-Taking and Wrongful Detention of U. S. Nationals Abroad; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of July 16, p. 515)Human Rights Abuse and Corruption; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of December 11, p. 558)
IInformation and Communications Technology and Services, Supply Chain Security; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of May 8, p. 482)Iran; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of March 12, p. 475)Iran; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of November 1, p. 552)Iraq; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of May 20, p. 493)
KKenya, Designation as Major Non-NATO Ally (Presidential Determination No. 2024-05 of June 24, p. 510)
LLabor, Department of:
Registered Apprenticeships and Labor-Management Forums; Expansion and Promotion Efforts for Use in Industries and Federal Government (EO 14119)Laredo, TX; Authorization To Expand and Continue To Maintain and Operate a Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing at the World Trade Bridge Land Port of Entry (Presidential Permit of May 31, p. 501)Lebanese Nationals; Deferred Enforced Departure From U.S. (Memorandum of July 26, p. 521)Lebanon; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of July 29, p. 523)Liberians; Extension of Eligibility for Deferred Enforced Departure (Memorandum of June 28, p. 510)Libya; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of February 21, p. 472)
MMajor Drug Transit or Major Illicit Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year 2025 (Presidential Determination No. 2024-12 of September 15, p. 535)Mali; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of July 16, p. 516)Manual for Courts Martial, United States; 2024 Amendments (EO 14130)Maverick County, TX; Authorization To Construct, Maintain, and Operate a Vehicular, Pedestrian, and Rail Border Crossing Near Eagle Pass, TX, at the U.S.-Mexico Border (Presidential Permit of May 31, p. 497)
NNational Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012; Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) (Presidential Determination No. 2024-04 of May 8, p. 484)National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012; Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 1245(d)(4)(B) and (C) (Presidential Determination No. 2025-01 of November 7, p. 556)National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024; Delegation of Authority Under Section 1230 (Memorandum of February 16, p. 470)National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024; Delegation of Authority Under Section 1247 (Memorandum of June 21, p. 508)National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024; Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Sections 1333, 1342, 1352, and 1353 (Memorandum of July 9, p. 513)National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024; Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Sections 1352 and 1353 (Memorandum of December 11, p. 559)Nicaragua; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of November 22, p. 557)North Korea; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of June 13, p. 505)
PPalestinians; Deferred Enforced Departure From U.S. (Memorandum of February 14, p. 469)Protecting American Intellectual Property Act of 2022; Delegation of Functions and Authorities (Memorandum of July 19, p. 518)Protecting Americans From Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act; Delegation of Authority (Memorandum of July 24, p. 520)Public Law 118-50; Delegation of Certain Sanctions-Related Authorities (Memorandum of September 13, p. 532)
RRebuilding Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for Ukrainians Act; Delegation of Certain Functions and Authorities (Memorandum of July 22, p. 519)Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2025; Presidential Determination (Presidential Determination No. 2024-13 of September 30, p. 541)Russian Federation; Continuation of National Emergency With Respect to Specified Harmful Foreign Activities (Notice of April 9, p. 479)
Russian-Affiliated Vessels to U.S. Ports; Continuation of National Emergency and Emergency Authority Relating to Regulation of Anchorage and Movement (Notice of April 16, p. 481)
SSan Gabriel Mountains National Monument; Boundary Enlargement (Proc. 10746)Singapore; Agreement for Cooperation With the U.S. Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy (Presidential Determination No. 2024-08 of July 26, p. 522)Somalia; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of April 9, p. 478)South Sudan: Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of March 26, p. 477)Southwebb Bridge Company LLC; Authorization To Construct, Maintain, and Operate Vehicular and Pedestrian Border Crossing Near Laredo, TX, at Mexico-U.S. International Boundary (Presidential Permit of October 3, p. 545)Special Observances:
60th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act (Proc. 10781)
Amending Proclamation 10773 (Proc. 10817)
America Recycles Day (Proc. 10858)
American Education Week (Proc. 10859)
American Heart Month (Proc. 10698)
American Red Cross Month (Proc. 10703)
Anniversary of the Americans With Disabilities Act (Proc. 10787)
Announcing the Death of James Earl Carter, Jr. (Proc. 10876)
Arab American Heritage Month (Proc. 10714)
Armed Forces Day (Proc. 10762)
Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Week (Proc. 10816)
Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islanders Heritage Month (Proc. 10735)
Bill of Rights Day (Proc. 10872)
Black Maternal Health Week (Proc. 10727)
Black Music Month (Proc. 10766)
Blind Americans Equality Day (Proc. 10840)
Brown v. Board of Education; 70th Anniversary (Proc. 10758)
Captive Nations Week (Proc. 10785)
Care Workers Recognition Month (Proc. 10715)
Cesar Chavez Day (Proc. 10723)
Child Health Day (Proc. 10833)
Columbus Day (Proc. 10838)
Constitution Day and Citizenship Day, and Constitution Week (Proc. 10812)
Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month (Proc. 10846)
Days of Remembrance of the Victims of the Holocaust (Proc. 10747)
Earth Day (Proc. 10732)
Education and Sharing Day, USA (Proc. 10728)
Father's Day (Proc. 10777)
Fire Prevention Week (Proc. 10830)
Flag Day and National Flag Week (Proc. 10775)
General Pulaski Memorial Day (Proc. 10835)
German-American Day (Proc. 10832)
Gold Star Mother's and Family's Day (Proc. 10818)
Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American Democracy (Proc. 10713)
Human Rights Day and Human Rights Week (Proc. 10871)
Immigrant Heritage Month (Proc. 10772)
Indigenous Peoples' Day (Proc. 10839)
International Conservation Day (Proc. 10861)
International Day of Persons With Disabilities (Proc. 10868)
International Day of the Girl (Proc. 10836)
Irish-American Heritage Month (Proc. 10704)
Jewish American Heritage Month (Proc. 10736)
Juneteenth Day of Observance (Proc. 10778)
Labor Day (Proc. 10802)
Law Day, U.S.A. (Proc. 10742)
Leif Erikson Day (Proc. 10834)
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride Month (Proc. 10767)
Loyalty Day (Proc. 10743)
Made in America Week (Proc. 10786)
Martin Luther King, Jr., Federal Holiday (Proc. 10696)
Military Spouse Appreciation Day (Proc. 10753)
Minority Enterprise Development Week (Proc. 10841)
Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day (Proc. 10752)
Month of the Military Child (Proc. 10716)
Mother's Day (Proc. 10757)
National Adoption Month (Proc. 10847)
National Agriculture Day (Proc. 10712)
National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month (Proc. 10848)
National Apprenticeship Week (Proc. 10860)
National Arts and Humanities Month (Proc. 10821)
National Atomic Veterans Day (Proc. 10784)
National Black History Month (Proc. 10699)
National Breast Cancer Awareness Month (Proc. 10822)
National Building Safety Month (Proc. 10737)
National Cancer Prevention and Early Detection Month (Proc. 10717)
National Caribbean-American Heritage Month (Proc. 10768)
National Character Counts Week (Proc. 10842)
National Child Abuse Prevention Month (Proc. 10718)
National Child's Day (Proc. 10862)
National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month (Proc. 10795)
National Clean Energy Action Month (Proc. 10823)
National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month (Proc. 10705)
National Community Policing Week (Proc. 10831)
National Consumer Protection Week (Proc. 10707)
National Crime Victims' Rights Week (Proc. 10730)
National Cybersecurity Month (Proc. 10824)
National Day of Prayer (Proc. 10744)
National Day of Remembrance of the 80th Anniversary of D-Day (Proc. 10774)
National Days of Prayer and Remembrance (Proc. 10803)
National Defense Transportation Day and National Transportation Week (Proc. 10754)
National Diabetes Month (Proc. 10849)
National Disability Employment Awareness Month (Proc. 10825)
National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month (Proc. 10826)
National Donate Life Month (Proc. 10719)
National Eating Disorders Awareness Week (Proc. 10702)
National Emergency Medical Services Week (Proc. 10760)
National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week (Proc. 10791)
National Entrepreneurship Month (Proc. 10850)
National Equal Pay Day (Proc. 10710)
National Fallen Firefighters Memorial Weekend (Proc. 10751)
National Family Caregivers Month (Proc. 10851)
National Family Week (Proc. 10864)
National Farm Safety and Health Week (Proc. 10810)
National First Responders Day (Proc. 10845)
National Forest Products Week (Proc. 10843)
National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day (Proc. 10726)
National Foster Care Month (Proc. 10738)
National Grandparents Day (Proc. 10805)
National Health Center Week (Proc. 10789)
National Hepatitis Testing Day (Proc. 10763)
National Hispanic Heritage Month (Proc. 10809)
National Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week (Proc. 10804)
National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week (Proc. 10811)
National Homeownership Month (Proc. 10769)
National Human Trafficking Prevention Month (Proc. 10877)
National Hunting and Fishing Day (Proc. 10819)
National Hurricane Preparedness Week (Proc. 10748)
National Impaired Driving Prevention Month (Proc. 10866)
National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day (Proc. 10788)
National Lung Cancer Awareness Month (Proc. 10852)
National Manufacturing Day (Proc. 10829)
National Maritime Day (Proc. 10764)
National Mental Health Awareness Month (Proc. 10739)
National Mentoring Month (Proc. 10878)
National Native American Heritage Month (Proc. 10853)
National Ocean Month (Proc. 10770)
National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month (Proc. 10796)
National Park Week (Proc. 10729)
National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day (Proc. 10869)
National Physical Fitness and Sports Month (Proc. 10740)
National Poison Prevention Week (Proc. 10711)
National POW/MIA Recognition Day (Proc. 10814)
National Preparedness Month (Proc. 10797)
National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month (Proc. 10798)
National Public Health Week (Proc. 10722)
National Public Lands Day (Proc. 10820)
National Recovery Month (Proc. 10799)
National Rural Health Day (Proc. 10863)
National Safe Boating Week (Proc. 10759)
National School Lunch Week (Proc. 10837)
National Service Dog Day (Proc. 10815)
National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month (Proc. 10720)
National Sickle Cell Awareness Month (Proc. 10800)
National Small Business Week (Proc. 10733)
National Stalking Awareness Month (Proc. 10879)
National Teacher Appreciation Day and National Teacher Appreciation Week (Proc. 10750)
National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month (Proc. 10700)
National Tribal Colleges and Universities Week (Proc. 10701)
National Veterans and Military Families Month (Proc. 10854)
National Volunteer Week (Proc. 10731)
National Voter Registration Day (Proc. 10813)
National Wilderness Month (Proc. 10801)
National Youth Justice Action Month (Proc. 10827)
National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month (Proc. 10828)
Older Americans Month (Proc. 10741)
Overdose Awareness Week (Proc. 10793)
Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance (Proc. 10807)
Peace Officers Memorial Day and Police Officer Week (Proc. 10755)
Prayer for Peace, Memorial Day (Proc. 10765)
Public Service Recognition Week (Proc. 10749)
Read Across America Day (Proc. 10708)
Religious Freedom Day (Proc. 10697)
Second Chance Month (Proc. 10721)
Thanksgiving Day (Proc. 10865)
Transgender Day of Visibility (Proc. 10724)
U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day (Proc. 10709)
United Nations Day (Proc. 10844)
Veterans Day (Proc. 10855)
Violence Against Women Act; 30th Anniversary (Proc. 10808)
Women's Equality Day (Proc. 10794)
Women's Health Week (Proc. 10756)
Women's History Month (Proc. 10706)
Workers Memorial Day (Proc. 10734)
World AIDS Day (Proc. 10867)
World Autism Awareness Day (Proc. 10725)
World Elder Abuse Awareness Day (Proc. 10776)
World Freedom Day (Proc. 10856)
World Suicide Prevention Day (Proc. 10806)
World Trade Week (Proc. 10761)
Wright Brothers Day (Proc. 10874)Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument; Establishment (Proc. 10792)State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956; Delegation of Authority Under Section 1 (j) (4) (Memorandum of February 8, p. 469)Steel Imports Into U.S.; Adjustments (Proc. 10783)
Sudan; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of October 25, p. 551)Syria, Detained ISIS Members and Relevant Displaced Populations; Delegation of Authority To Designate Existing Official To Serve Within Executive Branch as Coordinator (Memorandum of August 16, p. 527)Syria; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of May 8, p. 483)Syria; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of October 10, p. 548)
TTerrorism; Continuation of National Emergency Respecting Persons Who Commit, Threaten To Commit, or Support (Notice of September 18, p. 538)Terrorist Attacks; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of September 9, p. 530)Trade:
United States-Israel Agreement on Trade in Agricultural Products and for Other Purposes; Implementation (Proc. 10875)Trading With the Enemy Act; Continuation of Exercise of Certain Authorities (Presidential Determination No. 2024-11 of September 13, p. 531)Trafficking in Persons; Presidential Determination With Respect to Foreign Government Efforts (Presidential Determination No. 2024-14 of September 30, p. 542)Transnational Criminal Organizations; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of July 16, p. 517)
UU.S. Elections, Foreign Interference or Undermining Public Confidence; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of September 9, p. 530)U.S. Steel Imports; Adjustments (Proc. 10771)Ukraine Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024; Delegation of Authorities Under Sections 507(d) and 508(a) (Memorandum of November 15, p. 556)Ukraine; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of March 4, p. 473)Uniform Code of Military Justice; Pardon for Certain Violations of Article 125 (Proc. 10780)United States-Taiwan Initiative on 21st-Century Trade First Agreement Implementation Act; Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Section 6(a)-(c) (Memorandum of August 5, p. 524)
VVenezuela; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of March 5, p. 474)
WWeapons of Mass Destruction, Proliferation; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of November 7, p. 553)West Bank; Imposing Certain Sanctions on Persons Undermining Peace, Security, and Stability (EO 14115)Western Balkans; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of June 13, p. 507)William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021; Delegation of Functions and Authorities Under Section 9902(a)(3)(B) (Memorandum of July 19, p. 518)Women's Health Research and Innovation; Advancement Efforts (EO 14120)Women's History; Efforts To Recognize and Honor (EO 14121)
YYemen; Continuation of National Emergency (Notice of May 14, 2024, p. 490)
ZZimbabwe; Termination of National Emergency (EO 14118)

# CFR Finding Aids
Editorial note:
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters, and parts, and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the
CFR Index and Finding Aids
volume to the
Code of Federal Regulations
, which is published separately and revised annually as of January 1.
The two finding aids on the following pages, the “Table of CFR Titles and Chapters” and the “Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR” apply to all 50 titles of the
Code of Federal Regulations
. Reference aids specific to this volume appear in the section entitled “Title 3 Finding Aids,” found on page 577.
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
(Parts 103-001—104-099) [Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of January 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
