Dec. 11, 2024
Title 22
Foreign Relations
Part 300 to End
Revised as of April 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of April 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
e:\seals\archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
e:\seals\gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
vi

# Title 22:
Chapter III—Peace Corps
3
Chapter IV—International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
77
Chapter V—United States Agency for Global Media
87
Chapter VII—US International Development Finance Corporation
193
Chapter IX—Foreign Service Grievance Board
241
Chapter X—Inter-American Foundation
257
Chapter XI—International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
309
Chapter XII—United States International Development Cooperation Agency
347
Chapter XIII—Millennium Challenge Corporation
367
Chapter XIV—Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
391
Chapter XV—African Development Foundation
445
Chapter XVI—Japan-United States Friendship Commission
509
Chapter XVII—United States Institute of Peace
519

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
531
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
551
List of CFR Sections Affected
561
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
22 CFR 301.1
refers to title 22, part 301, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, April 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
April 1, 2025.

# THIS TITLE
Title 22—
Foreign Relations
is composed of two volumes. The first volume, parts 1-299 contains Chapter I—Department of State regulations and Chapter II—Agency for International Development regulations. The second volume, part 300 to End is composed of Chapter III—Peace Corps; Chapter IV—International Joint Commission, United States and Canada; Chapter V—United States Agency for Global Media; Chapter VII—US International Development Finance Corporation; Chapter IX—Foreign Service Grievance Board; Chapter X—Inter-American Foundation; Chapter XI—International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section; Chapter XII—United States International Development Cooperation Agency; Chapter XIII—Millennium Challenge Corporation; Chapter XIV—Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel; Chapter XV—African Development Foundation; Chapter XVI—Japan-United States Friendship Commission; and Chapter XVII—United States Institute of Peace. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of April 1, 2025.
For this volume, Susannah C. Hurley was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
22 CFR Ch. III (4-1-25 Edition)
Peace Corps

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
(This book contains part 300 to end)
Part
chapter iii
—Peace Corps
301
chapter iv
—International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
401
chapter v
—United States Agency for Global Media
501
chapter vii
—US International Development Finance Corporation
705
chapter ix
—Foreign Service Grievance Board
901
chapter x
—Inter-American Foundation
1001
chapter xi
—International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
1100
chapter xii
—United States International Development Cooperation Agency
1201
chapter xiii
—Millennium Challenge Corporation
1301
chapter xiv
—Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
1411
chapter xv
—African Development Foundation
1500
chapter xvi
—Japan-United States Friendship Commission
1600
chapter xvii
—United States Institute of Peace
1701

# CHAPTER III—PEACE CORPS
Part
Page
300
[Reserved]
301
Public access to classified material
5
303
Procedures for disclosure of information under the Freedom of Information Act
5
304
Claims against Government under Federal Tort Claims Act
25
305
Eligibility and standards for Peace Corps volunteer service
29
306
Volunteer discrimination complaint procedure
35
308
Implementation of the Privacy Act of 1974
39
309
Debt collection
48
311
New restrictions on lobbying
57
312
Governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
68
313
Guidance procedures
73
314-399
[Reserved]
PART 300 [RESERVED]
Pt. 301

# PART 301—PUBLIC ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED MATERIAL
Sec.
301.1
Introduction.
301.2
Requests for mandatory declassification review.
301.3
Action on requests for declassification review.

# Authority:
E.O. 12356, 43 FR 14874 dated April 2, 1982.

# Source:
49 FR 13692, Apr. 6, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 301.1
Introduction.
The following regulations implement Executive Order 12356 and provide guidance for members of the public desiring a review for declassification of a document of the Peace Corps.
§ 301.2
Requests for mandatory declassification review.
(a) All information originally classified by the Peace Corps shall be subject to review for declassification.
(b) Requests for review of such information for declassification shall be in writing, addressed to the Peace Corps Director of Security, Peace Corps, Washington, DC 20526, and reasonably describe the information sought with sufficient specificity to enable its location with a reasonable amount of effort. Only requests made by a United States citizen or a permanent resident alien, a Federal agency or a State or local government will be considered.
(c) Requests relating to information, either derivatively classified by the Peace Corps or originally classified by another agency but in the possession of the Peace Corps, shall be forwarded, together with a copy of the record, to the originating agency. The transmittal may contain in Peace Corps recommendation for action.
§ 301.3
Action on requests for declassification review.
(a) The Director of Security shall present each request for declassification to the Peace Corps Classification Review Committee, which shall consist of the Associate Director for International Operations, the Associate Director for Management and the General Counsel, or their designees, together with his or her recommendation for action.
(b) Every effort will be made to complete action on each request within 60 days of receipt thereof.
(c) Information shall be declassified or downgraded as soon as national security considerations permit. If the Classification Review Committee determines that the material for which review is requested no longer requires this protection, it shall be declassified and made available to the requester unless withholding is otherwise authorized by law.
(d) If the Peace Corps Classification Review Committee determines that requested information must remain classified, the requester shall be given prompt notice of the decision and, if possible, a brief explanation of why the information cannot be declassified.
(e) The Peace Corps may refuse to confirm or deny the existence or non-existence of requested information whenever the fact of its existence or non-existence is itself classified under E.O. 12356.
(f) A requester may appeal a refusal to declassify information to the Director of the Peace Corps, or the Director's designee. Appeals shall be in writing, addressed to the Director of the Peace Corps, Washington, DC 20526, and shall briefly state the reasons why the requester believes that the Peace Corps Classification Review Committee decision is in error. Appeals must be submitted within 30 days after receipt of notice of the Classification Review Committee decision. The decision of the Peace Corps Director, or designee, will be based on the entire record, and will be rendered in writing within 60 days after receipt of an appeal. The decision of the Director or Director's designee is the final Peace Corps action on a request.
Pt. 303

# PART 303—PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
Sec.
303.1
Purpose.
303.2
Definitions.
303.3
Policy.
303.4
Records published in the Federal Register.
303.5
FOIA Library.
303.6
Index of records.
303.7
Requests for records.
303.8
Timing of responses to requests.
303.9
Exemptions for withholding records.
303.10
Responsibilities and authorities.
303.11
Responses to requests.
303.12
Denials.
303.13
Appeals.
303.14
Confidential commercial information.
303.15
Preservation of records.
303.16
Fees.
303.17
Procedures for responding to a subpoena.
303.18
Other rights and services.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 552a, 553; 22 U.S.C. 2501
et seq.;
31 U.S.C. 3717.

# Source:
68 FR 66008, Nov. 25, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 303.1
Purpose.
This part sets out the rules and procedures the Peace Corps follows in making records available to the public under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
§ 303.2
Definitions.
Commercial use request
means a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made. In determining whether a requester has made a commercial use request, the Peace Corps will look to the use to which a requester will put the documents requested. When the Peace Corps has reasonable cause to doubt the requester's stated use of the records sought, or where the use is not clear from the request itself, it will seek additional clarification before assigning the request to a category.
Compelling need
means:
(1) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;
(2) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Peace Corps or Federal Government activity and the request is made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information; or
(3) A matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exist possible questions about the Peace Corps' or the Federal Government's integrity which affect public confidence.
Confidential commercial information
means commercial or financial information obtained by the Peace Corps from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
Direct costs
are those expenses that the Peace Corps incurs in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing) records in order to respond to a FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (
i.e.,
the basic rate of pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses, such as the costs of space, and of heating or lighting a facility.
Duplication
means the process of making a copy of a record requested pursuant to this part. Such copies can take the form of paper copy, microform, audio-visual materials, or machine readable electronic documents, among others.
Educational institution
means any school or undergraduate, graduate, professional, or vocational institute that operates a program or programs of scholarly research, or any member of the same (including faculty or students) who seeks records in pursuit of their role at the educational institution.
Expedited processing
means the process set forth in the FOIA that allows requesters to ask for expedited processing of their FOIA request if they can demonstrate a compelling need.
Fee waiver
means the waiver or reduction of processing fees if a requester can demonstrate that certain statutory standards are satisfied including that the information is in the public interest and is not requested for a commercial interest.
FOIA Public Liaison
means an agency official who is responsible for assisting
in reducing delays, increasing transparency and understanding of the status of requests, and assisting in the resolution of disputes.
Non-commercial scientific institution
means an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
OIG records
mean those records as defined generally in this section which originated with or are in the possession and control of the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the Peace Corps which have been compiled for law enforcement, audit, and investigative functions and/or any other purpose authorized under the IG Act of 1978, as amended.
Records
as set forth in the Federal Records Act of 1950, as amended, at 44 U.S.C. 3301, and in any other applicable federal statute (
e.g.,
the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended).
Representative of the news media
is any person or entity that actively gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. Examples of news media entities include, but are not limited to, television or radio stations that broadcast news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate news and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity shall be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, components shall also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination.
Requester category
means one of the three categories that agencies place requesters in for the purpose of determining whether a requester will be charged fees for search, review and duplication, including commercial requesters, non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requesters, and all other requesters.
Review
means the process of examining a document located in response to a request to determine whether any portion of such document is exempt from disclosure. It also includes processing any such document for disclosure. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
Search
means the process of looking for and retrieving records that are responsive to a request for records. It includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents and also includes reasonable efforts to locate and retrieve information from records maintained in electronic form or format. Searches may be conducted manually or by automated means and will be conducted in the most efficient and least expensive manner. If the agency cannot identify the requested records after a 2 hour search, it can determine that the records were not adequately described and ask the requester to provide a more specific request.
Submitter
means any person or entity, including a corporation, state, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, that provides confidential commercial information, either directly or indirectly to the Federal Government.
Unusual circumstances,
as used in this part, mean circumstances attending a request for information and are limited to the following, but only to the extent reasonably necessary for the proper processing of the particular request:
(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from offices or locations that are separate from the office processing the request;
(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable
speed, with another agency or organization having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more offices of the Peace Corps having a substantial subject matter interest therein.
Initial denial authority (IDA)
is an official who has been granted authority as the FOIA Officer who may deny FOIA requests of the Peace Corps based on one or more of the nine categories of exemptions from mandatory disclosure. An IDA also: denies a fee category claim by a requester; denies a request for expedited processing due to demonstrated compelling need; denies a request for a waiver or reduction of fees; reviews a fee estimate; and confirms that no records were located in response to a request.
[89 FR 25521, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.3
Policy.
(a) The Peace Corps will administer the FOIA with a presumption of openness. The Peace Corps will make its records concerning its operations, activities, and business available to the public, consistent with the requirements of the FOIA. The agency will also consider whether partial disclosure of information is possible whenever it determines that a full disclosure of a requested record is not possible. This includes taking reasonable steps to segregate and release nonexempt information.
(b) Records that the FOIA requires agencies to make available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through the Peace Corps' website. The Peace Corps FOIA Office is responsible for determining which of its records must be made publicly available (including frequently requested records), identifying additional records of interest to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and for posting and indexing such records. The Peace Corps will ensure that its website of posted records and indices is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. The Peace Corps has a FOIA Public Liaison who can assist individuals in locating records.
(c) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(8), the Peace Corps may make discretionary disclosures of records or information, without a formal FOIA request and that may be exempt from disclosure under the FOIA whenever disclosure would not foreseeably harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption and disclosure is not prohibited by law. However, this policy does not create any enforceable right in a court of law or any other tribunal.
(d) Requests for records of the Office of Inspector General (OIG records), as defined in § 303.2, and appeals from denials of requests for OIG records are subject to this policy and will be granted or denied consistent with § 303.10(b) through (c) through their own FOIA adjudication process.
[89 FR 25523, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.4
Records published in the Federal Register.
The Peace Corps publishes its notices and substantive regulations in the
Federal Register.
It also publishes information on its basic structure and operations necessary to inform the public how to deal effectively with the Peace Corps in the
United States Government Manual,
a special publication of the
Federal Register.
The Peace Corps will make reasonable efforts to currently update such information, which includes information on Peace Corps' location and functions, and how the public may obtain information or forms, or make submittals or requests. The Peace Corps' published regulations are at 22 CFR Chapter III.
§ 303.5
FOIA Library.
(a) The public reading room is no longer physically available. The Peace Corps makes information available to the public electronically through the Peace Corps' FOIA Library on its public website at
https://www.peacecorps.gov/about/open-government/.
(b) Subject to the limitation stated in paragraph (c) of this section, the following records will be made available in the FOIA Library:
(1) All final public opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, and orders issued in the adjudication of cases that involve the Peace Corps;
(2) Statements of policy and interpretations adopted by the Peace Corps that are not published in the
Federal Register
;
(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to the staff that affect the public;
(4) Copies of frequently requested records, regardless of form or format, with a general index of such records:
(i) Released to any person in response to a public request for records which the Peace Corps determines are likely to become subject to subsequent requests for substantially the same records or
(ii) For which there have been 3 or more requests;
(5) The index required by § 303.6; and
(6) Other records the Peace Corps has determined are of general interest to members of the public in understanding activities of the Peace Corps or in dealing with the Peace Corps in connection with those activities.
(c) Records required by the FOIA to be available in the FOIA Library may be exempt from mandatory disclosure pursuant to section 552(b) of the FOIA. Such records will not be made available in the FOIA Library. Other records maintained in the FOIA Library may be edited by the redaction of information protected under section 552(b) of the FOIA. The extent of the redaction shall be indicated, unless doing so would harm an interest protected by the exemption under which the redaction is made. If technically feasible, the extent of the redaction shall be indicated at the place in the record where the redaction was made.
(d) Records required by the FOIA to be maintained shall be made available in the Peace Corps' electronic FOIA Library.
(e) Most public electronic records will also be made available to the public on the Peace Corps website at
https://www.peacecorps.gov.
[89 FR 25523, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.6
Index of records.
The Peace Corps will maintain a current index identifying any matter within the scope of § 303.4 or § 303.5(b)(1) through (5). The index will be maintained and made available for public inspection and copying at the Peace Corps' headquarters in Washington, DC. The cost of a copy of the index will not exceed the standard charge for duplication set out in § 303.13(e). The Peace Corps will also make the index available on its public Web site.
[68 FR 66008, Nov. 25, 2003. Redesignated at 89 FR 25523, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.7
Requests for records.
(a) Except for records required by the FOIA to be published in the
Federal Register
or to be made available in the FOIA Library, Peace Corps records will be made promptly available, upon request, to any person in accordance with this section, unless it is determined that such records should be withheld and are exempt from mandatory disclosure under the FOIA.
(b) Requests for records under this section shall be:
(1) Made in writing, shall include the name of the requester, and the envelope, email, and/or the letter shall be clearly marked “Freedom of Information Request.” All such requests shall be addressed to the FOIA Officer. Requests by letter shall be directed to Peace Corps FOIA Officer, 1275 First Street NE, Washington DC 20526. Requests by email shall be directed to
FOIA@peacecorps.gov.
Any request not marked and addressed as specified in this paragraph will be so marked by Peace Corps personnel as soon as it is properly identified and will be forwarded immediately to the FOIA Officer. A request improperly addressed will not be deemed to have been received for purposes of the time period set out in paragraph (h) of this section until it has been received by the FOIA Officer. Upon receipt of an improperly addressed request, the FOIA Officer shall notify the requester of the date on which the time period began. All paper requests shall be stamped “received” on the date it is received by the FOIA Officer. Electronic requests are deemed to be “received” on the date in which the FOIA Officer acknowledges receipt.
(2) A request must reasonably describe the records requested so that employees of the Peace Corps who are familiar with the subject area of the request are able, with a reasonable amount of effort, to determine which particular records are within the scope of the request. If it is determined that a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the requester shall
be so informed and provided an opportunity to confer with Peace Corps personnel in order to attempt to reformulate the request in a manner that will meet the needs of the requester and the requirements of this paragraph (b).
(c) The Peace Corps requires that first-party requesters provide the following information so that the Peace Corps can protect the personal information found in its files and ensure that records are disclosed only to the proper persons: the requester's full name, current address, citizenship or legal permanent resident alien status, date and place of birth (city, state, and country), and a copy of a photo ID. A first-party request must be signed, and the requester's signature must be either notarized or made under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746 as a substitute for notarization. A requester may request this penalty of perjury statement from the FOIA office to complete for submission.
(d) To facilitate the location of records by the Peace Corps, a requester should try to provide the following kinds of information, if known:
(1) The specific event or action to which the record refers;
(2) The unit or program of the Peace Corps which may be responsible for or may have produced the record;
(3) The date of the record or the date or period to which it refers or relates;
(4) The type of record, such as an application, a particular form, a contract, or a report;
(5) Personnel of the Peace Corps who may have prepared or have knowledge of the record; or
(6) Citations to newspapers or publications which have referred to the record.
(e) The Peace Corps is not required to create a record or to perform research to satisfy a request.
(f) Any request for a waiver or reduction of fees should be included in the FOIA request, and any such request should indicate the grounds for a waiver or reduction of fees, as set out in § 303.16(k).
(g) The Peace Corps will provide records in the form or format indicated by the requester to the extent such records are readily reproducible in the requested form or format.
(h)(1) The FOIA Officer or OIG FOIA Officer, upon request for any records made in accordance with this section, shall make an initial determination of whether to comply with or deny such request and dispatch such determination to the requester within 20 business days after receipt of such request, except for unusual circumstances, as defined in § 303.2, in which case the time limit may be extended for up to 10 business days by written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched.
(2) If the FOIA Officer determines that a request or portion thereof is for OIG records, the FOIA Officer shall promptly refer the request or portion thereof to the OIG FOIA Officer and send notice of such action to the requester. In such case, the OIG FOIA Officer shall make an initial determination of whether to comply with or deny such request and dispatch such determination to the requester within 20 business days after receipt of such request, except for unusual circumstances, in which case the time limit may be extended for up to 10 business days by written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched.
(i) If a request is particularly broad or complex so that it cannot be completed within the time periods stated in paragraph (h) of this section, the Peace Corps may ask the requester to narrow the request or agree to an additional delay.
(j) When no determination can be dispatched within the applicable time limit, the FOIA Officer or the OIG FOIA Officer shall inform the requester of the reason for the delay, the date on which a determination may be expected to be dispatched, and the requester's right to treat the delay as a denial and to appeal to the Associate Director for the Office of Management or the Inspector General, in accordance with § 303.13. If no determination has been dispatched by the end of the 20-day period, or the last extension thereof, the requester may deem the request denied, and exercise a right of appeal in
accordance with § 303.13. The FOIA Officer or the OIG FOIA Officer may ask the requester to forego an appeal until a determination is made.
(k) After it has been determined that a request will be granted, the responsible official will act with due diligence in providing a prompt response.
(l)(1) Requests and appeals will be taken out of order and given expedited treatment whenever the requester demonstrates a compelling need as defined in § 303.2.
(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at the time of the initial request for records or at any later time. For a prompt determination, a request for expedited processing must be properly addressed and marked and received by the Peace Corps pursuant to § 303.7(b).
(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement demonstrating a compelling need, as defined in § 303.2, that is certified by the requester to be true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief, explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing.
(4) Within 10 business days of its receipt of a request for expedited processing, the FOIA Officer or the OIG FOIA Officer shall decide whether to grant the request and shall notify the requester of the decision. If a request for expedited treatment is granted, the request shall be given priority and shall be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that decision shall be acted on expeditiously.
(5) Appeals regarding expedited processing denials shall be made to the Associate Director for the Office of Management, or in the case of a denial by the OIG FOIA Officer of a request for expedited processing, the Inspector General, who shall respond within 10 business days of receipt of the appeal.
[89 FR 25523, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.8
Timing of responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
The Peace Corps ordinarily will respond to requests according to their order of receipt. The response time will commence on the date that the request is received by the Peace Corps' FOIA Officer or by the OIG FOIA Officer.
(b)
Multitrack processing.
The Peace Corps designates a specific track for requests that are granted expedited processing in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. The Peace Corps may also designate additional processing tracks that distinguish between simple and more complex requests based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. Among the factors the Peace Corps may consider are the number of records requested, the number of pages involved in processing the request and the need for consultations or referrals. The Peace Corps will advise requesters of the track into which their request falls and, when appropriate, should offer the requesters an opportunity to narrow or modify their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.
(c)
Unusual circumstances.
Whenever the Peace Corps cannot meet the time limit for processing a request because of unusual circumstances as defined in § 303.2 and the Peace Corps extends the time limit on that basis, the Peace Corps will, before expiration of the 20-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which the Peace Corps estimates processing of the request will be completed. Where the extension exceeds 10 working days, the Peace Corps will provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. The Peace Corps will make available its designated FOIA contact or its FOIA Public Liaison for this purpose. The Peace Corps FOIA Public Liaison is identified on the agency's FOIA Open Government web page
https://www.peacecorps.gov/about/open-government/foia/
and is available at
FOIA@peacecorps.gov.
The Peace Corps will also alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) to provide dispute resolution services.
(d)
Aggregating requests.
To address unusual circumstances as defined in § 303.2, the Peace Corps may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably
appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. The Peace Corps will not aggregate multiple requests that involve unrelated matters.
(e)
Expedited processing.
(1) The Peace Corps will process requests and appeals on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve a compelling need as defined in § 303.2.
(2) A request for expedited processing of a request for information may be made at any time and submitted to the Peace Corps FOIA Officer or to the OIG FOIA Officer in the case of a request concerning OIG records. When making a request for expedited processing of an administrative appeal, the request should be submitted to the Associate Director for the Office of Management, or in the case of an appeal concerning OIG records, the Inspector General.
(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing will submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. For example, in § 303.2, paragraph (2) of the definition for compelling need, a requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request—one that extends beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject may be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an “urgency to inform” the public on the topic. As a matter of administrative discretion, the Peace Corps may waive the formal certification requirement.
(4) The Peace Corps will notify the requester within 10 calendar days of the receipt of a request for expedited processing of its decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request will be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, the Peace Corps will act on any appeal of that decision expeditiously.
[89 FR 25524, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.9
Exemptions for withholding records.
(a) The Peace Corps may withhold information in part or in its entirety using FOIA exemptions listed in 5 U.S.C. 552 (b), when the Initial Denial Authority (IDA) reasonably foresees that the disclosure of such information would cause harm to an interest protected by the exemption or exemptions, or if disclosure is prohibited by law. The Peace Corps will take reasonable steps necessary to segregate and release nonexempt information. The Peace Corps may withhold a requested record from public disclosure only if the record fits within one or more of the following FOIA exemptions:
(1) Matter specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and is in fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive Order;
(2) Matter which is related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Peace Corps;
(3) Matter which is specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than exemptions under FOIA at 5 U.S.C. 552(b)), provided that such statute requires that the matter be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or establishes particular criteria for withholding, or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(5) Inter-agency or intra-agency memoranda or letters which would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the Peace Corps, except that the deliberative process privilege shall not apply to records created 25 years or more before the date on which the records were requested;
(6) Personnel and medical files and similar files, the disclosure of which
would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes including enforcing the Peace Corps Act or any other law, but only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or information:
(i) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(ii) Would deprive a person or a recipient of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(iii) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution which furnished information on a confidential basis; and, in the case of a record or information compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, information furnished by a confidential source;
(v) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or
(vi) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual.
(8) Contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions; or
(9) Geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells.
(b) In the event that one or more of the exemptions in paragraph (a) of this section apply, any reasonably segregable portion of a record shall be provided to the requester after deletion of the portions that are exempt. The Peace Corps shall indicate, if technically feasible, the precise amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion is made at the place in the record where the deletion is made, and indicate the exemption under which a deletion is made on the released portion of the record, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption. At the discretion of the Peace Corps officials authorized to grant or deny a request for records, it may be possible to provide a requester with:
(1) A summary of information in the exempt portion of a record; or
(2) An oral description of the exempt portion of a record.
(c) No requester shall have a right to insist that any or all of the techniques in paragraph (b) of this section should be employed in order to satisfy a request.
(d) Records that may be exempt from disclosure pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section may be made available at the discretion of the Peace Corps.
(e) (1) It is the policy of the Peace Corps to withhold proprietary information that falls within the protection of paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Proprietary information includes trade secrets, or commercial or financial information obtained from a person, the disclosure of which could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm.
(2) It is also the policy of the Peace Corps to give submitters of arguably proprietary information an adequate opportunity to provide information to the Peace Corps to establish that the information constitutes protected proprietary information.
(3) A person submitting arguably proprietary information to the Peace Corps will be notified in writing by the Peace Corps if there is a FOIA request for the information, unless:
(i) The Peace Corps has already decided that the information should be withheld;
(ii) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public; or
(iii) Disclosure of the information is required by law.
(4) The notice shall afford the submitter at least ten business days in which to object to the disclosure of any requested information. Whenever the Peace Corps provides such notice to the submitter, it shall also notify the requester that notice and an opportunity
to comment are being provided to the submitter.
(5) A submitter's request for protection for information under paragraph (a)(4) of this section shall:
(i) Specifically identify the exact material claimed to be confidential proprietary information;
(ii) State whether the information identified has ever been released to a person who is not in a confidential relationship with the submitter;
(iii) State the basis for the submitter's belief that the information is not commonly known or readily ascertainable by outside persons; and
(iv) State how release of the information would cause harm to the submitter's competitive position.
(6) The Peace Corps shall consider the submitter's objections and specific grounds for non-disclosure when deciding whether to disclose the information. If the Peace Corps decides to disclose the information, it shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide the submitter at least ten business days notice of its decision before the information is disclosed and a statement of its reasons for not sustaining the objection to disclosure. Whenever the Peace Corps notifies the submitter of its final decision, it shall also notify the requester.
(7) Whenever a FOIA requester brings suit seeking to compel disclosure of proprietary information, the Peace Corps shall promptly notify the submitter.
(f) The IDA may also withhold information applicable under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and (k) when the records are managed within a system of records; see 22 CFR part 308.
[68 FR 66008, Nov. 25, 2003; 68 FR 68695, Dec. 9, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 19819, Apr. 10, 2014; 89 FR 25525, Apr. 11, 2024; 89 FR 50522, June 14, 2024]
§ 303.10
Responsibilities and authorities.
(a)
Legal counsel.
The General Counsel (GC) shall furnish legal advice to Peace Corps officials and staff as to their obligations under this part and shall take such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to assure a consistent and equitable application of the provisions of this part by and within the Peace Corps. The OIG Legal Counsel will coordinate with GC, as appropriate and necessary, when furnishing legal advice to the OIG FOIA Officer and Inspector General.
(b)
Authority to grant or deny requests.
The FOIA Officer is authorized to grant or deny requests for records, except for OIG records, under this part. The OIG FOIA Officer is authorized to grant or deny requests for OIG records under this part. The FOIA Officer and the OIG FOIA Officer shall consult with each other when a request includes both Peace Corps and OIG records in order to ensure consistency and lack of duplication in processing the request.
(c)
Authority to grant or deny appeals.
The Associate Director for the Office of Management is authorized to grant or deny appeals under § 303.13(a) through (c) except in the case of appeals from denials of requests for OIG records. The Inspector General is authorized to grant or deny appeals under § 303.13(a) through (c) from denials of requests for OIG records. Both the Associate Director for the Office of Management and the Inspector General shall follow this part in processing appeals.
(d)(1)
Records received from other agencies.
When the Peace Corps receives a request for a record in its possession that it has received from another agency, it shall determine whether the other agency is better qualified to decide whether the record is exempt from disclosure and, if so, whether it should be disclosed as a matter of discretion. If the Peace Corps determines it is better qualified to process the record in response to the request, then it shall do so. If the Peace Corps determines it is not better qualified to process the request, it shall either:
(i) Consult with the other agency before responding to the request; or
(ii) Refer the responsibility for responding to the request for the record to the other agency (but only if the agency is subject to FOIA). Ordinarily, the agency that originated a record will be presumed to be best able to determine whether to disclose it.
(2)
Law enforcement and classified information.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section:
(i) Whenever the Peace Corps receives a request for a record containing
information that relates to an investigation of a possible violation of law that was originated by another agency, the Peace Corps will either consult with the other agency before responding or refer the responsibility for responding to the request to the other agency; and
(ii) Whenever a request is made for a record containing information that has been classified by another agency or may be appropriate for classification under Executive Order 13525 or any other executive order concerning the classification of records, the Peace Corps shall refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that information to the agency that classified the information, should consider the information for classification, or has the primary interest in the information, as appropriate.
(3)
Notice of referral.
Whenever the Peace Corps refers all or any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, it ordinarily shall notify the requester of the referral and inform the requester of the name of the agency to which the request has been referred and the part of the request that has been referred and provide the requester with a point of contact within the receiving agency to whom the requester can speak regarding the referral.
(4)
Effect of consultations and referrals on timing of response.
All consultations and referrals will be handled according to the date the FOIA request was initially received by the Peace Corps.
(5)
Agreements with other agencies.
The Peace Corps may make agreements with other agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals for particular types of records.
[68 FR 66008, Nov. 25, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 19819, Apr. 10, 2014; 89 FR 25525, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.11
Responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
The Peace Corps, to the extent practicable, will communicate with requesters having access to the internet electronically, such as email or web portal.
(b)
Acknowledgments of requests.
The Peace Corps will acknowledge the request in writing and assign it an individualized tracking number if it will take longer than 10 working days to process. The Peace Corps will include in the acknowledgment a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of their requests.
(c)
Estimated dates of completion and interim responses.
Upon request, the Peace Corps will provide an estimated date by which the Peace Corps expects to provide a response to the requester. If a request involves a voluminous amount of material, or searches in multiple locations, the Peace Corps may provide interim responses, releasing the records on a rolling basis.
(d)
Grants of requests.
Once the Peace Corps determines it will grant a request in full or in part, it will notify the requester in writing. The Peace Corps will also inform the requester of any fees charged under § 303.16 and will disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. The Peace Corps will inform the requester of the availability of its FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.
(e)
Adverse determinations of requests.
If the Peace Corps makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect, it will notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: the requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.
(f)
Markings on released documents.
The Peace Corps will release any reasonably segregable portion of a record after redaction of the exempt portions. The amount of information redacted and the exemption under which the redaction is made shall be indicated on the released portion of the record unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption.
The location of the information redacted will also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.
(g)
Use of record exclusions.
(1) In the event that the Peace Corps identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), the Peace Corps will confer with Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy (OIP), prior to application of the exclusion.
(2) The Peace Corps, when invoking an exclusion, should document its consultation with OIP.
[89 FR 25525, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.12
Denials.
(a) A denial of a written request for a record or information that complies with the requirements of § 303.7 shall be in writing and shall include, as applicable:
(1) The name and title or position of the responsible IDA;
(2) The signature of the agency's FOIA Officer, or in the case of denials of requests concerning OIG records, the signature of the Inspector General or designee;
(3) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied in denying the request;
(4) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by redactions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(5) For any information denied under Exemption 3, the specific statute relied upon to deny the information along with a short description of the statute;
(6) A statement that the requester must appeal no later than 90 days after the date of the denial and along with instructions on how to appeal to the appellate authority. The instructions will include the appellate authority's duty title, the mailing address for the appeal, and instructions on how the requester can appeal electronically; as defined under § 303.13; and
(7) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the Peace Corps' FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by OGIS.
(b) [Reserved]
[89 FR 25525, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.13
Appeals.
(a)
Requirements for making an appeal.
A requester may appeal any adverse determinations to the Associate Director of the Office of Management or, in the case of a denial of a request for OIG records, the Inspector General. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in § 303.11(e). Requesters can submit appeals by mail or online in accordance with the following requirements or with those on the Peace Corps' website. The requester must make the appeal in writing and to be considered timely it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within 90 calendar days after the date of the response. The appeal should clearly identify the Peace Corps' determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number. To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(b)
Adjudication of appeals.
(1) The Associate Director of the Office of Management or designee, or in the case of a denial of a request for OIG records, the Inspector General or designee, will consider all appeals under this section.
(2) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.
(3) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the Associate Director of the Office of Management, or in the case of a denial of a request for OIG records, the Inspector General, will take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.
(c)
Decisions on appeals.
The Associate Director of the Office of Management or designee, or in the case of a denial of a request for OIG records, the
Inspector General or designee, will provide the decision on an appeal in writing. A decision that upholds a determination in whole or in part will contain a statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision will provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and will inform the requester of the dispute resolution services offered by the OGIS of the National Archives and Records Administration as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If a decision is remanded or modified on appeal, the Associate Director of the Office of Management or designee, or in the case of a denial of a request for OIG records, the Inspector General or designee, will notify the requester of that determination in writing. The Associate Director of the Office of Management or designee, or in the case of a denial of a request for OIG records, the Inspector General or designee, will then further process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and will respond directly to the requester.
(d)
Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by OGIS.
Dispute resolution is a voluntary process. If the Peace Corps agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
(e)
When an appeal is required.
Before seeking review by a court of a Peace Corps' adverse determination, a requester generally will first submit a timely administrative appeal.
[89 FR 25525, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.14
Confidential commercial information.
(a)
Designation of confidential commercial information.
A submitter of confidential commercial information as defined in § 303.2 will use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings, at the time of submission, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4. These designations expire 10 years after the date of the submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.
(b)
When notice to submitters is required.
(1) The Peace Corps will promptly provide written notice to the submitter of confidential commercial information whenever records containing such information are requested under the FOIA if the Peace Corps determines that it may be required to disclose the records, provided:
(i) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(ii) The Peace Corps has a reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4, but it has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure.
(2) The notice will either describe the commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, the Peace Corps may post or publish a notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure, instead of sending individual notifications.
(c)
Exceptions to submitter notice requirements.
The notice requirements of this section do not apply if:
(1) The Peace Corps determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA, and therefore will not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous. In such case, the Peace Corps will give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.
(d)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
(1) The Peace Corps will specify a reasonable time period within which the submitter may respond to the notice
referenced in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide the Peace Corps a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as basis for nondisclosure, the submitter will explain why the information constitutes a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is commercially confidential.
(3) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice will be considered to have no objection to disclosure of the information. The Peace Corps is not required to consider any information received after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by a submitter under this part may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(e)
Analysis of objections.
The Peace Corps will consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.
(f)
Notice of intent to disclose.
Whenever the Peace Corps decides to disclose information over the objection of a submitter, the Peace Corps will provide the submitter written notice, which will include:
(1) A statement of the reasons why each of the submitter's disclosure objections was not sustained;
(2) A description of the information to be disclosed or copies of the records as the Peace Corps intends to release them; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which will be a reasonable time after the notice.
(g)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, the Peace Corps will promptly notify the submitter.
(h)
Requester notification.
The Peace Corps will notify the requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.
[89 FR 25526, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.15
Preservation of records.
The Peace Corps will preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this subpart, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the National Archives and Records Administration. The Peace Corps will not dispose of or destroy records while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.
[89 FR 25527, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.16
Fees.
(a)
In general.
The Peace Corps will charge for processing requests under the FOIA in accordance with the provisions of this section and with the Guidelines of OMB. For purposes of assessing fees, the FOIA establishes three categories of requesters:
(1) Commercial use requesters;
(2) Non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requesters; and
(3) All other requesters.
(b)
Fee assessment.
Different fees are assessed depending on the requester category and approved by the FOIA Officer. Requesters may seek a fee waiver. The Peace Corps will consider individual requests for fee waivers in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (l) of this section. To resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, Peace Corps may contact a requester for additional information. The Peace Corps will ensure that searches, reviews, and duplications are conducted in the most efficient and the least expensive manner. The Peace Corps ordinarily will collect all applicable fees before sending copies of records to a requester. Requesters will pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States, or by another method as determined by the Peace Corps.
(c)
Fee charging considerations.
(1) Whether the request is a commercial use request as defined in § 303.2. The
Peace Corps' decision to place a requester in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the requester's intended use of the information. The Peace Corps will notify requesters of their placement in this category.
(2) The sum of direct costs as defined in § 303.2.
(3) The cost of duplication as defined in § 303.2.
(4) Whether the requester is an educational institution as defined in § 303.2. A requester in this fee category will show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution. The Peace Corps may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research, and the Peace Corps will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
Example 1 to paragraph (c)(4).
A request from a professor of geology at a university for records relating to soil erosion, written on letterhead of the Department of Geology, would be presumed to be from an educational institution.
Example 2 to paragraph (c)(4).
A request from the same professor of geology seeking drug information from the Food and Drug Administration in furtherance of a murder mystery he is writing would not be presumed to be an institutional request, regardless of whether it was written on institutional stationery.
Example 3 to paragraph (c)(4).
A student who makes a request in furtherance of their coursework or other school-sponsored activities and provides a copy of a course syllabus or other reasonable documentation to indicate the research purpose for the request, would qualify as part of this fee category.
(5) Whether the requester is a noncommercial scientific institution as defined in § 303.2. A requester in this category will show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further scientific research and are not for a commercial use. The Peace Corps will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(6) Whether the requester is a representative of the news media as defined in § 303.2. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast “news” to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, the Peace Corps may also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. The Peace Corps will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
(7) The cost of the review as defined in § 303.2. Review time includes processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including the process of redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review time also includes time spent both obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure made by a confidential commercial information submitter under § 303.14, but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(8) The cost of the time involved in the search as defined in § 303.2. Search time includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
(d)
Charging fees.
In responding to FOIA requests, the Peace Corps will charge the following fees unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under paragraph (l) of this section. Because the fee amounts provided under paragraph (m) of this section already
account for the direct costs associated with a given fee type, the Peace Corps will not add any additional costs to charges calculated under this section.
(1)
Search.
(i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. The Peace Corps will charge search fees for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (e) of this section. The Peace Corps may properly charge for time spent searching even if they do not locate any responsive records or if they determine that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.
(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fees will be charged.
(iii) The Peace Corps will charge the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. The Peace Corps will notify the requester of the costs associated with creating such a program, and the requester will agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.
(iv) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by the Peace Corps at a Federal records center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), agencies will charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
(2)
Duplication.
The Peace Corps will charge duplication fees to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (e) of this section. The Peace Corps will honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where the Peace Corps can readily reproduce it in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, the Peace Corps will provide one copy per request at no charge up to 100 pages. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other media, the Peace Corps will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents will be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester will also pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, the Peace Corps will charge the direct costs.
(3)
Review.
The Peace Corps will charge review fees to requesters who make commercial use requests. Review fees will be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record,
i.e.,
the review conducted by the Peace Corps to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, if a particular exemption is deemed to no longer apply, any costs associated with the Peace Corps' re-review of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review fees will be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(e)
Restrictions on charging fees.
(1) When the Peace Corps determines that a requester is an educational institution, non-commercial scientific institution, or representative of the news media, and the records are not sought for commercial use, it will not charge search fees.
(2)(i) If the Peace Corps fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits in which to respond to a request, it may not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in (e)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section.
(ii) If the Peace Corps has determined that unusual circumstances as defined in § 303.2 apply and the Peace Corps provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional 10 days.
(iii) If the Peace Corps has determined that unusual circumstances as defined in § 303.2 apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, the Peace Corps may charge search fees, or, in the case of requesters described in paragraph (e)(1)
of this section, may charge duplication fees, if the following steps are taken: the Peace Corps will have provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA; and the Peace Corps will have discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5. U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii). If this exception is satisfied, the Peace Corps may charge all applicable fees incurred in the processing of the request.
(iv) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(3) No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(4) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, the Peace Corps will provide without charge:
(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and
(ii) The first 2 hours of search.
(5) No fee will be charged when the total fee, after deducting the 100 free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first 2 hours of search, is equal to or less than $25.
(f)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
(1) When the Peace Corps determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, the Peace Corps will notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review, or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the Peace Corps will advise the requester accordingly. If the request is not for noncommercial use, the notice will specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory entitlements of 100 pages of duplication at no charge and, if the requester is charged search fees, 2 hours of search time at no charge, and will advise the requester whether those entitlements have been provided.
(2) If the Peace Corps notifies the requester that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a noncommercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the requester's statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The requester will provide the commitment or designation in writing, and will, when applicable, designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay. The Peace Corps will not accept payments in installments.
(3) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the Peace Corps estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the Peace Corps will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. The Peace Corps will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
(4) The Peace Corps will make available their FOIA Public Liaison or other FOIA professional to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(g)
Charges for other services.
Although not required to provide special services, if the Peace Corps chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service will be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.
(h)
Charging interest.
The Peace Corps may charge interest on any unpaid bill
starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the billing date until payment is received by the Peace Corps. The Peace Corps will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(i)
Aggregating requests.
When the Peace Corps reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, the Peace Corps may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. The Peace Corps may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, the Peace Corps will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters cannot be aggregated.
(j)
Advance payments.
(1) For requests other than those described in paragraph (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this section, the Peace Corps may not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (
i.e.,
payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.
(2) When the Peace Corps determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. The Peace Corps may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.
(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to the Peace Corps within 30 calendar days of the billing date, the Peace Corps may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and the Peace Corps may require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before the Peace Corps begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. Where the Peace Corps has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.
(4) In cases in which the Peace Corps requires advance payment, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within 30 calendar days after the date of the Peace Corps' fee determination, the request will be closed.
(k)
Other statutes specifically providing for fees.
The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires the Peace Corps to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances where records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily-based fee schedule program, the Peace Corps will inform the requester of the contact information for that program.
(l)
Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.
(1) Requesters may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written application demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(2) The Peace Corps will furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a reduced rate when it determines, based on all available information, that the factors described in paragraphs (l)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section are satisfied:
(i) Disclosure of the requested information would shed light on the operations or activities of the government. The subject of the request will concern identifiable operations or activities of
the Federal Government with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated; and
(ii) Disclosure of the requested information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:
(A) Disclosure of the requested records will be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding; and
(B) The disclosure will contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as the requester's ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public will be considered. The Peace Corps will presume that a representative of the news media will satisfy this consideration.
(iii) The disclosure will not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. To determine whether disclosure of the requested information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, the Peace Corps will consider the following criteria:
(A) The Peace Corps will identify whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, or profit interest. Requesters will be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration; and
(B) If there is an identified commercial interest, the Peace Corps will determine whether that is the primary interest furthered by the request. A waiver or reduction of fees is justified when the requirements of paragraphs (l)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are satisfied and any commercial interest is not the primary interest furthered by the request. The Peace Corps ordinarily will presume that when a news media requester has satisfied factors of paragraphs (l)(2)(i) and (ii), the request is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return will not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(3) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver will be granted for those records.
(4) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to the Peace Corps and should address the criteria referenced under paragraph (1) of this section. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester will pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
(5) These fee waiver/reduction provisions are subject to appeal in the same manner as appeals from denial under § 303.13.
(m)
Minimal amount.
No fee will be charged under this section unless the cost of routine collection and processing of the fee payment is likely to exceed the average cost of processing a payment.
(n)
Agreement to pay fees.
Requesters must agree to pay all fees charged for services associated with their requests.
(o)
Charging interest.
Interest may be charged to those requesters who fail to pay the fees charged. Interest will be assessed on the amount billed, starting on the 31st day following the day on which the billing was sent. The rate charged will be as prescribed in 31 U.S.C. 3717.
(p)
Nonpayment of fees.
The Peace Corps is not required to process a request for a requester who has not paid FOIA fees owed to another Federal agency.
(q)
Multiple copies.
The Peace Corps reserves the right to charge for multiple copies of any document that will be provided to any one requester or to require that special arrangements for duplication be made in the case of
bound volumes or other records representing unusual problems of handling or reproduction.
[89 FR 25527, Apr. 11, 2024]
§ 303.17
Procedures for responding to a subpoena.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
(1) This section sets forth the procedures to be followed in proceedings in which the Peace Corps is not a party, whenever a subpoena, order, or other demand (collectively referred to as a “demand”) of a court or other authority is issued for:
(i) The production or disclosure of any material contained in the files of the Peace Corps;
(ii) The production or disclosure of any information relating to material contained in the files of the Peace Corps;
(iii) The production or disclosure of any information or material acquired by any person while such person was an employee of the Peace Corps as a part of the performance of their official duties or because of their official status, or
(iv) The production of an employee of the Peace Corps for the deposition or an appearance as a witness in a legal action or proceeding.
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “employee of the Peace Corps” includes all officers, employees, volunteers, and trainees of the Peace Corps appointed by, or subject to the supervision, jurisdiction or, control of, the Director of the Peace Corps, including personal services contractors. Also, for purposes of this section, records of the Peace Corps do not include records of the Office of Inspector General.
(3) This section is intended to provide instructions regarding the internal operations of the Peace Corps, and is not intended, and does not and may not be relied upon, to create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the Peace Corps.
(4) This section applies to:
(i) State and local court, administrative and legislative proceedings; and
(ii) Federal court and administrative proceedings.
(5) This section does not apply to:
(i) Congressional requests or subpoenas for testimony or documents; and
(ii) Employees or former employees making appearances solely in their private capacity in legal or administrative proceedings that do not relate to the Peace Corps (such as cases arising out of traffic accidents or domestic relations). Any questions regarding whether the appearance relates solely to the employee's or former employee's private capacity should be referred to the Office of the General Counsel.
(6) Nothing in this section otherwise permits disclosure of information by the Peace Corps except as is provided by statute or other applicable law.
(b)
Procedure in the event of a demand for production or disclosure.
(1) No employee or former employee of the Peace Corps shall, in response to a demand of a court or other authority set forth in paragraph (a) of this section produce any material, disclose any information, or appear in any proceeding, described in paragraph (a) of this section without the approval of the General Counsel or designee.
(2) Whenever an employee or former employee of the Peace Corps receives a demand for the production of material or the disclosure of information described in paragraph (a) of this section they shall immediately notify and provide a copy of the demand to the General Counsel or designee. The General Counsel, or designee, shall be furnished by the party causing the demand to be issued or served a written summary of the information sought, its relevance to the proceeding in connection with which it was served, and why the information sought is unavailable by any other means or from any other sources.
(3) The General Counsel, or designee, in consultation with appropriate Peace Corps officials, including the Peace Corps' FOIA Officer, or designee, and in light of the considerations listed in paragraph (d) of this section, will determine whether the person on whom the demand was served should respond to the demand.
(4) To the extent deemed necessary or appropriate, the General Counsel or designee may also require from the party causing such demand to be issued
or served a plan of all reasonably foreseeable demands, including but not limited to names of all employees and former employees from whom discovery will be sought, areas of inquiry, length of time of proceedings requiring oral testimony and identification of documents to be used or whose production is sought.
(c)
Considerations in determining whether production or disclosure should be made pursuant to a demand.
(1) In deciding whether to make disclosures pursuant to a demand, the General Counsel or designee, may consider, among things:
(i) Whether such disclosure is appropriate under the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand arose; and
(ii) Whether disclosure is appropriate under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege.
(2) Among the demands in response to which disclosure will not be made are those demands with respect to which any of the following factors exist:
(i) Disclosure would violate a statute or a rule of procedure;
(ii) Disclosure would violate the privacy rights of an individual;
(iii) Disclosure would violate a specific regulation;
(iv) Disclosure would reveal classified information, unless appropriately declassified by the originating agency;
(v) Disclosure would reveal trade secrets or proprietary information without the owner's consent;
(vi) Disclosure would otherwise adversely affect the interests of the United States or the Peace Corps; or
(vii) Disclosure would impair an ongoing Inspector General or Department of Justice investigation.
[68 FR 66008, Nov. 25, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 19820, Apr. 10, 2014. Redesignated and amended at 89 FR 25525, 25530 Apr. 11, 2024; 89 FR 50522, June 14, 2024]
§ 303.18
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the FOIA.
[89 FR 25531, Apr. 11, 2024]
Pt. 304

# PART 304—CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT

# General Provisions
Sec.
304.1
Scope; definitions.

# Procedures
304.2
Administrative claim; when presented; appropriate Peace Corps Office.
304.3
Administrative claim; who may file.
304.4
Administrative claim; evidence and information to be submitted.
304.5
Investigations.
304.6
Claims investigation.
304.7
Authority to adjust, determine, compromise, and settle claims.
304.8
Limitations on authority.
304.9
Referral to the Department of Justice.
304.10
Review of claim.
304.11
Final denial of claim.
304.12
Action on approved claim.

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 2672; 22 U.S.C. 2503(b); E.O. 12137, as amended.

# Source:
34 FR 5840, Mar. 28, 1969, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 304.1
Scope; definitions.
(a) This subpart applies to claims asserted under the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, accruing on or after January 18, 1967, for money damages against the United States for injury to or loss of property or personal injury or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of an officer or employee of the Peace Corps, a person serving the Peace Corps under invitational travel orders, or a Peace Corps Volunteer or trainee while acting within the scope of his office or employment.
(b) This subpart is not applicable to claims arising in a foreign country; it is applicable to claims arising in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
(c) This subpart is issued subject to and consistent with applicable regulations on administrative claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act issued by the Attorney General (28 CFR part 14).
(d) For the purposes of this subpart, the term “General Counsel” means the General Counsel of the Peace Corps or his designee.
[34 FR 5840, Mar. 28, 1969, as amended at 72 FR 4205, Jan. 30, 2007]

# Procedures
§ 304.2
Administrative claim; when presented; appropriate Peace Corps Office.
(a) For purposes of this subpart, a claim shall be deemed to have been presented when the Peace Corps receives, at a place designated in paragraph (b) of this section, an executed “Claim for Damages or Injury,” Standard Form 95, or other written notification of an incident, accompanied by a claim for money damages in a sum certain for injury to or loss of property, for personal injury, or for death alleged to have occurred by reason of the incident. A claim which should have been presented to the Peace Crops, but which was mistakenly addressed to or filed with another Federal agency, is deemed to have been presented to the Peace Corps as of the date that the claim is received by the Peace Corps. If a claim is mistakenly addressed to or filed with the Peace Corps, the Peace Corps shall forthwith transfer it to the appropriate Federal agency, if ascertainable, or return it to the claimant.
(b) A claimant shall mail or deliver his claim to the General Counsel, Peace Corps, 1111 20th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20526.
[34 FR 5840, Mar. 28, 1969, as amended at 72 FR 4206, Jan. 30, 2007]
§ 304.3
Administrative claim; who may file.
(a) A claim for injury to or loss of property may be presented by the owner of the property, his duly authorized agent, or his legal representative.
(b) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person, his duly authorized agent, or his legal representative.
(c) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate, or by any other person legally entitled to assert such a claim in accordance with applicable State law.
(d) A claim for loss wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer. Claim for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer or the insured individually, as their respective interests appear, or jointly. Whenever an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, he shall present with his claim appropriate evidence that he has the rights of a subrogee.
(e) A claim presented by an agent or legal representative shall be presented in the name of the claimant, be signed by the agent or legal representative, show the title or legal capacity of the person signing, and be accompanied by evidence of his authority to present a claim on behalf of the claimant.
§ 304.4
Administrative claim; evidence and information to be submitted.
(a)
Personal injury.
In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) A written report by his attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed or designated by the Peace Corps or another Federal agency. A copy of the report of the examining physician shall be made available to the claimant upon the claimant's written request provided that he has, upon request, furnished the report referred to in the first sentence of this paragraph and has made or agrees to make available to the Peace Corps any other physician's report previously or thereafter made of the physical or mental condition which is the subject matter of his claim.
(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.
(3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for such treatment.
(4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether he is a
full-or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost;
(5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.
(6) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
(b)
Death.
In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) An authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing cause of death, date of death, and age of the decedent.
(2) Decedent's employment or occupation at the time of death, including his monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of his last employment or occupation.
(3) Full names, addresses, birth dates, kinship, and marital status of decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent for support upon decedent at the time of his death.
(4) Degree of support afforded by decedent to each survivor dependent upon him for support at the time of his death.
(5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition before death.
(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.
(7) If damages for pain and suffering prior to death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain, and decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death.
(8) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or the damages claimed.
(c)
Property damage.
In support of a claim for injury to or loss of property, real or personal, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information.
(1) Proof of ownership.
(2) A detailed statement of the amount claimed with respect to each item of property.
(3) Two or more itemized written estimates of the cost of such repairs and any itemized receipt of payment for necessary repairs.
(4) A statement listing date of purchase, purchase price, and salvage value where repair is not economical.
(5) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the injury to or loss of property or the damages claimed.
§ 304.5
Investigations.
The Peace Corps may investigate, or the General Counsel may request any other Federal agency to investigate, a claim filed under this subpart.
§ 304.6
Claims investigation.
(a) When a claim has been filed with the Peace Corps, the General Counsel will send a copy of the claim to the head of the office concerned and ask him to designate one employee of that office who shall act as, and who shall be referred to herein as, the Claims Investigating Officer for that particular claim. The Claims Investigating Officer shall, with the advice of the General Counsel, where necessary:
(1) Investigate as completely as is practicable the nature and circumstances of the occurrence causing the loss or damage of the claimant's property.
(2) Ascertain the extent of loss or damage to the claimant's property.
(3) Assemble the necessary forms with required data contained therein.
(4) Prepare a brief statement setting forth the facts relative to the claim (in the case of motor vehicle accidents, facts should be recorded on Standard Form 91-A), a statement whether the claim satisfies the requirements of this subpart, and a recommendation as to the amount to be paid in settlement of the claim.
(5) The head of the office concerned will be responsible for assuring that all necessary forms, statements, and all supporting papers have been procured for the file and will transmit the entire file to the General Counsel.
§ 304.7
Authority to adjust, determine, compromise, and settle claims.
The authority to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, compromise and settle claims of less than $5,000 under 28 U.S.C. 2672, and this subpart, rests with the Chief Financial Officer, as the designee of the head of the agency. For claims under 28 U.S.C. 2672 and this subpart, subject to § 304.8, the Director of the Peace Corps retains authority to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, compromise and settle claims of $5,000 or more.
[72 FR 4206, Jan. 30, 2007]
§ 304.8
Limitations on authority.
(a) An award, compromise, or settlement of a claim under section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, and this subpart in excess of $25,000 may be effected only with the prior written approval of the Attorney General or his designee. For the purpose of this paragraph, a principal claim and any derivative or subrogated claim shall be treated as a single claim.
(b) An administrative claim may be adjusted, determined, compromised, or settled only after consultation with the Department of Justice when, in the opinion of the General Counsel:
(1) A new precedent or a new point of law is involved; or
(2) A question of policy is or may be involved; or
(3) The United States is or may be entitled to indemnity or contribution from a third party, and the Peace Corps is unable to adjust the third party claim; or
(4) The compromise of a particular claim, as a practical matter, will or may control the disposition of a related claim in which the amount to be paid may exceed $25,000.
(c) An administrative claim may be adjusted, determined, compromised, or settled only after consultation with the Department of Justice when the Peace Corps is informed or is otherwise aware that the United States or an officer, employee, agent, or cost-type contractor of the United States is involved in litigation based on a claim arising out of the same incident or transaction.
§ 304.9
Referral to the Department of Justice.
When Department of Justice approval or consultation is required under § 304.8, the referral or request shall be transmitted to the Department of Justice by the General Counsel.
[72 FR 4206, Jan. 30, 2007]
§ 304.10
Review of claim.
(a) Upon receipt of the claim file from the head of the office concerned, the General Counsel will ascertain that all supporting papers are contained in the file.
(b) After legal review and recommendation by the General Counsel, the Director of the Peace Corps will make a written determination on the claim, unless the claim is worth less than $5,000, in which case the Chief Financial Officer will make the written determination.
[34 FR 5840, Mar. 28, 1969, as amended at 73 FR 21528, Apr. 22, 2008; 73 FR 49943, Aug. 25, 2008]
§ 304.11
Final denial of claim.
The General Counsel will send notification of the final denial of an administrative claim to the claimant, his attorney, or legal representative by certified or registered mail. The notification of final denial may include a statement of the reasons for the denial and shall include a statement that, if the claimant is dissatisfied with the Peace Corps action, he may file suit in an appropriate U.S. District Court not later than 6 months after the date of mailing of the notification.
§ 304.12
Action on approved claim.
(a) Payment of a claim approved under this subpart is contingent on claimant's execution of (1) a “Claim for Damage or Injury,” Standard From 95; and (2) a “Voucher for Payment,” Standard Form 1145, as appropriate. When a claimant is represented by an attorney, the voucher for payment shall designate the claimant and his attorney as copayees, and the check shall be delivered to the attorney, whose address shall appear on the voucher.
(b) Acceptance by the claimant, his agent, or legal representative of an
award, compromise, or settlement made under section 2672 or 2677 of title 28, United States Code, is final and conclusive on the claimant, his agent or legal representative, and any other person on whose behalf or for whose benefit the claim has been presented, and constitutes a complete release of any claim against the United States and against any officer or employee of the Government whose act or omission gave rise to the claim, by reason of the same subject matter.
Pt. 305

# PART 305—ELIGIBILITY AND STANDARDS FOR PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEER SERVICE
Sec.
305.1
Purpose and general guidelines.
305.2
Eligibility.
305.3
Selection standards.
305.4
Medical status eligibility standards.
305.5
Legal status eligibility standards.
305.6
Applicants with an intelligence background.
305.7
Special circumstances.
305.8
Background investigation.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2503, 2504 2521; 29 U.S.C. 794; E.O. 12137, 44 FR 29023, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 389; E.O. 13160, 65 FR 39775, 3 CFR, 2000 Comp., p. 1461.

# Source:
82 FR 1188, Jan. 5, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 305.1
Purpose and general guidelines.
This part states the requirements for eligibility for Peace Corps Volunteer service and the factors considered in the assessment and selection of eligible applicants for Peace Corps Volunteer service.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(1)
Applicant
means an individual for enrollment as a Volunteer, who has completed and submitted the Peace Corps Volunteer application form.
(2)
Trainee
means an individual for enrollment as a Volunteer during any period of training occurring prior to such enrollment.
(3)
Volunteer
means an individual who has taken the prescribed oath and enrolled for service in the Peace Corps.
(4)
Enrollment
means the act by which an individual becomes a Volunteer upon successful completion of training and taking the prescribed oath of office pursuant to Section 5 of the Peace Corps Act, 22 U.S.C. 2504.
(5)
Dependent
means an individual for whom an applicant or Volunteer has a legal or familial obligation to provide financial support.
(6)
Family member
means any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the applicant or Volunteer is the equivalent of a family relationship.
(b)
Selection.
Invitations to serve in the Peace Corps are the result of a highly competitive application process. Many more individuals apply for Peace Corps Volunteer service than can be accepted. Because the Peace Corps cannot accept all eligible and qualified applicants who wish to serve, it evaluates applicants to select the best qualified among eligible applicants. The Peace Corps determines Applicants' eligibility, and assesses their relative skills, qualifications, and personal attributes, such as motivation, aptitude, fitness for service, emotional maturity, adaptability, productive competence, and ability to serve effectively as a Volunteer in a foreign country and culture.
(c)
Authority.
Under section 5(a) of the Peace Corps Act, 22 U.S.C. 2504(a), the President may enroll in the Peace Corps for service abroad qualified citizens and nationals of the United States. The terms and conditions of the enrollment of Volunteers are exclusively those set forth in the Peace Corps Act and those consistent therewith which the President may prescribe. The President has delegated his authority under section 5(a) of the Peace Corps Act to the Director of the Peace Corps pursuant to Executive Order 12137 (May 16, 1979), as amended.
(d)
Non-discrimination.
The Peace Corps does not discriminate against any person on account of race, color, religion, sex (including but not limited to gender identity and gender expression), national origin, age (40 and over), disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy, marital status, parental status, political affiliation, union membership, genetic information, or history of participation in the EEO process, any grievance procedure or any authorized complaint procedure. Anyone who feels he
or she has been discriminated against should contact the Office of Civil Rights and Diversity, 202.692.2139,
ocrd@peacecorps.gov,
Peace Corps, 1111 20th Street NW., Washington, DC 20526.
(e)
Failure to disclose requested information.
In order for the Peace Corps to be able to make appropriate selection and placement decisions, it is critical that Applicants provide complete and accurate information throughout the application process, including information provided for a mandatory background investigation. The Peace Corps may disqualify an Applicant or separate a Volunteer or Trainee from Peace Corps service at any time if the Peace Corps determines that the Applicant, Volunteer, or Trainee provided materially false, misleading, inaccurate or incomplete information during the Peace Corps application process.
§ 305.2
Eligibility.
In order to be eligible for enrollment as a Volunteer, Applicants must meet mandatory citizenship and age requirements.
(a)
Citizenship.
The Applicant must be a citizen or national of the United States prior to entering on duty as a Trainee.
(b)
Age.
The Applicant must be at least 18 years old at the time of entry on duty as a Trainee.
§ 305.3
Selection standards.
(a)
General.
To qualify for selection for overseas service as a Volunteer, an Applicant must demonstrate that he or she is suitable, possessing the requisite personal and professional attributes required for Peace Corps service generally, and for the particular Volunteer assignment for which he or she is considered. The Peace Corps assesses each Applicant's personal, professional, educational, and legal qualifications in order to select those Applicants most likely to be successful in a Peace Corps assignment, serving under conditions of hardship if necessary to achieve the goals of the Peace Corps. Meeting these qualifications does not in and of itself entitle any individual to serve in the Peace Corps. The Peace Corps endeavors to select the best qualified individuals from among all eligible Applicants.
(b)
Personal attributes.
Applicants must adequately demonstrate the following personal attributes to Peace Corps:
(1)
Motivation.
A sincere desire to carry out the goals of Peace Corps service, and a commitment to serve a full term as a Volunteer.
(2)
Productive competence.
The intelligence and professional experience or educational background to meet the needs of the individual's assignment.
(3)
Emotional maturity and adaptability.
The maturity, flexibility, cultural sensitivity, and self-sufficiency to adapt successfully to life in another culture, and to interact and communicate with other people regardless of cultural, social, and economic differences.
(4)
Skills.
In addition to any educational, professional or other qualifications and prerequisites that an individual must possess in order to be selected for a given assignment, a Trainee must demonstrate competence in the following areas by the end of pre-service training:
(i)
Language.
The ability to communicate effectively in the appropriate language or languages of the country of service with the fluency required to meet the needs of the overseas assignment.
(ii)
Technical competence.
Proficiency in the technical skills needed to carry out the Trainee's assignment as a Volunteer.
(iii)
Knowledge.
Adequate knowledge of the culture and history of the country of assignment to ensure a successful adjustment to, and acceptance by, the host country society, as well as an appropriate understanding of the history and government of the United States which qualifies the individual to represent the United States abroad.
(c)
Failure to meet standards.
Failure to meet initial selection standards, failure to attain any of the selection standards by the completion of training, or failure to maintain these standards during service, may be grounds for de-selection and disqualification from Peace Corps service.
§ 305.4
Medical status eligibility standard.
(a)
Requirements.
Under the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2504(e)), the Peace Corps is responsible for ensuring that Peace Corps Volunteers receive all necessary or appropriate health care during their service. To ensure that the Peace Corps will be capable of doing so, Applicants must be medically qualified for Peace Corps Volunteer service. An Applicant who is otherwise qualified must meet the following requirements:
(1) The Applicant, with or without reasonable accommodation, removal of architectural, communication or transportation barriers, or the provision of auxiliary aids or services, must have the physical and mental capacity required to meet the essential eligibility requirements for a Volunteer. In this context, the essential eligibility requirements for a Volunteer include, without limitation, the capability to:
(i) Live and work independently in an isolated location overseas at the same socio-economic level and in similar conditions as members of the community to which the Applicant is assigned;
(ii) Perform the job to which the Applicant is assigned; and
(iii) Complete a specified tour of service without undue disruption.
(2) The Peace Corps must be capable of providing the Applicant with such health care as the Peace Corps deems to be necessary or appropriate.
(3) The Applicant must not pose a direct threat (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section).
(b)
Individualized assessment.
In determining whether an Applicant is medically qualified, an individualized assessment is required regarding each of the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Direct threat.
(1) A “direct threat” is a significant risk to the health or safety of others that cannot be eliminated by a reasonable accommodation to policies, practices or procedures, removal of architectural, communication or transportation barriers, or the provision of auxiliary aids or services.
(2) In determining whether an applicant poses a direct threat, the Peace Corps will make an individualized assessment based on reasonable judgment that relies on current medical knowledge or on the best available objective evidence to ascertain:
(i) The nature, duration and severity of the risk;
(ii) The probability that the potential injury will actually occur; and
(iii) Whether reasonable accommodations, removal of architectural, communication or transportation barriers, or the provision of auxiliary aids or services will mitigate the risk.
(d)
Reasonable accommodation.
(1) The term “accommodation” means modifications to the Peace Corps' policies, practices or procedures.
(2) An accommodation is not reasonable if:
(i) It would modify the essential eligibility requirements for a Volunteer;
(ii) It would modify, among other things, the Applicant's Volunteer assignment or the Peace Corps' medical program in a way that would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of the service, program, or activity; or
(iii) It would impose an undue financial and administrative burden on the operations of the Peace Corps, including its medical program.
(3) In determining whether an accommodation would impose an undue financial and administrative burden on the operations of the Peace Corps, the Peace Corps may take into account, among other things:
(i) The size and composition of the Peace Corps staff at the post of assignment;
(ii) The adequacy of local medical facilities and the availability of other medical facilities;
(iii) The nature and cost of the accommodation compared to the overall number of Volunteers and the overall size of the Peace Corps budget; and
(iv) The capacities of the host country agency and of the host community to which the Applicant would be assigned.
(e)
Medical status eligibility review.
(1) An Applicant who is determined by medical screening staff not to be medically qualified for Peace Corps Volunteer service may request review of that decision by submitting any relevant information to the Office of Medical
Services (OMS). The information submitted by the Applicant will be reviewed by a physician, and, unless the physician determines that the Applicant is medically qualified, by a Pre-Service Review Board (PSRB) composed of medical personnel in OMS and advised by the General Counsel. Procedures for such review are subject to approval by the General Counsel.
(2) The PSRB will include as voting members at least one physician as well as other medical professionals in OMS. In any case involving review of issues involving mental health, at least one mental health professional from the Counseling and Outreach Unit will also participate as a voting member.
(3) The decision of the PSRB will be reviewed by the General Counsel for legal sufficiency. Subject to that review, it will constitute the final agency action.
§ 305.5
Legal status eligibility standard.
(a)
General requirements.
The existence of an arrest or conviction record may, but will not automatically, exclude an Applicant from consideration for Peace Corps service. The Peace Corps will consider the nature of the offense, how long ago the offense occurred, whether the Applicant was acquitted of the offense, the terms of any applicable parole or probation, and other relevant facts or indications of rehabilitation.
(b)
Drug and alcohol related offenses.
(1) An Applicant with any drug-related conviction, with a conviction for public intoxication, driving under the influence (DUI), or driving while intoxicated (DWI), with a conviction for reckless driving after having been initially charged with DUI or DWI, or with a similar alcohol-related conviction, is not eligible to have his or her application for Peace Corps service considered until 12 months has passed from the date of the incident.
(2) An Applicant who, at any time on or prior to the day of departure for Peace Corps service, is arrested for any drug offense or for public intoxication, DUI, DWI or any similar alcohol-related offense will have any pending application or invitation for Peace Corps service withdrawn. If the charges are dismissed, an Applicant whose application or invitation for Peace Corps service was terminated may immediately reapply. If the applicant is convicted of the offense, he or she may reapply after 12 months from the date of the incident.
(c)
Review process.
An Applicant who is rejected for a Volunteer position because of an arrest or conviction may request a review of that decision by submitting any relevant information to the Associate Director of the Office of Volunteer Recruitment and Selection (VRS). The Associate Director will review the information submitted and consult with the General Counsel. The decision of the Associate Director will be the final agency decision. The Associate Director may delegate authority to conduct such a review to another senior member of VRS, but not to the supervisor of the office making the original eligibility determination.
(d)
Subsequent application.
An Applicant rejected for service due to failure to meet the legal status eligibility standard may reapply at a later date, but not sooner than 12 months after the final agency decision.
§ 305.6
Applicants with an intelligence background.
(a)
General.
It has been the longstanding policy of the Peace Corps to exclude from Volunteer service any individuals who have engaged in intelligence activity or related work or who have been employed by or connected with an intelligence agency, either for a specific period of time or permanently (depending on the agency). This policy is founded on the premise that it is crucial to the Peace Corps in carrying out its mission that there be a complete and total separation of Peace Corps from the intelligence activities of the United States Government or any foreign government, both in reality and appearance. Any semblance of a connection between the Peace Corps and the intelligence community would seriously compromise the ability of the Peace Corps to develop and maintain the trust and confidence of the people of the host countries. To ensure that there is not the slightest basis for the appearance of any connection between the Peace Corps and the
intelligence community, this policy contains certain temporary and permanent bars to Peace Corps service. Serious doubts about an Applicant's connection with intelligence activities are to be resolved in favor of exclusion.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Intelligence activity
includes any activities or specialized training involving or related to the clandestine collection of information, or the analysis or dissemination of such information, intended for use by the United States Government or any foreign government in formulating or implementing political or military policy in regard to other countries. The term “intelligence activity” includes any involvement in covert actions designed to influence events in foreign countries. The fact that the name of an employer or the description of a person's work uses or does not use the term “intelligence” does not, in and of itself, mean that the person has or has not engaged in intelligence activity or related work.
(2)
Intelligence agency
includes:
(i) Any agency, division of an agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government that is a member of the United States Intelligence Community; and
(ii) Any other agency, division of an agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government or any foreign government, a substantial part of whose mission has been determined by the General Counsel to include intelligence activities.
(3)
Employment, employee or employed
refer to the existence of a relationship of employer and employee, whether full-time or part-time, permanent or temporary, whether or not the individual is engaged in intelligence activity for an employer, without regard to the length of time the relationship existed or is proposed to exist, and includes individuals performing duties as volunteers, fellows, interns, consultants, personal services contractors, contractors (non-personal services contractors), and employees of contractors who were assigned to work for an intelligence agency or to engage in intelligence activities. Employees of contractors who were or are not themselves assigned to work for an Intelligence Agency or to engage in intelligence activities are not considered to have been or to be employed by an intelligence agency.
(c)
Employment by an intelligence agency or engagement in intelligence activities.
(1) An Applicant currently or formerly employed by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is permanently ineligible for Peace Corps Volunteer service.
(2) An Applicant who has been employed by an intelligence agency other than the CIA is ineligible for a minimum of 10 years from the last day of employment by such intelligence agency. This bar on an Applicant who is or was employed by an intelligence agency applies whether or not the Applicant was engaged in intelligence activity for the intelligence agency.
(3) An Applicant who has been engaged in intelligence activities is ineligible for service as a Volunteer for a period of 10 years from the last date on which the Applicant engaged in intelligence activities.
(4) An Applicant may be ineligible for service for a period in excess of 10 years if the General Counsel determines that the Applicant's background or work history with regard to intelligence activities warrants such action.
(d)
Relationship to intelligence agency or activity.
(1) An Applicant whose background discloses a relationship to an intelligence agency or intelligence activity may be ineligible to serve as a Peace Corps Volunteer. The term “relationship” means any association with an intelligence agency or with an intelligence activity, if such association could be the basis for an inference or the appearance that an Applicant was engaged in an intelligence activity. The association could include, but not be limited to, one based upon a familial, personal or financial connection to an intelligence agency or with an intelligence activity.
(2) Determinations of the eligibility or periods of ineligibility of such Applicants will be made by the General Counsel on a case by case basis using the criteria set forth below. Examples of the type of relationships among others that could lead to ineligibility are Applicants whose spouses, domestic
partners, or parents are or were involved in actual intelligence activities, or members of the immediate family of prominent highly placed officials in an intelligence agency who might be the target of harassment or violence overseas as the result of family connections. Employment by an organization that has been funded by an intelligence agency may also lead to ineligibility.
(3) In determining whether an Applicant's relationship to an intelligence agency or intelligence activity makes the Applicant ineligible for service, or in determining the duration of any ineligibility, the General Counsel will consider the following factors as appropriate:
(i) Nature of the relationship.
(ii) The intelligence agency with which the Applicant has the relationship.
(iii) Duration of the relationship.
(iv) Length of time that has elapsed since the last connection to the intelligence agency.
(v) Where the intelligence activity or work was performed.
(vi) Nature of the connection with intelligence activity or work.
(vii) Whether or not the intelligence activity or work involved contact with foreign nationals.
(viii) Whether the connection was known or unknown to the Applicant at the time it occurred.
(ix) Training received, if any.
(x) Regularity of the contact with foreign nationals, and nature of duties, if any.
(xi) Public knowledge of the activity or connection.
(xii) Any other information which bears on the relationship of the Applicant to an intelligence agency or intelligence activity.
(e)
Determination.
VRS is responsible for the initial screening of Peace Corps Volunteer applications for compliance with the provisions of this policy. In cases where that office is unable to make a decision regarding the eligibility of an Applicant under this policy, the individual's application will be referred to the General Counsel, who will make the determination on eligibility.
(f)
Appeal.
VRS will inform all Applicants promptly and in writing of any decision to disqualify them based on an intelligence background and the reasons for that decision. Applicants have 15 days from the date of receipt of the letter from VRS to appeal the decision to the Director of the Peace Corps. The decision of the Director of the Peace Corps will be the final agency decision.
(g)
Post Peace Corps employment by United States intelligence agencies.
Pursuant to agreements between the Peace Corps and certain intelligence agencies, those intelligence agencies will not employ former Volunteers for a specified period after the end of their Peace Corps service and will not use former Volunteers for certain purposes or in certain positions. Information regarding such agreements may be obtained from the Office of the General Counsel.
§ 305.7
Special circumstances.
(a)
Couples.
Two Applicants who are married to one another or two unmarried Applicants who are in a same-sex or opposite-sex domestic partnership or other committed relationship are eligible to apply for service as a couple. In the case of an unmarried couple, each member of the couple must provide a sworn statement, in a form acceptable to the Peace Corps, attesting to their domestic partnership status or committed relationship (as the case may be) and their request to be considered for assignment as a couple. In all cases, both members of the couple must apply and qualify for assignment at the same location.
(b)
Serving with dependents and other family members.
In general, dependents and other family members may not accompany a Volunteer during service. However, the Peace Corps may from time to time make exceptions either on a case-by-case basis or for particular categories of Volunteers to the extent permitted by Federal law.
(c)
Military service.
The Peace Corps welcomes applications from veterans, reservists, and active duty military personnel who are interested in Peace Corps service after completion of their
military service. After receiving an invitation for Peace Corps service, applicants with reserve obligations are reminded to comply with all requirements to notify their reserve component that they will be unavailable for drills and annual training because of their Peace Corps service. Such applicants are urged to obtain written confirmation from their reserve component that they have complied with these requirements.
§ 305.8
Background investigation.
Section 22 of the Peace Corps Act requires that each Applicant be investigated to ensure that enrollment of the Applicant as a Volunteer is consistent with the national interest. The Peace Corps therefore obtains an appropriate background investigation for all Applicants who are invited to serve in the Peace Corps. Information revealed by the background investigation may be grounds for disqualification from Peace Corps service. Under the Peace Corps Act, if a background investigation regarding an Applicant develops any data reflecting that the Applicant is of questionable loyalty or is a questionable security risk, the Peace Corps must refer the matter to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a full field investigation. The results of that full field investigation will be furnished to the Peace Corps for information and appropriate action.
Pt. 306

# PART 306—VOLUNTEER DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINT PROCEDURE

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
306.1
Purpose.
306.2
Policy.
306.3
Definitions.
306.4
Coverage.
306.5
Representation.
306.6
Freedom from retaliation.
306.7
Review of allegations of retaliation.

# Subpart B—Processing Individual Complaints of Discrimination
§ 306.8
Pre-complaint procedure.
§ 306.9
Complaint procedure.
§ 306.10
Corrective action.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2501
et seq.

# Source:
86 FR 30171, June 7, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 306.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to establish a procedure for the filing, investigation, and administrative determination of allegations of discrimination (including harassment) based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age (40 or over), disability or other bases provided for in applicable statutes, regulations or the Peace Corps Manual or history of participation in the Peace Corps discrimination complaint process which arise in connection with the recruitment, selection, placement, service, or termination of applicants, trainees, or volunteers. In addition, any Peace Corps applicant, trainee, or volunteer may submit an allegation of discrimination to the Peace Corps Office of Inspector General at any time, and the allegation will be processed in accordance with policy and procedures of the Office of Inspector General.
§ 306.2
Policy.
(a) In the recruitment, selection, placement, service, and termination of Peace Corps Trainees and Volunteers, it is the policy of the Peace Corps to provide equal opportunity for all persons and to prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age (40 or over), disability, and other bases provided for in applicable statutes, regulations or the Peace Corps Manual, or history of participation in the Peace Corps discrimination complaint process.
(b) It is the policy of the Peace Corps, upon a determination that such prohibited discrimination has occurred, to take appropriate corrective action to remedy the discrimination and to prevent its recurrence.
(c) It is the policy of the Peace Corps that all agency staff must cooperate in the investigation of a complaint. Volunteers and trainees are strongly encouraged to cooperate.
§ 306.3
Definitions.
Unless the context requires otherwise, in this part:
Applicant
means a person who has submitted a completed application required for consideration of eligibility for Peace Corps Volunteer service. “Applicant” may also mean a person who alleges that the actions of agency personnel precluded them from submitting such an application or any other information reasonably required by the appropriate personnel as necessary for a determination of the individual's eligibility for Volunteer service.
Complainant
means an aggrieved applicant, trainee, or volunteer who believes they have been subject to prohibited discrimination and files a formal complaint.
Complaint
means a written statement signed by a Complainant alleging prohibited discrimination and submitted to the OCRD Director, as described in § 306.9(a).
Counselor
means an official designated by the OCRD Director to perform an informal inquiry focused on possible resolution as detailed in this Part.
Director
means the Director of the Peace Corps.
File(d) Date
means the date a Complaint is received by the appropriate agency official.
Final Agency Decision (FAD)
means the Peace Corps' final written determination on a complaint.
OCRD Director
means the Director of the Peace Corps' Office of Civil Rights and Diversity.
Prohibited discrimination
means discrimination (including harassment) on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age (40 or over), disability, or other bases provided for in applicable statutes, regulations or the Peace Corps Manual, or history of participation in the Peace Corps discrimination complaint process.
Trainee
means a person who has accepted an invitation issued by the Peace Corps and has registered for Peace Corps staging.
Volunteer
means a person who has taken the oath of service and been sworn in for Peace Corps service, whether or not this person is still in Peace Corps service.
§ 306.4
Coverage.
(a) Except as set out below, these procedures apply to all Peace Corps applicants, trainees, and volunteers.
(1) To the extent that a trainee or volunteer makes a complaint containing an allegation of prohibited discrimination in connection with conduct that constitutes sexual misconduct as defined in the Peace Corps' policy on volunteer sexual misconduct.
(2) When an applicant, trainee, or volunteer makes a complaint which contains an allegation of prohibited discrimination in connection with an early termination or other administrative procedure of the agency, only the allegation of prohibited discrimination will be processed under this part. At the discretion of the OCRD Director, additional allegations or claims material to the complaint may be consolidated with the discrimination complaint for processing under these regulations. Any issues which are not so consolidated will continue to be processed under those procedures pursuant to which they were originally raised.
(3) Complaints of retaliation in connection with allegations made under the Peace Corps Volunteer Confidentiality Protection policy shall be handled in accordance with that policy.
(b) The OCRD Director has the discretion to consolidate complaints from different applicants, Trainees, or Volunteers that allege common underlying facts and similar claims.
(c) These regulations do not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. Coverage under these rules does not constitute acceptance by the agency or the United States Government of jurisdiction for judicial review.
§ 306.5
Representation.
Any aggrieved party may be assisted in all stages of these procedures under this Part by an attorney or non-staff representative of his or her own choosing at his or her own expense. An aggrieved party must immediately inform the agency if representation is retained.
§ 306.6
Freedom from retaliation.
Aggrieved parties, their representatives, and witnesses will be free from retaliation at any stage in the presentation and processing of a complaint under this section, including the counseling stage described in 306.8 of this Part, or any time thereafter.
§ 306.7
Review of allegations of retaliation.
(a) An aggrieved party, his or her representative, or a witness who alleges retaliation in connection with the presentation of a complaint under this part, may, if covered by this Part, request in writing that the allegation be reviewed as an act of discrimination subject to the procedures described in subpart B or that the allegation be considered as an issue in the complaint at hand. The determination whether to consider the complaint in the same or a separate proceeding is within the discretion of the OCRD Director.

# Subpart B—Processing Individual Complaints of Discrimination
§ 306.8
Pre-complaint procedure.
(a) Any applicant, trainee or volunteer who believes that he or she has been subject to prohibited discrimination must bring such allegations to the attention of OCRD within 60 days of the alleged discrimination, at which point a Counselor will be assigned to attempt to resolve them.
(b) The pre-complaint procedure is intended to determine whether the concerns of the aggrieved party can be resolved to the mutual satisfaction of the aggrieved party and the agency without the filing of a formal complaint.
(c) The counselor serves as a neutral party, to gather a limited amount of information from the aggrieved party about his or her allegations, explain to the aggrieved party his or her rights, obtain information to determine the applicability of this regulation, and where appropriate, attempt an informal resolution among relevant parties.
(d) The amount of information that the counselor gathers from the agency is limited to information needed to reach an informal resolution to the mutual satisfaction of the aggrieved party and the agency.
(e) The counselor will keep a written record of his or her activities, which will be submitted to the OCRD Director as a counselor's report.
(f) To the extent necessary to reach an informal resolution, the counselor may reveal to relevant agency officials the identity of the aggrieved party. In the event that the aggrieved party requests that the Counselor not share his or her identity with agency officials, the Counselor will not reveal the identity of the aggrieved party (or information that could be used to easily identify the aggrieved party) outside of OCRD. If appropriate, the Counselor should explain to the aggrieved party that an informal resolution and/or the scope of relief available may be limited as a result of the request for anonymity.
(g) The pre-complaint process should be completed within 30 days, but the OCRD Director may extend the period upon request of the aggrieved party or the agency for good cause shown.
(h) If, after inquiry and counseling, an informal resolution to the allegation is not reached, the Counselor will notify the aggrieved party in writing of the right to file a formal complaint of discrimination with the OCRD Director within 30 calendar days of the aggrieved party's receipt of the notice.
(i) As an alternative to assignment of a Counselor as described above, the aggrieved party may ask for Alternative Dispute Resolution as set out in the Peace Corps' policy. In such a case, the parties have 90 days to attempt in good faith to reach an informal resolution of the allegation. At any time during the course of Alternative Dispute Resolution, the aggrieved party or the Responsible Management Official (or their Supervisor), in consultation with the Office of the General Counsel, may terminate those proceedings.
§ 306.9
Complaint procedure.
(a) An applicant, trainee or volunteer who wishes to file a formal complaint must do so within 30 days of receiving the notice set out in 306.8(g) above, by filing a signed complaint in writing with OCRD. A complaint must set forth specifically:
(1) A detailed description, including names and dates, if possible, of the actions of the Peace Corps officials or other persons which resulted in the alleged prohibited discrimination;
(2) The manner in which the Peace Corps' action directly affected the complainant; and
(3) The relief sought.
(b) A complaint that does not conform to the above requirements will nevertheless be deemed to have been received by the OCRD, and the complainant will be notified of the steps necessary to correct the deficiencies of the complaint. The complainant will have 30 days from receipt of notification that the complaint is defective to submit an amended complaint.
(c) The OCRD Director must accept a complaint if the process set forth above has been followed, and the complaint states a covered claim of prohibited discrimination. The OCRD Director may extend the time limits set out above:
(1) When the complainant shows that they were not notified of the time limits and were not otherwise aware of them;
(2) The complainant shows that they were prevented by circumstances beyond their control from submitting the matter in a timely fashion; or
(3) For other reasons considered sufficient by the OCRD Director.
(d) At any time during the complaint procedure, the OCRD Director may dismiss a complaint based on the aggrieved party's failure to prosecute the complaint. However, this action may be taken only after:
(1) The OCRD Director has made a written request, including notice of the proposed dismissal, that the Complainant provide certain information or otherwise proceed with the complaint; and
(2) 30 days have elapsed since the sending of the request.
If the complaint is rejected for failure to meet one or more of the requirements set out in the procedure outlined in 306.8 or is dismissed, the OCRD Director will inform the aggrieved party in writing of this FAD, advising that the Peace Corps will take no further action.
(e) Upon acceptance of the complaint and receipt of the Counselor's report, the OCRD Director will provide for a prompt impartial investigation of the complaint. The OCRD may employ a Peace Corps employee or external party to conduct the investigation. If a Peace Corps employee is selected to investigate the complaint, the person assigned to investigate the complaint may not occupy a position in the agency which is, directly or indirectly, under the jurisdiction of the head of that part of the agency in which the complaint arose. The investigation will include a review of the circumstances under which the alleged discrimination occurred, and any other circumstances which may constitute, or appear to constitute, discrimination against the complainant.
(f) Agency officials responsible for providing information relating to the complaint to the investigator will be provided such information about the complaint as they may need in order to respond appropriately. For example, responding agency officials who have a need to know may be provided with information including the identity of the complainant and statements of the alleged discriminatory basis and adverse action.
(g) In cases where sensitive and/or protected information about applicants, trainees, or volunteers (other than the complainant) is requested or involved, agency officials may only disclose such information that is directly relevant to claim(s) being investigated, and must ensure that such information is handled in such a manner that the privacy of the applicants, trainees, or volunteers in question is fully protected, in accordance with the Peace Corps' policy on confidentiality of volunteer information.
(h) Every agency official responsible for providing information relating to the complaint to the investigator may at any point consult the Office of the General Counsel and/or his or her supervisor, unless the supervisor is alleged to have been involved in the conduct that is the subject of the complaint. Agency officials responsible for providing information to the investigator shall only provide information based on personal knowledge, and should not seek to align or conform his
or her statement with that of another responding agency official.
(i) The investigator will compile a report of investigation (ROI) and forward the ROI to the OCRD Director. The OCRD Director will arrange for preparation of a draft FAD, which will be in writing, state the reasons underlying the decision, recommend corrective action if and as appropriate, and advise the complainant of the right to appeal the recommended FAD to the Peace Corps Director, or designee. To the extent feasible, this will be completed within 120 days of the filing of the complaint. However, the OCRD Director has discretion to extend the period.
(j) The OCRD Director will issue the proposed FAD to the complainant with a copy of the ROI.
(k) Within ten calendar days of receipt of such proposed FAD, the complainant may submit his or her appeal of the proposed disposition to the Peace Corps Director, or designee.
(l) The Peace Corps Director, or designee, will, to the extent feasible, decide the issue within 45 days of the date of receipt of the appeal. The claimant will be informed in writing of the decision and its basis and advised that it is the FAD regarding the complaint.
(m) Where a complainant does not submit a timely appeal pursuant to (k) above, the OCRD Director will issue the proposed FAD as the FAD.
(n) The OCRD Director will inform relevant management officials as to whether or not prohibited discrimination was found in the FAD.
§ 306.10
Corrective action.
When the agency's FAD states that the aggrieved party has been subjected to prohibited discrimination, the following corrective actions may be taken:
(a) Selection as a trainee for an otherwise qualified complainant found to have been denied selection based on prohibited discrimination.
(b) Reinstatement to volunteer service for a complainant found to have been early-terminated as a result of prohibited discrimination. To the extent possible, a terminated volunteer will be placed in the same position previously held. However, reinstatement to the specific country of prior service, or to the specific position previously held is contingent on programmatic considerations, including but not limited to the continued availability of the position or program in that country, and acceptance by the host country of such placement. If the same position is deemed to be no longer available, the aggrieved party will be offered reenrollment in a position in as similar as possible circumstances to the position previously held, or will be given interrupted service status. A reenrollment may require a medical clearance and/or other clearances, and both additional training and an additional two year commitment to Volunteer service.
(c) Such other relief as may be deemed appropriate by the Peace Corps.
Pt. 308

# PART 308—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
Sec.
308.1
Purpose.
308.2
Policy.
308.3
Definitions.
308.4
Disclosure of records.
308.5
New uses of information.
308.6
Reports regarding changes in systems.
308.7
Use of social security account number in records systems. [Reserved]
308.8
Rules of conduct.
308.9
Records systems—management and control.
308.10
Security of records systems—manual and automated.
308.11
Accounting for disclosure of records.
308.12
Contents of records systems.
308.13
Access to records.
308.14
Specific exemptions.
308.15
Identification of requesters.
308.16
Amendment of records and appeals with respect thereto.
308.17
Denial of access and appeals with respect thereto.
308.18
Fees.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
50 FR 1844, Jan. 14, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 308.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth the basic policies of the Peace Corps governing the maintenance of systems of records containing personal information as defined in the Privacy
Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). Records included in this part are those described in the aforesaid Act and maintained by the Peace Corps and/or any component thereof.
§ 308.2
Policy.
It is the policy of the Peace Corps to protect, preserve and defend the right of privacy of any individual as to whom the agency maintains personal information in any records system and to provide appropriate and complete access to such records including adequate opportunity to correct any errors in said records. It is further the policy of the agency to maintain its records in such a fashion that the information contained therein is and remains material and relevant to the purposes for which it is collected in order to maintain its records with fairness to the individuals who are the subject of such records.
§ 308.3
Definitions.
(a)
Record
means any document, collection, or grouping of information about an individual maintained by the agency, including but not limited to information regarding education, financial transactions, medical history, criminal or employment history, or any other personal information which contains the name or personal identification number, symbol, photograph, or other identifying particular assigned to such individual, such as a finger or voiceprint.
(b)
System of Records
means a group of any records under the control of the agency from which information is retrieved by use of the name of an individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
(c)
Routine Use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.
(d) The term
agency
means the Peace Corps or any component thereof.
(e) The term
individual
means any citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted to permanent residence.
(f) The term
maintain
includes the maintenance, collection, use or dissemination of any record.
(g) The term
Act
means the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) as amended from time to time.
§ 308.4
Disclosure of records.
The agency will not disclose any personal information from systems of records it maintains to any individual other than the individual to whom the record pertains, or to another agency, without the express written consent of the individual to whom the record pertains, or his or her agent or attorney, except in the following instances:
(a) To officers or employees of the Peace Corps having a need for such record in the official performance of their duties.
(b) When required under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
(c) For routine uses as published in the
Federal Register.
(d) To the Bureau of the Census for uses pursuant to title 13.
(e) To an individual or agency having a proper need for such record for statistical research provided that such record is transmitted in a form which is not individually identifiable and that an appropriate written statement is obtained from the person to whom the record is transmitted stating the purpose for the request and a certification under oath that the records will be used only for statistical purposes.
(f) To the National Archives of the United States as a record of historical value under rules and regulations of the Archives or to the Administrator of General Services or his designee to determine if it has such value.
(g) To an agency or instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within the control of the United States for civil or criminal law enforcement activities, if the activity is authorized by law, and the head of any such agency or instrumentality has made a written request for such records specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought. Such a record may also be disclosed by the agency to the law enforcement agency on its own initiative in situations in which criminal
conduct is suspected:
Provided,
That such disclosure has been established as a routine use or in situations in which the misconduct is directly related to the purpose for which the record is maintained.
(h) In emergency situations upon a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual provided that after such disclosure, notification of such disclosure must be promptly sent to the last known address of the individual to whom the record pertains.
(i) To either House of Congress or to a subcommittee or committee (joint or of either house) to the extent the subject matter falls within their jurisdiction.
(j) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office.
(k) Pursuant to an order by the presiding judge of a court of competent jurisdiction. If any record is disclosed under such compulsory legal process and subsequently made public by the court which issued it, the agency must make a reasonable effort to notify the individual to whom the record pertains of such disclosure.
(l) To consumer reporting agencies as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3) in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711, and under contracts for collection services as authorized in 31 U.S.C. 3718.
§ 308.5
New uses of information.
The agency shall publish in the
Federal Register
a notice of its intention to establish a new or revised routine use of any system of records maintained by it with an opportunity for public comments on such use. Such notice shall contain the following:
(a) The name of the system of records for which the new or revised routine use is to be established.
(b) The authority for maintaining the system of records.
(c) The categories of records maintained in the system.
(d) The purpose for which the record is to be maintained.
(e) The proposed routine use(s).
(f) The purpose of the routine use(s).
(g) The categories of recipients of such use.
In the event of any request for an addition to the routine uses of the systems which the agency maintains, such request may be sent to the following officer: Director, Office of Administrative Services, Peace Corps, 806 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20526.
§ 308.6
Reports regarding changes in systems.
The agency shall provide to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget advance notice of any proposal to establish or alter any system of records as defined herein. This report will be submitted in accord with guidelines provided by the Office of Management and Budget.
§ 308.7
Use of social security account number in records systems. [Reserved]
§ 308.8
Rules of conduct.
(a) The head of the agency shall assure that all persons involved in the design, development, operation or maintenance of any systems of records as defined herein are informed of all requirements necessary to protect the privacy of individuals who are the subject of such records. All employees shall be informed of all implications of the Act in this area including the criminal penalties provided under the Act, and the fact the agency may be subject to civil suit for failure to comply with the provisions of the Privacy Act and these regulations.
(b) The head of the agency shall also ensure that all personnel having access to records receive adequate training in the protection of the security of personal records and that adequate and proper storage is provided for all such records with sufficient security to assure the privacy of such records.
§ 308.9
Records systems—management and control.
(a) The Director, Office of Administrative Services, shall have overall control and supervision of the security of all records keeping systems and shall be responsible for monitoring the security standards set forth in these regulations.
(b) A designated official (System Manager) shall be named who shall have management responsibility for each record system maintained by the agency and who shall be responsible for providing protection and accountability for such records at all times and for insuring that such records are secured in appropriate containers wherever not in use or in the direct control of authorized personnel.
§ 308.10
Security of records systems—manual and automated.
The head of the agency has the responsibility of maintaining adequate technical, physical, and security safeguards to prevent unauthorized disclosure or destruction of manual and automatic record systems. These security safeguards shall apply to all systems in which identifiable personal data are processed or maintained including all reports and outputs from such systems which contain identifiable personal information. Such safeguards must be sufficient to prevent negligent, accidental, or unintentional disclosure, modification or destruction of any personal records or data and must furthermore minimize the extent technicians or knowledgeable persons could improperly obtain access to modify or destroy such records or data and shall further insure against such casual entry by unskilled persons without official reasons for access to such records or data.
(a)
Manual systems.
(1) Records contained in records systems as defined herein may be used, held or stored only where facilities are adequate to prevent unauthorized access by persons within or without the agency.
(2) All records systems when not under the personal control of the employees authorized to use same must be stored in an appropriate metal filing cabinet. Where appropriate, such cabinet shall have a three position dial-type combination lock, and/or be equipped with a steel lock bar secured by a GSA approved changeable combination padlock or in some such other securely locked cabinet as may be approved by GSA for the storage of such records. Certain systems are not of such confidential nature that their disclosure would harm an individual who is the subject of such record. Records in this category shall be maintained in steel cabinets without the necessity of combination locks.
(3) Access to and use of systems of records shall be permitted only to persons whose official duties require such access within the agency, for routine use as defined in § 308.4 and in the Peace Corps' published systems of records notices, or for such other uses as may be provided herein.
(4) Other than for access within the agency to persons needing such records in the performance of their official duties or routine uses as defined herein and in the Peace Corps' systems of records notices or such other uses as provided herein, access to records within systems of records shall be permitted only to the individual to whom the record pertains or upon his or her written request to a designated personal representative.
(5) Access to areas where records systems are stored will be limited to those persons whose official duties require work in such areas and proper accounting of removal of any records from storage areas shall be maintained at all times in the form directed by the Director, Administrative Services.
(6) The agency shall assure that all persons whose official duties require access to and use of records contained in records systems are adequately trained to protect the security and privacy of such records.
(7) The disposal and destruction of records within records systems shall be in accord with rules promulgated by the General Services Administration.
(b)
Automated systems.
(1) Identifiable personal information may be processed, stored or maintained by automatic data systems only where facilities or conditions are adequate to prevent unauthorized access to such systems in any form. Whenever such data contained in punch cards, magnetic tapes or discs are not under the personal control of an authorized person such information must be stored in a metal filing cabinet having a built-in three position combination lock, a metal filing cabinet equipped with a steel lock, a metal filing cabinet equipped with a steel lock bar secured with a General Services Administration (GSA) approved
combination padlock, or in adequate containers or in a secured room or in such other facility having greater safeguards than those provided for herein.
(2) Access to and use of identifiable personal data associated with automated data systems shall be limited to those persons whose official duties require such access. Proper control of personal data in any form associated with automated data systems shall be maintained at all times including maintenance of accountability records showing disposition of input and output documents.
(3) All persons whose official duties require access to processing and maintenance of identifiable personal data and automated systems shall be adequately trained in the security and privacy of personal data.
(4) The disposal and disposition of identifiable personal data and automated systems shall be carried on by shredding, burning or in the case of tapes of discs, degaussing, in accord with any regulations now or hereafter proposed by the GSA or other appropriate authority.
§ 308.11
Accounting for disclosure of records.
Each office maintaining a system of records shall keep a written account of routine disclosures (see paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section) for all records within such system in the form prescribed by the Director, Office of Administrative Services. Disclosure made to employees of the agency in the normal course of their official duties or pursuant to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act need not be accounted for. Such written account shall contain the following:
(a) The date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record to any person or to another agency.
(b) The name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure was made.
(c) Sufficient information to permit the construction of a listing of all disclosures at appropriate periodic intervals.
(d) The justification or basis upon which any release was made including any written documentation required when records are released for statistical or law enforcement purposes under the provisions of subsection (b) of the Act.
(e) For the purpose of this part, the system of accounting for disclosure is not a system of records under the definitions hereof and no accounting need be maintained for the disclosure of accounting of disclosures.
§ 308.12
Contents of records systems.
(a) The agency shall maintain in any records contained in any records system hereunder only such information about an individual as is accurate, relevant, and necessary to accomplish the purpose for which the agency acquired the information as authorized by statute or executive order.
(b) In situations in which the information may result in adverse determinations about such individual's rights, benefits and privileges under any Federal program, all information placed in records systems shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be collected from the individual to whom the record pertains.
(c) Each form or other document which an individual is expected to complete in order to provide information for any records system shall have appended thereto, or in the body of the document:
(1) An indication of the authority authorizing the solicitation of the information and whether the provision of the information is mandatory or voluntary.
(2) The purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used.
(3) Routine uses which may be made of the information and published pursuant to § 308.7 of this regulation.
(4) The effect on the individual, if any, of not providing all or part of the required or requested information.
(d) Records maintained in any system of records used by the agency to make any determination about any individual shall be maintained with such accuracy, relevancy, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the making of any determination about such individual:
Provided, however
, That the agency shall not be required to update or keep current retired records.
(e) Before disseminating any record about an individual to any person other than an agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e) or pursuant to the provsions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the agency shall make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely and relevant for agency purposes.
(f) Under no circumstances shall the agency maintain any record about an individual with respect to or describing how such individual exercises rights guaranteed by the first amendment of the Constitution of the United States unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.
(g) In the event any record is disclosed as a result of the order of a presiding judge of a court of competent jurisdiction, the agency shall make reasonable efforts to notify the individual whose record was so disclosed after the process becomes a matter of public record.
§ 308.13
Access to records.
(a) The Director, Administrative Services, shall keep a current list of systems of records maintained by the agency and published in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
(b) Individuals requesting access to any record the agency maintains about him or her in a system of records shall be provided access to such records. Such requests shall be submitted in writing by mail, or in person during regular business hours, to the System Managers identified in the specific system notices. Systems maintained at overseas and dometic field offices may be addressed to the Country Director or Regional Service Center Manager. If assistance is needed, the Director, Office of Administrative Services, will provide agency addresses.
(c) Requests for records from more than one system of records shall be directed to the Director, Office of Administrative Services, Peace Crops, 806 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20526.
(d) Requests for access to or copies of records should contain, at a minimum, identifying information needed to locate any given record and a brief description of the item or items of information required. If the individual wishes access to specific documents the request should identify or describe as nearly as possible such documents.
(e) A record may be disclosed to a representative of the person to whom a record relates who is authorized in writing to have access to the record by the person to whom it relates.
(f) A request made in person will be promptly complied with if the records sought are in the immediate custody of the Peace Corps. Mailed or personal request for documents in storage which must be complied from more than one location, or which are otherwise not immediately available, will be acknowledge within ten working days, and the records requested will be provided as promptly thereafter as possible.
(g) Medical or psychological records shall be disclosed to an individual unless in the judgment of the agency, access to such records might have an adverse effect upon such individual. When such determination has been made, the agency may require that the information be disclosed only to a physician chosen by the requesting individual. Such physician shall have full authority to disclose all or any portion of such record to the requesting individual in the exercise of his or her professional judgment.
§ 308.14
Specific exemptions.
Records or portions of records in certain record systems specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be exempt from disclosure:
Provided, however,
That no such exemption shall apply to the provisions of § 308.12(a) (maintaining records with accuracy, completeness, etc. as reasonably necessary for agency purposes); § 308.12(b) (collecting information directly from the individual to whom it pertains); § 308.12(c) (informing individuals asked to supply information of the purposes for which it is collected and whether it is mandatory); § 308.12(g)
(notifying the subjects of records disclosed under compulsory court process); § 308.16(d)(3) (informing prior recipient of corrected or disputed records); § 308.16(g) (civil remedies). With the above exceptions the following material shall be exempt from disclosure to the extent indicated:
(a) Material in any system of records considered classified and exempt from disclosure under provisions of section 552(b)(1) of the Freedom of Information Act. Agency systems of records now containing such material are: Legal Files—Staff, Volunteers and Applicants; Security Records Peace Corps Staff/Volunteers and ACTION staff.
(1) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(1)
(2) Reasons: To protect information classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.
(b) Investigatory material compiled for the purposes of law enforcement:
Provided, however,
That if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit that he or she would otherwise be entitled to by Federal law, or for which he or she would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be provided to such individual except to the extent necessary to protect the identity of a source who furnished information to the government under an express promise that his or her identity would be held in confidence, or prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act of 1974, under an implied promise of such confidentiality of the identity of such source. Agency systems of records containing such investigatory material are: Discrimination Complaint Files; Employee Occupational Injury and Illness Reports; Legal Files—Staff, Volunteers and Applicants; Security Records—Peace Corps Staff/Volunteers and ACTION Staff.
(1) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2)
(2) Reasons: To protect the identity of sources to whom proper promises of confidentiality have been made during investigations. Without these promises, sources will often be unwilling to provide information essential in adjudicating access in a fair and impartial manner.
(c) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility or qualification for service as an employee or volunteer or for the obtaining of a Federal contract or for access to classified information:
Provided, however,
That such material shall be disclosed to the extent possible without revealing the identity of a source who furnished information to the government under an express promise of the confidentiality of his or her identity or, prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act of 1974, under an implied promise of such confidentiality of identity. Agency systems of records containing such material are: Contractors and Consultant Files; Discrimination Complaint Files; Legal Files—Staff, Volunteers and Applicants; Personal Service Contract Records—Peace Corps Staff/Volunteers and ACTION Staff; Staff Applicant and Personnel Records; Talent Bank; Volunteer Applicant and Service Record Systems.
(1) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5)
(2) Reasons: To ensure the frankness of information used to determine whether Peace Corps Volunteers applicants and Peace Corps Staff applicants are qualified for service with the agency.
(d) Records in the Office of Inspector General Investigative Files and Records system of records are exempt from certain provisions to the extent provided hereinafter.
(1) To the extent that the system of records pertains to the enforcement of criminal laws, the Office of Inspector General Investigative Files and Records system of records is exempt from all sections of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) except the following sections: (b) relating to conditions of disclosure; (c)(1) and (2) relating to keeping and maintaining a disclosure accounting; (e)(4)(A) through (F) relating to publishing a system notice setting the name, location, categories of individuals and records, routine uses, and policies regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention and disposal of the records; (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), and (11) relating to dissemination and maintenance of records and (i) relating to criminal penalties. This system of records is also exempt from the provisions of § 308.11 through
§ 308.17 to the extent that the provisions of these sections conflict with this paragraph.
(i) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).
(ii) Reasons:
(A) To prevent interference with law enforcement proceedings.
(B) To avoid unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, by disclosure of information about third parties, including other subjects of investigations, investigators, and witnesses.
(C) To protect the identity of Federal employees who furnish a complaint or information to OIG, consistent with section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 3.
(D) To protect the confidentiality of non-Federal employee sources of information.
(E) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including those contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement information systems.
(F) To prevent disclosure of law enforcement techniques and procedures.
(G) To avoid endangering the life or physical safety of confidential sources.
(2) To the extent that there may exist within this system of records investigative files compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, the OIG Investigative Files and Records system of records is exempt from the following sections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3) relating to access to the disclosure accounting; (d) relating to access to records; (e)(1) relating to the type of information maintained in the records; (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I) relating to publishing the system notice information as to agency procedures for access and amendment, and information as to the categories of sources or records; and (f) relating to developing agency rules for gaining access and making corrections.
Provided, however,
That if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit that they would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, or for which they would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be provided to such individual except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to January 1, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. This system of records is also exempt from the provisions of § 308.11 through § 308.17 to the extent that the provisions of these sections conflict with this paragraph.
(i) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2)
(ii) Reasons:
(A) To prevent interference with law enforcement proceedings.
(B) To protect investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes.
(C) To avoid unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, by disclosure of information about third parties, including other subjects of investigation, law enforcement personnel, and sources of information.
(D) To fulfill commitments made to protect the confidentiality of sources.
(E) To protect the identity of Federal employees who furnish a complaint or information to the OIG, consistent with Section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 3.
(F) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including those contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement systems.
(G) [Reserved]
(H) To prevent disclosure of law enforcement techniques and procedures.
(I) To avoid endangering the life or physical safety of confidential sources and law enforcement personnel.
[50 FR 1844, Jan. 14, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 39657, July 26, 1993]
§ 308.15
Identification of requesters.
The agency shall require reasonable identification of all individuals who request access to records to assure that records are not disclosed to persons not entitled to such access.
(a) In the event an individual requests disclosure in person, such individual shall be required to show an identification card such as a driver's license, etc., containing a photo and a sample signature of such individual. Such individual may also be required to sign a statement under oath as to
his or her identity acknowledging that he or she is aware of the penalties for improper disclosure under the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974.
(b) In the event that disclosure is requested by mail, the agency may request such information as may be necessary to reasonably assure that the individual making such request is properly identified. In certain cases, the agency may require that a mail request be notarized with an indication that the notary received an acknowledgment of identity from the individual making such request.
(c) In the event an individual is unable to provide suitable documentation or identification, the agency may require a signed notarized statement asserting the identity of the individual and stipulating that the individual understands that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretenses is punishable by a fine of up to $5,000.
(d) In the event a requester wishes to be accompanied by another person while reviewing his or her records, the agency may require a written statement authorizing discussion of his or her records in the presence of the accompanying representative or other persons.
§ 308.16
Amendment of records and appeals with respect thereto.
(a) In the event an individual desires to request an amendment of his or her record, he or she may do so by submitting such written request to the Director, Administrative Services, Peace Corps, 806 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20526. The Director, Administrative Services, shall provide assistance in preparing any amendment upon request and a written acknowledgment of receipt of such request within 10 working days after the receipt thereof from the individual who requested the amendment. Such acknowledgment may, if necessary, request any additional information needed to make a determination with respect to such request. If the agency decides to comply with the request within the 10 day period, no written acknowledgment is necessary:
Provided, however,
That a certification of the change shall be provided to such individual within such period.
(b) Promptly after acknowledgment of the receipt of a request for an amendment the agency shall take one of the following actions:
(1) Make any corrections of any portion of the record which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete.
(2) Inform the individual of its refusal to amend the record in accord with the request together with the reason for such refusal and the procedures established for requesting review of such refusal by the head of the agency or his or her designee. Such notice shall include the name and business address of the reviewing official.
(3) Refer the request to the agency that has control of and maintains the record in those instances where the record requested remains the property of the controlling agency and not of the Peace Corps.
(c) In reviewing a request to amend the record the agency shall assess the accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness of the record with due and appropriate regard for fairness to the individual about whom the record is maintained. In making such determination, the agency shall consult criteria for determining record quality published in pertinent chapters of the
Federal Personnel Manual
and to the extent possible shall accord therewith.
(d) In the event the agency agrees with the individual's request to amend such record it shall:
(1) Advise the individual in writing,
(2) Correct the record accordingly, and
(3) Advise all previous recipients of a record which was corrected of the correction and its substance.
(e) In the event the agency, after an initial review of the request to amend a record, disagrees with all or a portion of it, the agency shall:
(1) Advise the individual of its refusal and the reasons therefore,
(2) Inform the individual that he or she may request further review in accord with the provisions of these regulations, and
(3) Specify The name and address of the person to whom the request should be directed.
(f) In the event an individual requester disagrees with the initial agency determination, he or she may appeal such determination to the Director of the Peace Corps or his or her designee. Such request for review must be made within 30 days after receipt by the requester of the initial refusal to amend.
(g) If after review the Director or designee refuses to amend the record as requested he or she shall advise the individual requester of such refusal and the reasons for same; of his or her right to file a concise statement in the record of the reasons for disagreeing with the decision of the agency; of the procedures for filing a statement of disagreement and of the fact that such statement so filed will be made available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed together with a brief statement of the agency summarizing its reasons for refusal, if the agency decides to place such brief statement in the record. The agency shall have the authority to limit the length of any statement to be filed, such limit to depend upon the record involved. The agency shall also inform such individual that prior recipients of the disputed record will be provided a copy of both statements of the dispute to the extent that the accounting of disclosures has been maintained and of the individual's right to seek judicial review of the agency's refusal to amend the record.
(h) If after review the official determines that the record should be amended in accordance with the individual's request, the agency shall proceed as provided above in the event a request is granted upon initial demand.
(i) Final agency determination of an individual's request for a review shall be concluded with 30 working days from the date of receipt of the review request:
Provided, however,
That the Director or designee may determine that fair and equitable review cannot be made within that time. If such circumstances occur, the individual shall be notified in writing of the additional time required and of the approximate date on which determination of the review is expected to be completed.
§ 308.17
Denial of access and appeals with respect thereto.
In the event that the agency finds it necessary to deny any individual access to a record about such individual pursuant to provisions of the Privacy Act or of these regulations, a response to the original request shall be made in writing within ten working days after the date of such initial request. The denial shall specify the reasons for such refusal or denial and advise the individual of the reasons therefore, and of his or her right to an appeal within the agency and/or judicial review under the provisions of the Act.
(a) In the event an individual desires to appeal any denial of access, he or she may do so in writing by addressing such appeal to the attention of the Director, Peace Corps, or designee identified in such denial. Such appeal should be addressed to Director, Peace Corps, c/o Office of Administrative Services, Room P-314, 806 Connecticut Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20526.
(b) The Director, or designee, shall review a request from a denial of access and shall make a determination with respect to such appeal within 30 days after receipt thereof. Notice of such determination shall be provided to the individual making the request in writing. If such appeal is denied in whole or in part, such notice shall include notification of the right of the person making such request to have judicial review of the denial as provided in the Act.
§ 308.18
Fees.
No fees shall be charged for search time or for any other time expended by the agency to produce a record. Copies of records may be charged for at the rate of 10 cents per page provided that one copy of any record shall be provided free of charge.
Pt. 309

# PART 309—DEBT COLLECTION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
309.1
General purpose.
309.2
Scope.
309.3
Definitions.
309.4
Other procedures or actions.
309.5
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
309.6
Collection in installments.
309.7
Designation.

# Subpart B—Collection Actions
309.8
Application.
309.9
Notice—written demand for payment.
309.10
Review requirements.
309.11
Collection.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
309.12
Purpose.
309.13
Scope.
309.14
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
309.15
Notice requirements before offset.
309.16
Review.
309.17
Procedures for salary offset.
309.18
Voluntary repayment agreements as an alternative to salary offset.
309.19
Waiver.
309.20
Compromise.
309.21
Suspension of collection.
309.22
Termination of collection.
309.23
Discharge.
309.24
Bankruptcy.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3701-3719; 5 U.S.C. 5514; 22 U.S.C. 2503(b); 31 U.S.C. 3720A; 31 CFR part 285; 5 CFR 550, subpart K.

# Source:
73 FR 18155, Apr. 3, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 309.1
General purpose.
This part prescribes the procedures to be used by the United States Peace Corps (Peace Corps) in the collection and/or disposal of non-tax debts owed to Peace Corps and to the United States.
§ 309.2
Scope.
(a)
Applicability of Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS).
Peace Corps hereby adopts the provisions of the Federal Claims Collections Standards (31 CFR parts 900-904) and, except as set forth in this part or otherwise provided by law, Peace Corps will conduct administrative actions to collect claims (including offset, compromise, suspension, termination, disclosure and referral) in accordance with the FCCS.
(b) This part is not applicable to:
(1) Peace Corps claims against another Federal agency, any foreign country or any political subdivision thereof, or any public international organization.
(2) Debts arising out of acquisitions contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled in accordance with those regulations (see 49 CFR part 32).
(3) Claims where the Peace Corps Director (or designee) determines that the achievement of the purposes of the Peace Corps Act, as amended, 22 U.S.C. 2501
et seq.,
or any other provision of law administered by the Peace Corps require a different course of action.
§ 309.3
Definitions.
As used in this part (except where the context clearly indicates, or where the term is otherwise defined elsewhere in this part) the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Administrative offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the person to the United States.
(b)
Administrative wage garnishment
means the process by which a Federal agency orders a non-Federal employer to withhold amounts from an employee's wages to satisfy a debt the employee owes to the United States.
(c)
Compromise
means that the creditor agency accepts less than the full amount of an outstanding debt in full satisfaction of the entire amount of the debt.
(d)
Debt
or
claim
means an amount of money which has been determined by an appropriate agency official to be owed to the United States from any person. As used in this part, the terms debt and claim are synonymous.
(e)
Debtor
means a person who owes the Federal Government money.
(f)
Delinquent debt
means any debt, which has not been paid by the date specified in an agency's initial written notification or in an applicable agreement, unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
(g)
Discharge
means the release of a debtor from personal liability for a debt. Further collection action is prohibited.
(h)
Disposable pay
has the same meaning as that term is defined in 5 CFR § 550.1103.
(i)
Employee
means a current employee of the Peace Corps or other Federal agency, including a member of the
Armed Forces or Reserve of the Armed Forces of the United States.
(j)
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards jointly published by the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Justice at 31 CFR parts 900-904.
(k)
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency, foreign government, or public international organization.
(l)
Salary offset
means the withholding of amounts from the current pay account of a Federal employee to satisfy a debt owed by that employee to the United States.
(m)
Suspension
means the temporary cessation of an active debt collection pending the occurrence of an anticipated event.
(n)
Termination
means the cessation of all active debt collection action for the foreseeable future.
(o)
Waiver
means the decision to forgo collection of a debt owed to the United States as permitted or required by law.
§ 309.4
Other procedures or actions.
(a) Nothing contained in this regulation is intended to require Peace Corps to duplicate administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
(b) Nothing in this regulation is intended to preclude utilization of informal administrative actions or remedies which may be available.
(c) Nothing contained in this regulation is intended to deter Peace Corps from demanding the return of specific property or from demanding the return of the property or the payment of its value.
(d) The failure of Peace Corps to comply with any provision in this regulation shall not serve as a defense to the debt.
§ 309.5
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, contract or excluded in accordance with FCCS, Peace Corps will assess:
(1) Interest on unpaid debts in accordance with 31 CFR 901.9.
(2) Penalty charges at a rate of 6 percent a year or such other rate as authorized by law on any portion of a claim that is delinquent for more than 90 days.
(3) Administrative charges to cover the costs of processing and handling delinquent debts.
(4) Late payment charges that shall be computed from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the notice of the claim and interest requirements.
(b) When a debt is paid in partial or installment payments, amounts received shall be applied first to outstanding penalty and administrative cost charges, second to accrued interest, and then to outstanding principal.
(c)
Waiver.
Peace Corps will consider waiver of interest, penalties and/or administrative costs in accordance with the FCCS, 31 CFR 901.9(g).
§ 309.6
Collection in installments.
Whenever feasible, and except as required otherwise by law, debts owed to the United States, together with interest, penalties, and administrative costs as required by this regulation, should be collected in one lump sum. This is true whether the debt is being collected under administrative offset, including salary offset, or by another method, including voluntary payment. However, if the debtor is financially unable to pay the indebtedness in one lump sum, payment may be accepted in regular installments. If Peace Corps agrees to accept payment in installments, it may require a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor that specifies all of the terms of the arrangement and which contains a provision accelerating the debt in the event the debtor defaults. The size and frequency of the payments should bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and ability of the debtor to pay. If possible, the installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the Government's claim within three years.
§ 309.7
Designation.
The Chief Financial Officer is delegated authority and designated to perform all the duties for which the Director is responsible under the forgoing statutes and joint regulations.

# Subpart B—Collection Actions
§ 309.8
Application.
(a) Peace Corps shall aggressively collect claims and debts in accordance with these regulations and applicable law.
(b) Peace Corps will transfer to the Department of the Treasury, Financial Management Service (FMS) any past due, legally enforceable non-tax debt that has been delinquent for 180 days or more so that FMS may take appropriate action to collect the debt or take other appropriate action in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
(c) Peace Corps may transfer any past due, legally enforceable debt that has been delinquent for fewer than 180 days to FMS for collection in accordance with applicable law and regulation. (See 31 CFR part 285.)
§ 309.9
Notice—written demand for payment.
(a) Upon determination that a debt is owed to Peace Corps or the United States, Peace Corps shall promptly hand deliver or send by first-class mail (to the debtor's most current address in the records of Peace Corps) at least one written notice (e.g. Bill of Collection or demand letter) informing the debtor of the consequences of failing to pay or otherwise resolve a Peace Corps debt, subject to paragraph (c) of this section. Written demand under this subpart may be preceded by other appropriate actions under this part and or the FCCS, including but not limited to actions taken under the procedures applicable to administrative offset, including salary offset.
(b) The written notice shall inform the debtor of:
(1) The nature and amount of the debt, and the facts giving rise to the debt;
(2) The date by which payment should be made to avoid the imposition of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, and the enforced collection actions described in § 309.5 of this part;
(3) The applicable standards for imposing interest, penalties and administrative costs to delinquent debts;
(4) Peace Corps' willingness to discuss alternative payment arrangements and how the debtor may enter into a written agreement to repay the debt under terms acceptable to Peace Corps;
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of a contact person or office within Peace Corps;
(6) Peace Corps' intention to enforce collection if the debtor fails to pay or otherwise resolve the debt, by taking one or more of the following actions:
(i) Offset from Federal payments otherwise due to the debtor, including income tax refunds, salary, certain benefit payments, retirement, vendor payments, travel reimbursement and advances, and other Federal payments;
(ii) Referral to private collection agency;
(iii) Report to credit bureaus;
(iv) Administrative wage garnishment;
(v) Referral to Department of Justice for litigation action;
(vi) Referral to Financial Management Service of the Department of the Treasury for collection;
(vii) Other actions as permitted by the FCCS and applicable law.
(7) How the debtor may inspect and copy records related to the debt;
(8) The debtor's opportunity for an internal review of Peace Corps' determination that the debtor owes a debt or the amount of the debt;
(9) The debtor's right, if any, to request waiver of collection of certain debts, as applicable;
(10) Requirement that the debtor advise Peace Corps of any bankruptcy proceeding of the debtor.
(c) Peace Corps may omit from a notice to a debtor one or more of the provisions contained in paragraphs (b) (6) through (10) of this section if Peace Corps determines that any provision is not legally required given the collection remedies to be applied to a particular debt, or which have already been provided by prior notice, applicable agreement, or contract.
§ 309.10
Review requirements.
(a) For purposes of this section, whenever Peace Corps is required to afford a debtor a review within the agency, Peace Corps shall provide the debtor with an opportunity for an internal review of the existence or the amount
of the debt. For offset of current Federal salary under 5 U.S.C. 5514 for certain debts, debtors may also request an outside hearing. (See subpart C of this part)
(b) Any request for a review must be in writing to the contact office by the payment due date stated in the initial notice sent under § 309.9(b) or other applicable provision. The debtor's request shall state the basis for the dispute and include any relevant documentation in support.
(1) Peace Corps will provide for an internal review of the debt by an appropriate agency official. The review may include examination of documents, internal discussions with relevant officials and discussion by letter or orally with the debtor, at Peace Corps' discretion.
(2) An oral hearing is not required when, in Peace Corps' determination, the matter can be decided on the documentary record. Peace Corps will provide a “paper hearing”, that is, a determination based upon a review of the written record unless Peace Corps makes a determination that a debt involves issues of credibility or veracity, at which point an oral hearing may be required. Unless otherwise required by law, such oral hearing shall not be a formal evidentiary hearing.
§ 309.11
Collection.
Upon final determination of the existence and amount of a debt, unless other acceptable payment arrangement have been made or procedures under a specific statute apply, Peace Corps shall collect the debt by one or more of the methods described in § 309.9(b) (6) (i-vii) or as otherwise authorized by law and regulation.
(a)
Administrative offset
—(1) Payments otherwise due the debtor from the United States shall be offset from the debt in accordance with 31 CFR 901.3. These may be funds under the control of Peace Corps or other Federal agencies. Collection may be through centralized offset by the Financial Management Service (FMS) of the Department of the Treasury.
(2) Such payments include but are not limited to vendor payments, salary, retirement, lump sum payments due upon Federal employment separation, travel reimbursements, tax refunds, loans or other assistance. Offset of Federal salary payments will be in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514.
(3) Before administrative offset is instituted by another Federal agency or the FMS, Peace Corps shall certify in writing to that entity that the debt is past due and legally enforceable and that Peace Corps has complied with all applicable due process and other requirements as described in this part and other Federal law and regulations.
(b) Any other method authorized by law or regulation.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
§ 309.12
Purpose.
This subpart provides Peace Corps' policies and procedures for the collection by salary offset of a Federal employee's pay to satisfy certain past due debts owed the United States Government.
§ 309.13
Scope.
(a) The provisions of this section apply to collection by salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514 of debts owed to Peace Corps and debts owed to other Federal agencies by Peace Corps' employees. Peace Corps will make reasonable and lawful efforts to administratively collect amounts owed by employees prior to initiating salary offset action. This section does not apply to debts where collection by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (
e.g.
travel advances).
(b)
References.
The following statutes and regulations apply to Peace Corps' recovery of debts due the United States by salary offset:
(1) 5 U.S.C. 5514, as amended, governing the installment collection of debts;
(2) 31 U.S.C. 3716, governing the liquidation of debts by administrative offset;
(3) 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, setting forth the minimum requirements for executive agency regulations on salary offset; and
(4) 31 CFR parts 900 through 904, the Federal Claims Collections Standards.
(c) Nothing in this subpart precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions where appropriate under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Standards.
§ 309.14
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
(a) When Peace Corps is owed a debt by an employee of another agency, the other agency shall not initiate the requested offset until Peace Corps provides the agency with a written certification that the debtor owes Peace Corps a debt (including the amount and basis of the debt and the due date of payment) and that Peace Corps has complied with these regulations.
(b) When another agency is owed the debt, Peace Corps may use salary offset against one of its employees who is indebted to another agency, if requested to do so by that agency. Such request must be accompanied by a certification that the person owes the debt (including the amount and basis of the debt and the due date of payment) and that the agency has complied with its regulations as required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K.
§ 309.15
Notice requirements before offset.
(a) Deductions under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 shall not be made unless the creditor agency first provides the employee with written notice that he/she owes a debt to the Federal Government at least 30 calendar days before salary offset is to be initiated. When Peace Corps is the creditor agency this notice of intent to offset an employee's salary shall be hand-delivered or sent by certified mail to the most current address that is available. The written notice will state:
(1) That Peace Corps has reviewed the records relating to the claim and has determined that a debt is owed, its origin and nature, and the amount of the debt;
(2) The intention of Peace Corps to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account until the debt and all accumulated interest is paid in full;
(3) The amount, frequency, approximate beginning date, and duration of the intended deductions;
(4) An explanation of the Peace Corps' policy concerning interest, penalties and administrative costs, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the FCCS (See § 309.5);
(5) The employee's right to inspect and copy all records of the Peace Corps pertaining to the debt claimed or to receive copies of such records if personal inspection is impractical;
(6) The right to a hearing conducted by a hearing official (an administrative law judge, or alternatively, an individual not under the supervision or control of the Peace Corps) with respect to the existence and amount of the debt claimed, or the repayment schedule, so long as a petition is filed by the employee as prescribed;
(7) If not previously provided, the opportunity (under terms agreeable to the Peace Corps) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset. The agreement must be in writing, signed by both the employee and the creditor agency, and documented in the creditor agency's files;
(8) The name, address and telephone number of an officer or employee of the Peace Corps who may be contacted concerning procedures for requesting a hearing;
(9) The method and time period for requesting a hearing;
(10) That the timely filing of a petition for a hearing as prescribed will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(11) The name and address of the office to which the petition should be sent;
(12) That the Peace Corps will initiate certification procedures to implement a salary offset, as appropriate, (which may not exceed 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay) not less than 30 calendar days from the date of delivery of the notice of debt, unless the employee files a timely petition for a hearing;
(13) That a final decision on the hearing (if one is requested) will be issued
at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 calendar days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing, unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(14) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations or evidence may subject the employee to:
(i) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under the Peace Corps Act or the Foreign Service Act, Peace Corps regulations, or any other applicable statutes or regulations;
(ii) Penalties under the False Claims Act, §§ 3729-3731 of title 31, United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority; and
(iii) Criminal penalties under 18 U.S.C. sections 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 or any other applicable authority;
(15) Any other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made;
(16) That unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee; and
(17) That proceedings with respect to such debt are governed by 5 U.S.C. 5514.
(b) Peace Corps is not required to provide prior notice to an employee when the following adjustments are made by Peace Corps to a Peace Corps employee's pay:
(1) Any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(2) A routine adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment, and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and point of contact for contesting the adjustment; or
(3) Any adjustment to collect a debt of $50 or less, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature of the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting the adjustment.
§ 309.16
Review.
(a)
Request for outside hearing.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an employee who desires an outside hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt or the proposed offset schedule must send a request to the office designated in the notice of intent. See § 309.15(a)(8). The request must be received by the designated office not later than 20 calendar days after the date of delivery of the notice as provided in § 309.15(a). The request must be signed by the employee and should identify and explain with reasonable specificity and brevity the facts, evidence and witnesses which the employee believes support his or her position. If the employee objects to the percentage of disposable pay to be deducted from each check, the request should state the objection and the reasons for it. The employee must also specify whether an oral hearing or a review of the documentary evidence is requested. If an oral hearing is desired, the request should explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone.
(b)
Failure to submit timely.
(1) If the employee files a petition for a review after the expiration of the 20 calendar day period provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the designated office may accept the request if the employee can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond his or her control, or because of a failure to receive the notice of the filing deadline (unless the employee has actual knowledge of the filing deadline).
(2) An employee waives the right to a review, and will have his or her disposable pay offset in accordance with Peace Corps' offset schedule, if the employee fails to file a request for a hearing unless such failure is excused as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) If the employee fails to appear at an oral hearing of which he or she was notified, unless the hearing official determines failure to appear was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control, his or her appeal will be decided on the basis of the documents then available to the hearing official.
(c)
Representation at the hearing.
The creditor agency may be represented by a representative of its choice. The employee may represent himself or herself or may be represented by an individual of his or her choice and at his or her expense.
(d)
Review of Peace Corps records related to the debt.
(1) An employee who intends to inspect or copy creditor agency records related to the debt in accordance with § 309.15(a)(5), must send a letter to the official designated in the notice of intent to offset stating his or her intention. The letter must be sent within 20 calendar days after receipt of the notice.
(2) In response to a timely request submitted by the debtor, the designated official will notify the employee of the location and time when the employee may inspect and copy records related to the debt.
(3) If personal inspection is impractical, copies of such records shall be sent to the employee.
(e)
Oral Hearing.
(1) If an employee timely files a request for an oral hearing under § 309.16(a), the matter will be conducted by a hearing official not under the supervision or control of Peace Corps.
(2)
Procedure.
(i) After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. If the hearing will be oral, notice shall set forth the date, time and location of the hearing. If the hearing will be paper, the employee shall be notified that he or she should submit arguments in writing to the hearing official by a specified date after which the record shall be closed. This date shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation.
(ii) An employee who requests an oral hearing shall be provided an oral hearing if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (
e.g.
when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). The hearing is not an adversarial adjudication, and need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing.
(iii) If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make a decision based upon a review of the available written record.
(iv) The hearing official must maintain a summary record of any hearing provided by this subpart. Witnesses who provide testimony will do so under oath or affirmation.
(3)
Decision.
The written decision shall include:
(i) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and
(iii) The terms of any repayment schedules, or the date salary offset will commence, if applicable.
(4)
Failure to appear.
In the absence of good cause shown (
e.g.
excused illness), an employee who fails to appear at a hearing shall be deemed, for the purpose of this subpart, to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice of intent. The hearing official shall schedule a new hearing upon the request of the creditor agency representative when good cause is shown.
(5) A hearing official's decision is considered to be an official certification regarding the existence and amount of the debt for purposes of executing salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514 only. It does not supersede the finding by Peace Corps that a debt is owed and does not affect the Government's ability to recoup the debt through alternative collection methods under other appropriate methods.
§ 309.17
Procedures for salary offset.
Unless otherwise provided by statute or contract, the following procedures apply to salary offset:
(a)
Method.
Salary offset will be made by deduction at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of the employee without his or her consent.
(b)
Source.
The source of salary offset is current disposable pay.
(c)
Types of collection
—(1)
Lump sum payment.
Ordinarily debts will be collected by salary offset in one lump sum if possible. However, if the amount of the debt exceeds 15 percent of disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, the collection by salary offset must be made in installment deductions.
(2)
Installment deductions.
(i) The size of installment deductions must bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. If possible, the size of the deduction will be that necessary to liquidate the debt in no more than 1 year. However, the amount deducted for any period must not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, except as provided by other regulations or unless the employee has agreed in writing to greater amount.
(ii) Installment payments of less than $25 per pay period will be accepted only in the most unusual circumstances.
(iii) Installment deductions will be made over a period of not greater than the anticipated period of employment.
§ 309.18
Voluntary repayment agreements as an alternative to salary offset.
(a) In response to a notice of intent, an employee may propose a written agreement to repay the debt as an alternative to salary offset. Any employee who wishes to repay a debt without salary offset shall submit in writing a proposed agreement to repay the debt. The proposal shall admit the existence of the debt and set forth a proposed repayment schedule. Any proposal under this paragraph must be received by the official designated in that notice within 20 calendar days after receipt of the notice of intent.
(b) When the Peace Corps is the creditor agency, in response to a timely proposal by the debtor the agency will notify the employee whether the employee's proposed written agreement for repayment is acceptable. It is within the agency's discretion to accept a repayment agreement instead of proceeding by offset.
(c) If the Peace Corps decides that the proposed repayment agreement is unacceptable, the employee will have 15 calendar days from the date he or she received notice of the decision to file a petition for a review.
(d) If the Peace Corps decides that the proposed repayment agreement is acceptable, the alternative arrangement must be in writing and signed by both the employee and a designated agency official.
§ 309.19
Waiver.
(a) Under certain circumstances, employees may have a statutory right to request a waiver of indebtedness. When an employee makes a request under a statutory right, further collection will be stayed pending an administrative determination on the request.
(b) Waiver of indebtedness is an equitable remedy and as such must be based on an assessment of the facts involved in the individual case under consideration. The burden is on the employee to demonstrate that the applicable waiver standard has been met.
§ 309.20
Compromise.
Peace Corps may attempt to effect compromise in accordance with the standards set forth in the FCCS (31 CFR part 902).
§ 309.21
Suspension of collection.
Suspension of collection action shall be made in accordance with the standards set forth in the FCCS (31 CFR 903.1-903.2).
§ 309.22
Termination of collection.
Termination of collection action shall be made in accordance with the standards set forth in the FCCS (31 CFR 903.1 and 903.3-903.4).
§ 309.23
Discharge.
Once a debt has been closed out for accounting purposes and collection has been terminated, the debt is discharged. Peace Corps will report discharged debt as income to the debtor to the Internal Revenue Service per 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1.
§ 309.24
Bankruptcy.
Peace Corps generally terminates collection activity on debts that have been discharged in bankruptcy unless otherwise provided for by bankruptcy law. The CFO will seek legal advice by
the General Counsel's office if there is the belief that any claims or offset may have survived the discharge of a debtor.
Pt. 311

# PART 311—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
311.100
Conditions on use of funds.
311.105
Definitions.
311.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
311.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
311.205
Professional and technical services.
311.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
311.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
311.400
Penalties.
311.405
Penalty procedures.
311.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
311.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
311.600
Semi-annual compilation.
311.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 311—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 311—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
Section 319, Public Law 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); 22 U.S.C. 2503.

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6749, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 311.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative ageement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in Appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 311.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer
or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 311.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000, unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement, shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 311.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 311.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 311.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 311.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered
directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 311.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 311.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 311.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 311.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section,
professional and technical services
shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable
under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 311.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
§ 311.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 311.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 311.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 311.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 311.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the
report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 311, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 311—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 311, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 311—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC13OC91.000
EC13OC91.001
EC13OC91.002
Pt. 312

# PART 312—GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
312.100
What does this part do?
312.105
Does this part apply to me?
312.110
Are any of my federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
312.115
Does this part affect the federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
312.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
312.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
312.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
312.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
312.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
312.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
312.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
312.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
312.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Peace Corps Awarding Officials
312.400
What are my responsibilities as a Peace Corps awarding official?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
312.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
312.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
312.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
312.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Subpart F—Definitions
312.605
Award.
312.610
Controlled substance.
312.615
Conviction.
312.620
Cooperative agreement.
312.625
Criminal drug statute.
312.630
Debarment.
312.635
Drug-free workplace.
312.640
Employee.
312.645
Federal agency or agency.
312.650
Grant.
312.655
Individual.
312.660
Recipient.
312.665
State.
312.670
Suspension.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2503 (b); 41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.

# Source:
68 FR 66588, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 312.100
What does this part do?
This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
§ 312.105
Does this part apply to me?
(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the Peace Corps; or
(2) A(n) Peace Corps awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 312.605 and 312.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A(n) Peace Corps awarding official
A, D and E.
§ 312.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award that the Peace Corps Director or designee determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 312.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 312.510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 312.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 312.205 through 312.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 312.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 312.230).
§ 312.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 312.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 312.205 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 312.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 312.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 312.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 312.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the Peace Corps awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 312.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 312.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either—
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 312.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each Peace Corps award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces—
(1) To the Peace Corps official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by Peace Corps officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (
e.g.
, all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the Peace Corps awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the Peace Corps awarding official.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 312.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a(n) Peace Corps award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any
award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the Peace Corps awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 312.301 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 312.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Peace Corps Awarding Officials
§ 312.400
What are my responsibilities as a(n) Peace Corps awarding official?
As a(n) Peace Corps awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 312.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Peace Corps Director or designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 312.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Peace Corps Director or designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 312.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 312.500 or § 312.505, the Peace Corps may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 22 CFR part 310, for a period not to exceed five years.
§ 312.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The Peace Corps Director may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the Peace Corps Director determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 312.605
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the Peace Corps or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the grant is exempted from coverage under the Governmentwide rule [Agency-specific CFR citation] that implements OMB Circular A-102 (for availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3) and specifies uniform administrative requirements.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (
i.e.
, any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, this paragraph is not applicable for the Peace Corps.
§ 312.610
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 312.615
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 312.620
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 312.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 312.625
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 312.630
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
§ 312.635
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 312.640
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (
e.g.
, volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 312.645
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 312.650
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 312.655
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 312.660
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 312.665
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 312.670
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
Pt. 313

# PART 313—GUIDANCE PROCEDURES
Sec.
313.1
General; definition of “guidance documents” covered by this part.
313.2
Guidance documents; required elements.
313.3
Public access to guidance documents.
313.4
Definition of “significant guidance document.”
313.5
Procedures for guidance documents identified as “significant.”
313.6
Notice-and-comment procedures.
313.7
Petition procedures for withdrawal or modification of a guidance document.
313.8
No judicial review or enforceable rights.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2501
et seq.

# Source:
85 FR 73419, Nov. 18, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 313.1
General; definition of “guidance documents” covered by this part.
(a) This part governs Peace Corps (Agency) employees and contractors involved with all phases of issuing Agency guidance documents.
(b) For purposes of this part, the term “guidance document” means a statement of Agency policy or interpretation concerning a statute, regulation, or technical matter within the jurisdiction of the Agency intended to have general applicability and future effect on the behavior of the public, but which is not intended to have the force or effect of law and is not otherwise required by statute to satisfy the rulemaking procedures specified in 5 U.S.C. 553 or 5 U.S.C. 556. The term is not limited to formal written documents and may include, without limitation, letters, memoranda, circulars, bulletins, advisories, as well as video, audio, and web-based formats.
See
OMB Bulletin 07-02, “Agency Good Guidance Practices,” (January 25, 2007) (“OMB Good Guidance Bulletin”).
(c) The following shall not be considered “guidance documents” for purposes of this part:
(1) Rules exempt from rulemaking requirements under 5 U.S.C. 553(a);
(2) Rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice;
(3) Decisions of agency adjudications under 5 U.S.C. 554 or similar statutory provisions;
(4) Internal executive branch legal advice or legal advisory opinions addressed to executive branch officials;
(5) Agency statements of specific applicability, including advisory or legal opinions directed to particular parties about circumstance-specific questions (
e.g.,
case or investigatory letters responding to complaints, warning letters), notices regarding particular locations or facilities (
e.g.,
guidance pertaining to the use, operation, or control of a government facility or property), and correspondence with individual persons or entities (
e.g.,
congressional correspondence), except documents ostensibly directed to a particular party but designed to guide the conduct of the broader regulated public;
(6) Legal briefs, other court filings, or positions taken in litigation or enforcement actions;
(7) Agency statements that do not set forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue or an interpretation of a statute or regulation, including speeches and individual presentations, editorials, media interviews, press materials, or congressional testimony that do not set forth for the first time a new regulatory policy;
(8) Guidance pertaining to military or foreign affairs functions;
(9) Grant solicitations and awards;
(10) Contract solicitations and awards; or
(11) Purely internal Agency policies or guidance directed solely to Agency employees, contractors, volunteers, trainees, or invitees or to other Federal agencies that are not intended to have substantial future effect on the behavior of regulated parties.
(d) The Peace Corps will not cite, use, or rely upon a guidance document that is rescinded, except for the purpose of establishing historical fact. Guidance documents not on an Agency website, as set forth in this part, are considered to be rescinded.
§ 313.2
Guidance documents; required elements.
Each guidance document proposed to be issued by the Agency shall:
(a) Comply with all relevant statutes and regulation;
(b) Identify or include for each guidance document:
(1) The term “guidance” or its functional equivalent;
(2) A unique identifier;
(3) The issuance date, posting date, and the issuing office within the Agency;
(4) The activity or entities to which the guidance applies;
(5) Citations to applicable statutes and regulations;
(6) A statement noting whether the guidance is intended to revise or replace any previously issued guidance and, if so, sufficient information to identify the previously issued guidance; and
(7) A summary of the subject matter covered in the guidance document at the top of the document.
(c) Avoid use of mandatory language, such as “shall,” “must,” “required,” or “requirement,” unless the language is describing an established statutory or regulatory requirement or is addressed to Agency's staff and will not foreclose the Agency's consideration of positions advanced by affected private parties;
(d) Be written in plain, understandable English; and
(e) Clearly and prominently state that the contents of the document do not have the force and effect of law and are not meant to bind the public, and the document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or Agency policies.
§ 313.3
Public access to guidance documents.
The Agency, whenever it issues a guidance document as defined in this part, shall:
(a) Ensure it is identified by the document's title and date of issuance or revision and is placed on its website within a single, searchable, indexed database, and available to the public;
(b) Note on an Agency website that guidance documents lack the force and effect of law, except as authorized by law or as incorporated into a contract;
(c) Maintain and advertise on an Agency website a means for the public to comment electronically on guidance documents that are subject to the notice-and-comment procedures and to
submit requests electronically for issuance, reconsideration, modification, or rescission of guidance documents in accordance with § 313.6; and
(d) Designate the Office of the General Counsel to receive and address any complaints from the public that the Agency is not following the requirements of E.O 13891, entitled “Promoting the Rule of Law through Improved Agency Guidance Documents” (October 9, 2019), or is improperly treating a guidance document as a binding requirement.
§ 313.4
Definition of “significant guidance document.”
(a) A “significant guidance document” is a guidance document that will be disseminated to the general public and that may reasonably be anticipated:
(1) To lead to an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the U.S. economy, a sector of the U.S. economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities;
(2) To create serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another Federal agency;
(3) To alter materially the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or
(4) To raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in E.O. 12866, as further amended.
(b) The term “significant guidance document” does not include the categories of documents excluded by § 313.1(c) or any other category of guidance documents exempted by the Agency in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OMB/OIRA).
(c) Significant guidance documents must be reviewed by OMB/OIRA under E.O. 12866 before issuance; and must demonstrate compliance with the applicable requirements for regulations or rules, including significant regulatory actions, set forth in E.O. 12866, E.O. 13563, E.O. 13609, E.O. 13771 and E.O. 13777.
§ 313.5
Procedures for guidance documents identified as “significant.”
(a) Whenever a guidance document is proposed to be issued by the Agency, a copy of the proposed guidance document will be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel and provided to OMB/OIRA for a “significance” determination pursuant to Executive Order 12866.
(b) Following review and an affirmative “significance” determination by OMB/OIRA pursuant to Executive Order 12866, the guidance document will be reviewed by the Senior Policy Committee which may recommend that it be approved by the Director for issuance as a “significant” guidance document and the Agency may issue the guidance following approval by the Director.
(c) If the guidance document is determined by OMB/OIRA not to be “significant” within the meaning of § 313.4, the Agency or office within the Agency may proceed to issue the guidance.
§ 313.6
Notice-and-comment procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any proposed Peace Corps guidance document determined to be “significant” within the meaning of § 313.4 shall be subject to the following notice-and-comment procedures. The Agency shall publish a notification in the
Federal Register
announcing that a draft of the proposed guidance document is publicly available, shall post the draft guidance document on its website, shall invite public comment on the draft document for a minimum of 30 days, and shall prepare and post a public response to major concerns raised in the comments, as appropriate, on its website, either before or when the guidance document is finalized and issued.
(b) The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to any significant guidance document or categories of significant guidance documents for which the Agency finds, in consultation with OMB/OIRA, that notice and public comment thereon are
impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest.
§ 313.7
Petition procedures for withdrawal or modification of a guidance document.
Any member of the public may submit a petition to the Peace Corps requesting the Agency to consider withdrawing or modifying any guidance document. Such requests shall be sent by email to
policy@peacecorps.gov
or mailed to the Peace Corps, Office of the General Counsel, 1275 First St. NW, Washington, DC 20526. The Peace Corps will respond to a petition within 90 days of receipt by the Agency.
§ 313.8
No judicial review or enforceable rights.
This part is intended to improve the internal management of the Peace Corps. As such, it is for the use of Agency personnel only and is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its agencies or other entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
PARTS 314-399 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. IV (4-1-25 Edition)
Internat'l Joint Comm., U.S. and Canada

# CHAPTER IV—INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND CANADA
Part
Page
400
[Reserved]
401
Rules of procedure
79
402-499
[Reserved]
PART 400 [RESERVED]
Pt. 401

# PART 401—RULES OF PROCEDURE

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
401.1
Definitions.
401.2
Chairmen.
401.3
Permanent offices.
401.4
Duties of secretaries.
401.5
Meetings.
401.6
Service of documents.
401.7
Conduct of hearings.
401.8
Decision by the whole Commission.
401.9
Suspension or amendment of rules.
401.10
General rule.
401.11
Availability of records.

# Subpart B—Applications
401.12
Presentation to Commission.
401.13
Copies required.
401.14
Authorization by Government.
401.15
Notice of publication.
401.16
Statement in response
401.17
Statement in reply.
401.18
Supplemental or amended applications and statements.
401.19
Reducing or extending time and dispensing with statements.
401.20
Interested persons and counsel.
401.21
Consultation.
401.22
Attendance of witnesses and production of documents.
401.23
Hearings.
401.24
Expenses of proceedings.
401.25
Government brief regarding navigable waters.

# Subpart C—References
401.26
Presentation to Commission.
401.27
Notice and publication.
401.28
Advisory boards.
401.29
Hearings.
401.30
Proceedings under Article X.

# Authority:
Art. XII, 36 Stat. 2453.

# Source:
30 FR 3379, Mar. 13, 1965, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 401.1
Definitions.
(a) In the construction of the regulations in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, words importing the singular number shall include the plural and words importing the plural number shall include the singular; and,
(b)
Applicant
means the Government or person on whose behalf on application is presented to the Commission in accordance with § 401.12;
(c)
Government
means the Government of Canada or the Government of the United States of America;
(d)
Person
includes Province, State, department or agency of a Province or State, municipality, individual, partnership, corporation and association, but does not include the Government of Canada or the Government of the United States of America;
(e)
Oath
includes affirmation;
(f)
Reference
means the document by which a question or matter of difference is referred to the Commission pursuant to Article IX of the Treaty;
(g)
The Treaty
means the Treaty between the United States of America and His Majesty the King, dated the 11th day of January 1909;
(h)
Canadian section consists of the commissioners appointed by Her Majesty on the recommendation of the Governor in Council of Canada;
(i)
United States section
consists of the Commissioners appointed by the President of the United States.
§ 401.2
Chairmen.
(a) The commissioners of the United States section of the Commission shall appoint one of their number as chairman, to be known as the Chairman of the United States Section of the International Joint Commission, and he shall act as chairman at all meetings of the Commission held in the United States and in respect to all matters required to be done in the United States by the chairman of the Commission.
(b) The commissioners of the Canadian section of the Commission shall appoint one of their number as chairman, to be known as the Chairman of the Canadian Section of the International Joint Commission, and he shall act as chairman at all meetings of the Commission held in Canada and in respect to all matters required to be done in Canada by the chairman of the Commission.
(c) In case it shall be impracticable for the chairman of either section to act in any matter, the commissioner of such section who is senior in order of appointment shall act in his stead.
§ 401.3
Permanent offices.
The permanent offices of the Commission shall be at Washington, in the
District of Columbia, and at Ottawa, in the Province of Ontario, and, subject to the directions of the respective chairmen acting for their respective sections, the secretaries of the United States and Canadian sections of the Commission shall have full charge and control of said offices, respectively.
§ 401.4
Duties of secretaries.
(a) The secretaries shall act as joint secretaries at all meetings and hearings of the Commission. The secretary of the section of the Commission of the country in which a meeting or hearing is held shall prepare a record thereof and each secretary shall preserve an authentic copy of the same in the permanent offices of the Commission.
(b) Each secretary shall receive and file all applications, references and other papers properly presented to the Commission in any proceeding instituted before it and shall number in numerical order all such applications and references; the number given to an application or reference shall be the primary file number for all papers relating to such application or reference.
(c) Each secretary shall forward to the other for filing in the office of the other copies of all official letters, documents, records or other papers received by him or filed in his office, pertaining to any proceeding before the Commission, to the end that there shall be on file in each office either the original or a copy of all official letters and other papers, relating to the said proceeding.
(d) Each secretary shall also forward to the other for filing in the office of the other copies of any letters, documents or other papers received by him or filed in his office which are deemed by him to be of interest to the Commission.
§ 401.5
Meetings.
(a) Subject at all times to special call or direction by the two Governments, meetings of the Commission shall be held at such times and places in the United States and Canada as the Commission or the Chairman may determine and in any event shall be held each year at Washington in April and at Ottawa in October, beginning ordinarily on the first Tuesday of the said months.
(b) If the Commission determines that a meeting shall be open to the public, it shall give such advance notice to this effect as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
§ 401.6
Service of documents.
(a) Where the secretary is required by the regulations in this part to give notice to any person, this shall be done by delivering or mailing such notice to the person at the address for service that the said person has furnished to the Commission, or if no such address has been furnished, at the dwelling house or usual place of abode or usual place of business of such person.
(b) Where the secretary is required by the regulations in this part to give notice to a Government, this shall be done by delivering or mailing such notice to the Secretary of State for External Affairs of Canada or to the Secretary of State of the United States of America, as the case may be.
(c) Service of any document pursuant to § 401.22 shall be by delivering a copy thereof to the person named therein, or by leaving the same at the dwelling house or usual place of abode or usual place of business of such person. The person serving the notice or request shall furnish an affidavit to the secretary stating the time and place of such service.
§ 401.7
Conduct of hearings.
Hearings may be conducted, testimony received and arguments thereon heard by the whole Commission or by one or more Commissioners from each section of the Commission, designated for that purpose by the respective sections or the Chairman thereof.
§ 401.8
Decision by the whole Commission.
The whole Commission shall consider and determine any matter or question which the Treaty or any other treaty or international agreement, either in terms or by implication, requires or makes it the duty of the Commission to determine. For the purposes of this section and § 401.7, “the whole Commission” means all of the commissioners appointed pursuant to Article VII of the Treaty whose terms of office have not expired and who are not prevented
by serious illness or other circumstances beyond their control from carrying out their functions as commissioners. In no event shall a decision be made without the concurrence of at least four commissioners.
§ 401.9
Suspension or amendment of rules.
The commission may suspend, repeal, or amend all or any of the rules of procedure at any time, with the concurrence of at least four commissioners. Both Governments shall be informed forthwith of any such action.
§ 401.10
General rule.
The Commission may, at any time, adopt any procedure which it deems expedient and necessary to carry out the true intent and meaning of the Treaty.
§ 401.11
Availability of records.
(a) The following items in the official records of the Commission shall be available for public information at the permanent offices of the Commission.
Applications.
References.
Public Notices.
Press Releases.
Statements in Response.
Statements in Reply.
Records of hearings, including exhibits filed.
Brief and formal Statements submitted at hearings or at other times.
(b) Decisions rendered and orders issued by the Commission and formal opinions of any of the Commissioners with relation thereto, shall be available similarly for public information after duplicate originals of the decisions or orders have been transmitted to and filed with the Governments pursuant to Article XI of the Treaty.
(c) Copies of reports submitted to one or both of the Governments pursuant to the Treaty shall be available similarly for public information only with the consent of the Government or Governments to whom the reports are addressed.
(d) Reports, letters, memoranda and other communications addressed to the Commissions, by boards or committees created by or at the request of the Commission, are privileged and shall become available for public information only in accordance with a decision of the Commission to that effect.
(e) Except as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this section, records of deliberations, and documents, letters, memoranda and communications of every nature and kind in the official records of the Commission, whether addressed to or by the Commission, commissioners, secretaries, advisers or any of them, are privileged and shall become available for public information only in accordance with a decision of the Commission to that effect.
(f) A copy of any document, report, record or other paper which under this section is available for public information may be furnished to any person upon payment of any cost involved in its reproduction.

# Subpart B—Applications
§ 401.12
Presentation to Commission.
(a) Where one or the other of the Governments on its own initiative seeks the approval of the commission for the use, obstruction or diversion of waters with respect to which under Articles III or IV of the Treaty the approval of the Commission is required, it shall present to the Commission an application setting forth as fully as may be necessary for the information of the Commission the facts upon which the application is based and the nature of the order of approval desired.
(b) Where a person seeks the approval of the Commission for the use, obstruction or diversion of waters with respect to which under Articles III or IV of the Treaty the approval of the Commission is required, he shall prepare an application to the Commission and forward it to the Government within whose jurisdiction such use, obstruction or diversion is to be made, with the request that the said application be transmitted to the Commission. If such Government transmits the application to the Commission with a request that it take appropriate action thereon, the same shall be filed by the Commission in the same manner as an application presented in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. Transmittal of the application to the Commission shall not be construed as authorization
by the Government of the use, obstruction or diversion proposed by the applicant. All applications by persons shall conform, as to their contents, to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Where the Commission has issued an Order approving a particular use, obstruction or diversion, in which it has specifically retained jurisdiction over the subject matter of an application and has reserved the right to make further orders relating thereto, any Government or person entitled to request the issuance of such further order may present to the Commission a request, setting forth the facts upon which it is based and the nature of the further order desired. On receipt of the request, the Commission shall proceed in accordance with the terms of the Order in which the Commission specifically retained jurisdiction. In each case the secretaries shall notify both Governments and invite their comments before the request is complied with.
§ 401.13
Copies required.
(a) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, two duplicate originals and fifty copies of the application and of any supplemental application, statement in response, supplemental statement in response, statement in reply and supplemental statement in reply shall be delivered to either secretary. On receipt of such documents, the secretary shall forthwith send one duplicate original and twenty-five copies to the other secretary.
(b) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, two copies of such drawings, profiles, plans or survey, maps and specifications as may be necessary to illustrate clearly the matter of the application shall be delivered to either secretary and he shall send one copy forthwith to the other secretary.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, such additional copies of the documents mentioned therein as may be requested by the Commission shall be provided forthwith.
§ 401.14
Authorization by Government.
(a) Where the use, obstruction or diversion of waters for which the Commission's approval is sought has been authorized by or on behalf of a Government or by or on behalf of a State or Province or other competent authority, two copies of such authorization and of any plans approved incidental thereto shall accompany the application when it is presented to the Commission in accordance with § 401.12.
(b) Where such a use, obstruction or diversion of waters is authorized by or on behalf of a Government or by or on behalf of a State or Province or other competent authority after an application has been presented to the Commission in accordance with § 401.12, the applicant shall deliver forthwith to the Commission two copies of such authorization and of any plans approved incidental thereto.
§ 401.15
Notice of publication.
(a) As soon as practicable after an application is presented or transmitted in accordance with § 401.12, the secretary of the section of the Commission appointed by the other Government shall send a copy of the application to such Government.
(b) Except as otherwise provided pursuant to § 401.19, the secretaries, as soon as practicable after the application is received, shall cause a notice to be published in the Canada Gazette and the
Federal Register
and once each week for three successive weeks in two newspapers, published one in each country and circulated in or near the localities which, in the opinion of the Commission, are most likely to be affected by the proposed use, obstruction or diversion. Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, the notice shall state that the application has been received, the nature and locality of the proposed use, obstruction or diversion, the time within which any person interested may present a statement in response to the Commission and that the Commission will hold a hearing or hearings at which all persons interested are entitled to be heard with respect thereto.
(c) If the Commission so directs, the notice referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, appropriately modified, may be combined with the notice of hearing referred to in § 401.24 and published accordingly.
§ 401.16
Statement in response.
(a) Except as otherwise provided pursuant to § 410.19, a Government and any interested person, other than the applicant, may present a statement in response to the Commission within thirty days after the filing of an application. A statement in response shall set forth facts and arguments bearing on the subject matter of the application and tending to oppose or support the application, in whole or in part. If it is desired that conditional approval be granted, the statement in response should set forth the particular condition or conditions desired. An address for service of documents should be included in the statement in response.
(b) When a statement in response has been filed, the secretaries shall send a copy forthwith to the applicant and to each Government except the Government which presented the said statement in response. If so directed by the Commission, the secretaries shall inform those who have presented statements in response, of the nature of the total response.
§ 401.17
Statement in reply.
(a) Except as otherwise provided pursuant to § 410.19, the applicant and, if he is a person, the Government which transmitted the application on his behalf, one or both may present a statement or statements in reply to the Commission within thirty days after the time provided for presenting statements in response. A statement in reply shall set forth facts and arguments bearing upon the allegations and arguments contained in the statements in response.
(b) When a statement in reply has been filed, the secretary shall send a copy forthwith to each Government except the Government which presented the said statement in reply, and to all persons who presented statements in response.
§ 401.18
Supplemental or amended applications and statements.
(a) If it appears to the Commission that either an application, a statement in response or a statement in reply is not sufficiently definite and complete, the Commission may require a more definite and complete application, statement in response or statement in reply, as the case may be, to be presented.
(b) Where substantial justice requires it, the Commission with the concurrence of at least four Commissioners may allow the amendment of any application, statement in response, statement in reply and any document or exhibit which has been presented to the Commission.
§ 401.19
Reducing or extending time and dispensing with statements.
In any case where the Commission considers that such action would be in the public interest and not prejudicial to the right of interested persons to be heard in accordance with Article XII of the Treaty, the Commission may reduce or extend the time for the presentation of any paper or the doing of any act required by these rules or may dispense with the presentation of statements in response and statements in reply.
§ 401.20
Interested persons and counsel.
Governments and persons interested in the subject matter of an application, whether in favor of or opposed to is, are entitled to be heard in person or by counsel at any hearing thereof held by the Commission.
§ 401.21
Consultation.
The Commission may meet or consult with the applicant, the Governments and other persons or their counsel at any time regarding the plan of hearing, the mode of conducting the inquiry, the admitting or proof of certain facts or for any other purpose.
§ 401.22
Attendance of witnesses and production of documents.
(a) Requests for the attendance and examination of witnesses and for the production and inspection of books, papers and documents may be issued over the signature of the secretary of the section of the Commission of the country in which the witnesses reside or the books, papers or documents may be, when so authorized by the Chairman of that section.
(b) All applications for subpoena or other process to compel the attendance
of witnesses or the production of books, papers and documents before the Commission shall be made to the proper courts of either country, as the case may be, upon the order of the Commission.
§ 401.23
Hearings.
(a) The time and place of the hearing or hearings of an application shall be fixed by the Chairmen of the two sections.
(b) The secretaries shall forthwith give written notice of the time and place of the hearing or hearings to the applicant, the Governments and all persons who have presented statements in response to the Commission. Except as otherwise provided by the Commission, the secretaries shall also cause such notice to be published in the Canada Gazette and the
Federal Register
and once each week for three successive weeks in two newspapers, published one in each country and circulated in or near the localities which, in the opinion of the Commission, are most likely to be affected by the proposed use, obstruction or diversion of water.
(c) All hearings shall be open to the public.
(d) The applicant, the Governments and persons interested are entitled to present oral and documentary evidence and argument that is relevant and material to any issue that is before the Commission in connection with the application.
(e) The presiding chairman may require that evidence to be under oath.
(f) Witnesses may be examined and cross-examined by the Commissioners and by counsel for the applicant, the Governments and the Commission. With the consent of the presiding chairman, cousel for a person other than the applicant may also examine or cross-examine witnesses.
(g) The Commission may require further evidence to be given and may require printed briefs to be submitted at or subsequent to the hearing.
(h) The Commissioners shall be free to determine the probative value of the evidence submitted to it.
(i) A verbatim transcript of the proceedings at the hearing shall be prepared.
(j) The hearing of the application, when once begun, shall proceed at the times and places determined by the Chairmen of the two sections to ensure the greatest practicable continuity and dispatch of proceedings.
§ 401.24
Expenses of proceedings.
(a) The expenses of those participating in any proceeding under this subpart B shall be borne by the participants.
(b) The Commission, after due notice to the participant or participants concerned, may require that any unusual cost or expense to the Commission shall be paid by the person on whose behalf or at whose request such unusual cost or expense has been or will be incurred.
§ 401.25
Government brief regarding navigable waters.
When in the opinion of the Commission it is desirable that a decision should be rendered which affects navigable waters in a manner or to an extent different from that contemplated by the application and plans presented to the Commission, the Commission will, before making a final decision, submit to the Government presenting or transmitting the application a draft of the decision, and such Government may transmit to the Commission a brief or memorandum thereon which will receive due consideration by the Commission before its decision is made final.

# Subpart C—References
§ 401.26
Presentation to Commission.
(a) Where a question or matter of difference arising between the two Governments involving the rights, obligations, or interests of either in relation to the other or to the inhabitants of the other along the common frontier between the United States of America and Canada is to be referred to the Commission under Article IX of the Treaty, the method of brining such question or matter to the attention of the Commission and invoking its action ordinarily will be as set forth in this section.
(b) Where both Governments have agreed to refer such a question or matter to the Commission, each Government will present to the Commission, at the permanent office in its country, a reference in similar or identical terms setting forth as fully as may be necessary for the information of the Commission the question or matter which it is to examine into the report upon and any restrictions or exceptions which may be imposed upon the Commission with respect thereto.
(c) Where one of the Governments, on its own initiative, has decided to refer such a question or matter to the Commission, it will present a reference to the Commission at the permanent office in its country. All such references should conform, as to their contents, to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Such drawings, plans of survey and maps as may be necessary to illustrate clearly the question or matter referred should accompany the reference when it is presented to the Commission.
§ 401.27
Notice and publication.
(a) The secretary to whom a reference is presented shall receive and file the same and shall send a copy forthwith to the other secretary for filing in the office of the latter. If the reference is presented by one Government only, the other secretary shall send a copy forthwith to his Government.
(b) Subject to any restrictions or exceptions which may be imposed upon the Commission by the terms of the reference, and unless otherwise provided by the Commission, the secretaries, as soon as practicable after the reference is received, shall cause a notice to be published in the Canada Gazette, the
Federal Register
and in two newspapers, published one in each country and circulated in or near the localities which, in the opinion of the Commission, are most likely to be interested in the subject matter of the reference. The notice shall describe the subject matter of reference in general terms invite interested persons to inform the Commission of the nature of their interest and state that the Commission will provide convenient opportunity for interested persons to be heard with respect thereto.
§ 401.28
Advisory boards.
(a) The Commission may appoint a board or boards, composed of qualified persons, to conduct on its behalf investigations and studies that may be necessary or desirable and to report to the Commission regarding any questions or matters involved in the subject matter of the reference.
(b) Such board ordinarily will have an equal number of members from each country.
(c) The Commission ordinarily will make copies of the main or final report of such board or a digest thereof available for examination by the Governments and interested persons prior to holding the final hearing or hearings referred to in § 401.29.
§ 401.29
Hearings.
(a) A hearing or hearings may be held whenever in the opinion of the Commission such action would be helpful to the Commission in complying with the terms of a reference. Subject to any restrictions or exceptions which may be imposed by the terms of the reference, a final hearing or hearings shall be held before the Commission reports to Government in accordance with the terms of the reference.
(b) The time, place and purpose of the hearing or hearings on a reference shall be fixed by the chairmen of the two sections.
(c) The secretaries shall forthwith give written notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing or hearings to each Government and to persons who have advised the Commission of their interest. Unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the secretaries shall also cause such notice to be published in the Canada Gazette, the
Federal Register
and once each week for three successive weeks in two newspapers, published one in each country and circulated in or near the localities which, in the opinion of the Commission, are most likely to be interested in the subject matter of the reference.
(d) All hearings shall be open to the public, unless otherwise determined by the Commission.
(e) At a hearing, the Governments and persons interested are entitled to present, in person or by counsel, oral and documentary evidence and argument that is relevant and material to any matter that is within the published purpose of the hearing.
(f) The presiding chairman may require that evidence be under oath.
(g) Witnesses may be examined and cross-examined by the Commissioners and by counsel for the Governments and the Commission. With the consent of presiding chairman, counsel for any interested person may also examine or cross-examine witnesses.
(h) The Commission may require further evidence to be given and may require printed briefs to be submitted at or subsequent to the hearing.
(i) A verbatim transcript of the proceedings at the hearing shall be prepared.
§ 401.30
Proceedings under Article X.
When a question or matter of difference arising between the two Governments involving the rights, obligations or interests of either in relation to the other or to their respective inhabitants has been or is to be referred to the Commission for decision under Article X of the Treaty, the Commission, after consultation with the said Governments, will adopt such rules of procedure as may be appropriate to the question or matter referred or to be referred.
PARTS 402-499 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. V (4-1-25 Edition)
United States Agency for Global Media

# CHAPTER V—UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR GLOBAL MEDIA

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to chapter V appear at 64 FR 54539, Oct. 7, 1999.
Part
Page
500
[Reserved]
501
Appointment of Foreign Service officers
89
502
Domestic requests for Broadcasting Board of Governors Program materials
96
503
Freedom of Information Act regulation
99
504
Testimony by BBG employees, production of official records, and disclosure of official information in legal proceedings
112
505
Privacy Act regulation
117
506
Part-time career employment program
123
507
Rules for implementing open meetings under the Sunshine Act for the Broadcasting Board of Governors
124
510
Service of process
127
511
Federal tort claims procedure
127
512
Collection of debts under the Debt Collection Act of 1982
129
513
Government debarment and suspension (nonprocurement) and governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (grants)
140
519
New restrictions on lobbying
159
521
Implementation of the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act
169
530
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Broadcasting Board of Governors
185
531-599
[Reserved]
PART 500 [RESERVED]
Pt. 501

# PART 501—APPOINTMENT OF FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS
Sec.
501.1
Policy.
501.2
Eligibility for appointment as Foreign Service Officer.
501.3
Noncompetitive interchange between Civil Service and Foreign Service.
501.4
Junior Level Career Candidate Program (Class 6, 5, or 4).
501.5
Mid-Level FSO Candidate Program (Class 3, 2, or 1).
501.6
Appointment of Overseas Specialists.
501.7
Appointment as Chief of Mission.
501.8
Reappointment of Foreign Service Officers and Career Overseas Specialists.
501.9
Interchange of FSOs between Broadcasting Board of Governors and other Foreign Affairs Agencies.

# Authority:
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3901
et seq.
).

# Source:
50 FR 27423, July 3, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 501.1
Policy.
It is the policy of the Broadcasting Board of Governors that Foreign Service Officers occupy positions in which there is a need and reasonable opportunity for interchangeability of personnel between the Board and posts abroad, and which are concerned with (a) the conduct, observation, or analysis of information and cultural activities, or (b) the executive management of, or administrative responsibility for, the overseas operations of the Board's program.
§ 501.2
Eligibility for appointment as Foreign Service Officer.
Cross-reference:
The regulations governing eligibility for appointment as a Foreign Service Officer are codified in part 11 of this title.
§ 501.3
Noncompetitive interchange between Civil Service and Foreign Service.
(a) An agreement between the Office of Personnel Management and the Board under the provisions of Executive Order 11219 (3 CFR 1964-65 Comp. p. 303) provides for the noncompetitive appointment of present or former Foreign Service employees as career or career conditional Civil Service employees.
(b) Under this agreement former career personnel of the Board's Foreign Service (FSCR, FSRU, FSIO, FSS, FSO, or FP) and such present personnel desiring to transfer, are eligible, under certain conditions, for noncompetitive career or career-conditional appointment in any Federal agency that desires to appoint them. The President has authorized the Office of Personnel Management by executive order to waive the requirements for competitive examination and appointment for such Board career Foreign Service personnel.
(c) A present or former Civil Service employee may be appointed on a competitive basis in any Foreign Service class for which the employee has qualified under the provisions of section 3947 of title 22, United States Code.
§ 501.4
Junior Level Career Candidate Program (Class 6, 5, or 4).
Cross-reference:
The regulations governing the junior level Career Candidate program are codified in part 11 of this title.
§ 501.5
Mid-level FSO Candidate Program (Class 3, 2, or 1).
(a)
General.
The mid-level FSO Candidate program, under the provisions of section 306 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, supplements the junior-level Career Candidate program to meet total requirements for Foreign Service Officers at the mid-level in the Foreign Service. Foreign Service limited appointments of FSO Candidates are made to Class 3, 2, or 1 for a period not to exceed five years. Occasionally, appointments may be offered at the Class 4 level. The FSO Commissioning Board will determine whether FSO Candidates have performed at a satisfactory level and demonstrated the required level of growth potential and competence, and will make a recommendation on commissioning as Foreign Service Officers. FSO Candidates who are not recommended for commissioning prior to the expiration of their limited appointment will be separated from the mid-level program.
(b)
Sources of applicants.
(1) The Broadcasting Board of Governors draws
a significant number of FSO Candidates from Board employees who apply, and are found qualified by the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service (BEX).
(2) The Board also draws Candidates from outside applicants who possess skills and abilities in short supply in the Foreign Service and who have capabilities, insights, techniques, experiences, and differences of outlook which would serve to enrich the Foreign Service and enable them to perform effectively in assignments both abroad and in the United States. Minority applicants are recruited for mid-level entry under the COMRAT program. Appointment from sources outside the Board is limited and based on intake levels established in accordance with total Broadcasting Board of Governors FSO workforce and functional requirements. Such appointments are based on successful completion of the examination process, and existing assignment vacancies.
(c)
Eligibility requirement
—(1)
Broadcasting Board of Governors Employees.
On the date of application, employees must have at least three years of Federal Government service in a position of responsibility in the Board. A position of responsibility is defined as service as an Overseas Specialist at Class 4 or above or as a Domestic Specialist at GS-11 or above within the Board. The duties and responsibilities of the position occupied by the applicant must have been similar or closely related to those of a Foreign Service Officer in terms of knowledge, skills, abilities, and overseas experience. Board Domestic and Overseas Specialists must be no more than 58 years of age on the date of redesignation or appointment as an FSO Candidate.
(2)
Applicants Under Special Recruitment Programs.
Minority and women applicants must be no more than 58 years of age, must have approximately nine years of education or experience relevant to work performed in Broadcasting Board of Governors, must be knowledgeable in the social, political and cultural history of the U.S. and be able to analyze and interpret this in relation to U.S. Government policy and American life.
(3)
Outside Applicants.
On the date of appointment, applicants must be no more than 58 years of age, with nine years of relevant work experience and/or education, or proficiency in a language for which the Board has a need, or substantial management expertise. Relevant work experience is defined as public relations work, supervisory or managerial positions in communications media, program director for a museum or university-level teacher of political science, history, English or other relevant disciplines. Appointments from these sources for the limited vacancies available are made on a competitive basis to fill specific Service needs after ensuring that the vacancies cannot be filled by Foreign Service Officers already in the Foreign Service Officer Corps.
(d)
Application Procedures.
(1) Applicants must complete Standard Form 171, Application for Federal Employment; Form DSP-34, Supplement to Application for Federal Employment; a 1,000 word autobiography; a statement affirming willingness and capacity to serve at any post worldwide; and transcripts of all graduate and undergraduate course work and forward them to the Special Recruitment Branch, Office of Personnel (M/PDSE).
(2) The filing of an application for the Foreign Service does not in itself entitle an applicant to examination. The decision to proceed with an oral examination is made by a Qualifications Evaluation Panel after determining the applicant's eligibility for appointment and reviewing the applicant's qualifications including his/her performance, and administrative files (or equivalents), claimed language proficiency and other background or factors which may be related to the work performed by FSOs. An oral examination is given only in those cases where the applicant is found to possess superior qualifications, proven ability, and high potential for success in the Foreign Service.
(e)
Examination process
—(1)
Written Examination.
A written examination will not normally be required of applicants for FSO Candidate appointments. However, if the volume of applications for a given class or classes is such as to make it infeasible to examine applicants orally within a reasonable time,
such applicants may be required to take an appropriate written examination prescribed by the Board of Examiners. Those who meet or exceed the passing level set by the Board of Examiners on the written examination will be eligible for selection for the oral examination.
(2)
Oral examination.
(i) Applicants approved by the Qualifications Evaluation Panel for examination will be given an oral examination by a panel of Deputy Examiners approved by the Board of Examiners. The oral examination is designed to enable the Board of Examiners to determine whether applicants are functionally qualified for work in the Foreign Service at the mid-level, whether they would be suitable representatives abroad of the United States, whether they have the potential to advance in the Foreign Service, and whether they have the background and experience to make a contribution to the Foreign Service. The oral examination is individually scheduled throughout the year and is normally given in Washington, D.C. At the discretion of the Board of Examiners, it may be given in other American cities, or at Foreign Service posts, selected by the Board.
(ii) The panel will orally examine each applicant through questioning and discussion. There will also be a writing exercise and an in-basket test. Applicants taking the oral examination will be graded according to the standards established by the Board of Examiners. The application of anyone whose score is at or above the passing level set by the Board will be continued. The application of anyone whose score is below the passing level will be terminated. The applicant may, however, reapply in 12 months by submitting a new application.
(3)
Foreign language requirement.
All applicants who pass the oral examination will be required to take a subsequent test to measure their fluency in foreign languages, or their aptitude for learning them (MLAT) for which a score of 50 points (on a scale of zero to eighty) is necessary to qualify for further processing. No applicant will be recommended for career appointment who has not demonstrated such a proficiency or aptitude. An applicant may be selected, appointed and assigned without first having demonstrated required proficiency in a foreign language, but the appointment will be subject to the condition that the employee may not receive more than one promotion and may not be commissioned as an FSO until proficiency in one foreign language is achieved.
(4)
Medical examination.
Those applicants recommended by the Board of Examiners for an FSO candidacy, and their dependents who will reside with them overseas, are required to pass a physical examination at the Department of State Medical Division.
(5)
Security and suitability considerations.
A background investigation or appropriate security clearance update will be conducted on each applicant, and no application may be continued until a security clearance has been granted.
(6)
Class of appointment.
The Board of Examiners fixes the entry level for appointment as an FSO candidate.
(7)
Certification for appointment.
After completion of all aspects of the examination, the Board of Examiners certifies to the Board successful candidates for appointment as FSO Candidates. Determinations of duly constituted panels of examiners and deputy examiners are final, unless modified by specific action of the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service.
(8)
FSO Candidate registers.
(i) After approval by the Board of Examiners, and certification as to suitability and security clearance by the Board's Director of Security, successful applicants will have their names placed on a register for the class for which they have been found qualified. Appointments to available openings will be made from the applicants entered on the register for the class of the position to be filled. Inclusion on the register does not guarantee eventual assignment and appointment as an FSO Candidate. Applicants who have qualified but have not been appointed because of lack of openings will be dropped from the register 18 months after the date of placement on it (or the completion of an inside applicant's current overseas tour, whichever is longer). Such applicants may reapply for the program, but will be required to
repeat the entire application process, including BEX testing.
(ii) Any applicant on the register who refuses an assignment offer will be removed from the Register and will not be eligible to reapply for the program for seven years.
(iii) The Board of Examiners may extend the eligibility period when such extension is in its judgment justified in the interest of the Foreign Service.
(f)
Appointment as an FSO Candidate.
(1) An FSO Candidate will be given a four-year Foreign Service limited appointment. Board Career Overseas Specialists will be redesignated as FSO Candidates for a period of four years. The appointment or redesignation may be extended for one year, but must be terminated at the end of the fifth year. The purpose of the FSO Candidacy is to permit on-the-job evaluation of an individual's suitability and capacity for effective service as a Foreign Service Officer.
(2) FSO Candidates will be assigned to Generalist positions overseas, and will compete for promotion with other Generalist officers under the Annual Generalist Selection Boards. FSO Candidates at the Class 1 level may not compete for promotion into the Senior Foreign Service prior to commissioning as an FSO.
(3) The FSO Candidacy may be terminated during the four-year period for unsatisfactory performance (22 U.S.C. 4011) or for such other cause as will promote the efficiency of the Service (22 U.S.C. 4010).
(g)
Commissioning as a Foreign Service Officer.
(1) Upon completion of three years' service (most of which will have been overseas), the FSO Candidate will be eligible for commissioning as a Foreign Service Officer. The FSO Commissioning Board will review all FSO Candidates appointed on or after March 1, 1980 and will recommend on tenure.
(2) The criterion used for deciding whether to recommend commissioning of FSO Candidates is the Candidate's demonstrated potential to perform effectively as a Foreign Service Officer in a normal range of generalist assignments up through the Class 1 level. No quota or numerical limit is placed on the number of affirmative decisions.
(3) If recommended for commissioning, and having satisfied the language proficiency requirements, the name of the FSO Candidate will be forwarded to the President and the Senate and, upon approval, the FSO Candidate will be commissioned as an FSO.
(4) If the FSO Commissioning Board does not recommend commissioning of the FSO Candidate during its review, it may recommend extension of the FSO Candidacy to allow for a future review. Under no circumstances will an FSO Candidacy be extended to a total of more than five years.
(5) Candidates not recommended for commissioning or who have not satisfied the language proficiency requirement will be separated from the Service at the expiration of their appointment. However, FSO Candidates who were appointed from within the Board with career status as a Domestic or Overseas Specialist may exercise reappointment rights to their previous category in lieu of separation.
§ 501.6
Appointment of Overseas Specialists.
(a)
General.
Members of the Board's Foreign Service appointed as Overseas Specialists serve on rotational U.S.-overseas assignments in the following types of positions: General Administration; Publication Writers and Editors; Exhibit Managers; Printing Specialists; English Teaching Specialists; Correspondents; Engineers for the Voice of America; Regional Librarian Consultants; and Secretaries. Appointees serve a trial period of service as Specialist Candidates under Foreign Service limited appointments (or redesignation) for a period not to exceed five years. Appointments are made to F.S. classes 8 through 1. Specialist Candidates are given career appointments as Overseas Specialists based on the recommendations of Specialist Selection Boards. Specialist candidates not recommended for tenuring will be separated from the Foreign Service, or reinstated in the Civil Service.
(b)
Sources of applicants.
Qualified Broadcasting Board of Governors domestic employees comprise a significant recruitment source for Overseas Specialist appointments. Such employees will be given priority consideration
over outside applicants when applying for Overseas Specialist positions, when qualifications are otherwise equal.
(c)
Eligibility requirements.
All applicant must be citizens of the United States, and must be at least 21 years of age and no more than 58 years of age at the time of appointment. The 21-year age requirement may be waived by the Director, Office of Personnel (M/P or VOA/P) when she or he determines that the applicant's services are urgently needed. Broadcasting Board of Governors employee applicants must also have at least three years of Federal government experience and occupy a position at the GS-11 level (or equivalent) or above (GS-10 for Electronic Technicians in the Voice of America). All applicants must be available for worldwide assignment to positions in their occupational category.
(d)
Application procedures.
(1) Applications for all specialties except secretarial should include a current SF-171, Application for Federal Employment; a DSP-34, Supplement to Application for Federal Employment; university transcripts; a 1,000 word autobiographical statement which should include mention of the qualifications the applicant would bring to the job and reason for desiring to work for the Board; and a statement affirming willingness and capacity to serve at any post worldwide.
(2)
Special requirements for Foreign Service Secretaries.
Secretarial applicants must submit a current SF-171, Application for Federal Employment, and a 250 word essay on a commonly understood subject to demonstrate grammatical competence. The following specific requirements must be met by applicants: Ability to type accurately at 60 words per minute; four years of secretarial or administrative experience (business school or college training may be substituted for up to two years of required work experience); and attainment of an acceptable score in verbal ability and spelling tests. Applicants will subsequently be given a written examination to measure administrative aptitude.
(e)
Examination process
—(1)
Application review.
All applications are to be sent to the Special Recruitment Staff, Office of Personnel (M/PDSE), or to the Foreign Personnel Advisor (VOA/PF) for Voice of America positions.
(2)
Qualifications Evaluation Panel.
A Qualifications Evaluation Panel will evaluate the applicant's qualifications including his/her performance and administrative files (or equivalent), claimed language proficiency and other background or factors which may be related to the work performed by an Overseas Specialist Officer in the relevant specialty.
(3)
Oral examination.
(i) Applicants who are passed on by the Qualifications Evaluation Panel to the Board of Examiners will be given an oral examination to evaluate the applicant's total qualifications for service as an Overseas Specialist in the desired functional specialty.
(ii) The Board panel examining all candidates except those of the Voice of America will consist of one Broadcasting Board of Governors Overseas Specialist and two BEX Deputy Examiners. For VOA candidates, the panel will consist of the Foreign Personnel Advisor, a BEX Deputy Examiner assigned to the Voice of America, and a Deputy Examiner assigned to the Board of Examiners.
(iii) The panel will examine each applicant through questioning and discussion. Hypothetical problem-solving exercises, a writing exercise and an in-basket test may also be required. The panel will also recommend the F.S. entry level for appointment. If the panel's recommendation is unfavorable, the application process will be discontinued. An unsuccessful applicant may apply again in 12 months.
(4) The same medical and security requirements applicable to FSO Candidates pertain to Specialist Candidates.
(5)
Overseas Specialist Candidate register.
If an applicant is successful in the examination, and medical and security clearances have been successfuly completed, his/her name will be added to the appropriate Overseas Specialist register for a period of 18 months, or completion of an inside candidate's current tour of duty overseas, whichever is longer, at the Foreign Service class determined in the examination process and based on previous experience. Inclusion on the register does not
guarantee eventual assignment and appointment as an Overseas Specialist Candidate.
(f)
Appointment as a Specialist Candidate.
(1) When the Office of Personnel identifies an overseas vacancy which cannot be filled from the existing ranks of Overseas Specialists, applicants on the Overseas Specialist register will be considered for the assignment. An applicant will not be appointed unless an overseas position has been identified and a need for the individual in the Foreign Service has been certified by the Director, Office of Personnel (M/P or VOA/P). Any applicant selected from the register who refuses an assignment offer will be dropped from the register and precluded from reapplying for a period of seven years.
(2) Applicants will be given a Foreign Service limited appointment (or redesignation) for a period of four years at the Foreign Service Class determined in the examination process. The purpose of this untenured appointment is to allow the Board to evaluate and assess the Specialist Candidate's abilities and future potential prior to offering career appointment as an Overseas Specialist. The limited appointment may be extended for one additional year, but must be terminated at the end of the fifth year if the Candidate does not obtain career tenure.
(3) The Candidate will receive the orientation and training necessary to serve overseas and will be assigned overseas in a position in his or her specialty. Broadcasting Board of Governors Civil Service employees selected as Overseas Specialist Candidates will be appointed only if the Board element to which they are currently assigned is willing to affirm in writing that a position at the appropriate level will be made available for the employee should the candidacy end unsuccessfully. Broadcasting Board of Governors Civil Service applicants will be appointed as Overseas Specialist Candidates on or about the date of their departure for post of assignment or upon assumption of an assignment (which has been identified and will follow a period of orientation in Washington). The Board may also assign a Candidate to a U.S.-based position for an initial assignment of up to 24 months when the Candidate will spend the majority of his/her time traveling overseas and will, except for the U.S. basing, be fully functioning as an Overseas Specialist. Specialist Candidates will compete for promotion by the Annual Overseas Specialist Selection Board with other officers in the same specialty and at the same class level. Specialist Candidates at the Class 1 level are ineligible for promotion into the Senior Foreign Service.
(4) The Specialist candidacy may be terminated at any time for unsatisfactory performance (22 U.S.C. 4011) or for such cause as will promote the efficiency of the Service (22 U.S.C. 4010).
(g)
Career appointment as an Overseas Specialist.
In accordance with section 3946 of title 22 United States Code, the decision to offer a Specialist Candidate a career appointment will be based on the recommendation made by the Annual Overseas Specialist Selection Board which reviews all employees in the Candidate's occupational category and class level.
(1)
Eligibility.
Specialist Candidates who have performed at least two years of overseas service will be eligible for review for career status at the time of the Candidate's third Board review. Candidates serving an initial tour in the U.S. but spending the majority of time working overseas will be credited with up to one year's overseas service, but no more than half of the time based in the U.S. If a Specialist Candidate is not recommended for career status during the initial review, the Candidate may be reviewed again when the next Annual Overseas Specialist Selection Board convenes if the initial Board so recommends.
(2)
Selection Board Review.
The Selection Board(s) will review the official performance file of the eligible Specialist Candidates and in accordance with established precepts, will determine whether the Candidates should be recommended for career appointment as Overseas Specialists. Recommendations by the Board will be based on the Candidate's demonstrated aptitude and fitness for a career in the Foreign Service in their occupational specialties. No quota or numerical limit is placed on the number of positive career status
decisions that can be made by Selection Boards. The Specialist candidacy will be terminated if the Candidate fails to be recommended for career status after a second Board review for tenuring. Candidates may be terminated earlier than the expiration of their limited appointment if so recommended by the Board and approved by the Director, Office of Personnel (M/P or VOA/P). Specialist Candidates recommended for career status by the Selection Board will be given Foreign Service career appointments (or redesignation) as Overseas Specialist, to take effect within one month of the Board's recommendation.
§ 501.7
Appointment as Chief of Mission.
(a)
Appointment by President.
Chiefs of mission are appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. They may be career members of the Foreign Service or they may be appointed from outside the Service.
(b)
Recommendation of Foreign Service career members.
On the basis of recommendations made by the Director of Broadcasting Board of Governors, the Secretary of State from time to time furnishes the President with the names of Foreign Service career members qualified for appointment as chiefs of mission. The names of these officers, together with pertinent information concerning them, are given to the President to assist him in selecting qualified candidates for appointment as chiefs of mission.
(c)
Status of Foreign Service career members appointed as Chiefs of Mission.
Foreign Service career members who are appointed as chiefs of mission retain their career status as Foreign Service career members.
§ 501.8
Reappointment of Foreign Service Officers and Career Overseas Specialists.
The President may, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, reappoint to the Service a former Foreign Service Officer who is separated from the Service. The Director (Broadcasting Board of Governors) may reappoint to the Service a former career Overseas Specialist.
(a)
Requirements for reappointment.
(1) On the date of application, each applicant must be a citizen of the United States.
(2) No applicant will be considered who has previously been separated from the Foreign Service pursuant to section 608 or 610 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (or predecessor section 633, 635, or 637 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended); or who resigned or retired in lieu of selection out or separation for cause.

# Note:
This requirement will not apply where it has been determined by the Foreign Service Grievance Board under 3 FAM 660 or by the Director, Office of Personnel, that the separation or the resignation or retirement in lieu of selection out or separation for cause was wrongful; where reappointment is determined by the Director, Office of Personnel, as an appropriate means to settle a grievance or complaint of a former Foreign Service career member on a mutually satisfactory basis; or where reappointment is the indicated redress in a proceeding under 3 FAM 130 “Equal Employment Opportunity.”
(b)
Application.
Apply by letter addressed to the Director, Office of Personnel. Include the standard application forms, SF-171, Application for Federal Employment; and DSP-34, Supplement to Application for Federal Employment; and a brief resume of work and other experience since resignation from the Foreign Service. Whenever the Director, Office of Personnel, finds that the reappointment of one or more former Foreign Service Career Members may be in the best interest of the Service, all application forms, along with the available personnel files, will be referred as appropriate to the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service which will conduct an advisory evaluation of the qualifications of each applicant.
(c)
Nature of evaluation.
(1) The Board of Examiners' advisory qualifications evaluation of FSO applicants (i) will be based on a review of all pertinent information relating to the applicant's record of employment in the Foreign Service and to subsequent experience, as well, and (ii) will take into consideration among other factors, the rank of the applicant's contemporaries in the Service in recommending the class in which the applicant will be reappointed
under section 308 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980.
(2) In consultation with the Foreign Service Personnel Division (M/PF or VOA/PF) and officials from the pertinent Board elements, the Overseas Specialist applicant's total qualifications and experience will be evaluated based on the application and an interview. On the basis of this review and the recommendations of the appropriate officials, the personnel office will determine whether the application should be continued and, if so, will recommend the appointment class.
(d)
Medical examination and security investigation.
Qualified applicants and their dependents who will accompany them overseas will be given a physical examination. A security investigation will also be conducted. The reappointment action is subject to completion of a satisfactory security investigation and satisfactory medical examination of the applicant and his/her dependents.
(e)
Selection for reappointment.
The Director, Office or Personnel (M/P or VOA/P), taking into consideration (1) the qualifications and experience of each applicant as outlined in the qualifications evaluation performed by the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service or the personnel office, (2) future placement and growth potential, and (3) the needs of the Service for the applicant's skills determines which applicant, or applicants, are qualified for reappointment and the appointment class that is considered to be appropriate. An Overseas Specialist may not be reappointed until and unless an overseas assignment has been identified. The Director, Office of Personnel (M/P or VOA/P) is responsible for initiating appointment action. Any voluntary applicant who refuses an offer of reappointment will not be considered for reappointment again.
§ 501.9
Interchange of FSOs between Broadcasting Board of Governors and other Foreign Affairs Agencies.
Foreign Service Officers (FSOs) desiring transfer from one agency to another may apply under the following provisions:
(a)
Applications.
Applications for interchange appointments should be sent to the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520.
(b)
Certification and approval.
(1) When a Foreign Service Officer of another Foreign Affairs Agency wishes to transfer to the Broadcasting Board of Governors, a certification of need is required from the Director, Office of Personnel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, and approval is required by the Director of Personnel for the other agency for the officer's release to Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(2) When a Broadcasting Board of Governors FSO wishes to transfer to another Foreign Affairs Agency, a certification of need is required from the Director of Personnel of the other Agency, and approval is required by the Director, Office of Personnel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, for the officer's release to that Agency.
(3) A review by the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service will certify the eligibility of candidates for exchange. BEX will notify the Office of Personnel, Broadcasting Board of Governors when a Foreign Service Officer of another Agency has been approved for transfer and Broadcasting Board of Governors will process the necessary employment papers.
(4) A new FSO appointment for officers transferring between another Foreign Affairs Agency and Broadcasting Board of Governors is not required.
Pt. 502

# PART 502—DOMESTIC REQUESTS FOR BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS PROGRAM MATERIALS
Sec.
502.1
Authority and scope.
502.2
Definitions.
502.3
Availability of program materials on public Web sites.
502.4
Media or organization one-time requests for broadcast quality agency program materials.
502.5
Media or organization requests for ongoing subscriptions to broadcast quality agency program materials
502.6
Terms of use for accessing program materials available on agency Web sites.
502.7
Denial of requests.
502.8
Fees.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 1461, 1461-1a.

# Source:
78 FR 39585, July 2, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 502.1
Authority and scope.
(a)
Authority for this part.
This part is pursuant to Section 1078 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, Public Law 112-239, as codified in 22 U.S.C. 1461, 1461-1a and the U.S. International Broadcasting Act, 22 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to the public and all divisions of the Federal Government supervised by the Broadcasting Board of Governors under the U.S. International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (collectively “the Agency”). These regulations only cover the procedures for responding to domestic requests for Agency program materials.
(c)
Summary.
(1) The Broadcasting Board of Governors supervises all U.S. non-military international broadcasting activities in accordance with the broadcasting principles and standards in the U.S. International Broadcasting Act of 1994, 22 U.S.C. 6201 et seq., including consistency with the broad foreign policy objectives of the United States.
(2) As stated in the U.S. International Broadcasting Act of 1994, it is the policy of the United States to promote freedom of opinion and expression and to open communication of information and ideas among the people of the world. The Agency has adopted as its mission statement “to inform, engage, and connect people around the world in support of freedom and democracy.”
(3) It is the Agency's policy to make its program materials available, upon request, whenever doing so is consistent with all statutory authorities, prohibitions, principles, and standards. However, the Agency reserves the right to deny requests for program materials under circumstances described in Section 502.7 of this regulation.
(4) Pursuant to section 501 of the U.S. Information and Educational Exchange Act, as amended, as codified in 22 U.S.C. 1461, the Agency may, upon request, provide members of the public, organizations, and media with program materials which the Agency disseminated abroad, in accordance with these regulations.
(5) Pursuant to Section 208 of Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987, as amended, as codified at 22 U.S.C. 1461-1a, the Agency is prohibited from using appropriated funds to influence public opinion in the United States, however, the statute clarifies that the Agency may:
(i) Provide information about its operations, programs, or program materials to the media, the public, or Congress in accordance with applicable law;
(ii) Make program materials available in the Unites States, when appropriate, and in accordance with other applicable law.
§ 502.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Media entity
means any person or entity, that actively gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, turns gathered information into a distinct work, or distributes that work to an audience within the United States, and otherwise serves the purposes described in § 502.4.
(b)
Organization
means any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other group organized primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or similar purpose, including but not limited to institutions of higher education, and otherwise serves the purposes described in § 502.4.
(c)
Program materials
means radio broadcasts, television broadcasts, and Internet content that the Agency disseminates to audiences outside of the United States, pursuant to: The U.S. Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1461 et seq.); The U.S. International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.); The Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act (22 U.S.C. 1465 et seq.); or The Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act (22 U.S.C. 1465aa et seq.).
(d)
Requestor
means any private person or entity within the United States that requests program materials from the Agency.
§ 502.3
Availability of program materials on public Web sites.
(a) The Agency makes program materials available to Requestors through the Agency's news and information
Web sites designed for foreign audiences. To access currently-available Agency program materials, please visit
www.voanews.com and www.martinoticias.com.
The homepages of these Web sites display a portion of the Agency's most recent news reporting. Additional program materials are available through the Web sites' search functions.
(b) Program materials are available on Agency Web sites, and may be removed from Agency Web sites solely at the Agency's discretion. The Agency will remove program materials from Agency Web sites when a National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) records schedule goes into effect, or when required by licensing agreements with third-party copyright holders. Once these program materials have been removed from Agency Web sites, they are no longer available from the Agency.
(1) When full programs are removed from the Agency's Web sites in accordance with a NARA records schedule, programs designated as permanent will be transferred to NARA. For information on how to request Agency program materials that have been transferred to NARA, see the Agency's records schedules and NARA's regulations at
www.nara.gov.
(2) Programs designated as temporary under a NARA records schedule will not be retained by the Agency once they are removed from the Agency's Web sites and are no longer needed for the Agency's use.
(c) Segments incorporated into final programs, including music, interviews, reports, and other program elements, will not be transferred to NARA independently of full program recordings, and will not be available after they have been removed from Agency Web sites.
(d) Draft program materials, and any other program materials not selected for dissemination abroad, are not available.
(e) The Agency shall determine the method of making program materials available, as well as the file type, file format, resolution, and storage medium(s) that are available. Program materials are only available in the same form (i.e. radio or television file-type and file format) and language in which the Agency disseminated them abroad.
[78 FR 39585, July 2, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 67026, Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 502.4
Media or organization one-time requests for broadcast quality agency program materials.
Upon request, the Agency may provide a broadcast-quality copy of Agency program materials to media entities, educational organizations, not-for-profit corporations, or other requestors. Requestors will be informed if materials are subject to third party content holders' restrictions. One-time requests for broadcast quality copies of Agency program materials should be directed to:
(a) The Voice of America Office of Public Relations for broadcast-quality copies of Voice of America program materials; and
(b) The TV Marti Division of the Office of Cuba Broadcasting for broadcast-quality copies of TV or Radio Marti program materials.
[78 FR 67026, Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 502.5
Media or organization requests for ongoing subscriptions to broadcast quality agency program materials
(a) Upon request, the Agency may make program materials available on an ongoing basis to Media entities, or other organizations, through a subscription agreement, provided that the Agency determines that entering into a subscription agreement to make program materials available on an ongoing basis would be consistent with the Agency's mission and authorities. Requested, ongoing subscription agreements must be consistent with the Agency's Policy for domestic distribution which incorporates the Broadcasting principles and standards and other requirements, found in 22 U.S.C. 1461, 1461-1a, 1462, 6201, 6202, 6203, 6204, 6205, 6206; Pub. L. 112-239, section 1078(b), 126 Stat. 1632, 1958; agreements with third-parties that hold a copyright in Agency program materials; and Terms of Use on Agency Web sites. Requestors shall secure all necessary
licenses from all persons or organizations that hold a copyright in any portion of program materials before making any use of those program materials, except uses of program materials permitted by the Copyright Act of 1976, as amended.
(b) Media entities or other organizations may request ongoing subscriptions by filling out an application form found on the Web site for the Direct System, the Agency's professional distribution system.
[78 FR 67026, Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 502.6
Terms of use for accessing program materials available on agency Web sites.
(a) By accessing Agency Web sites, Requestors agree to all the Terms of Use available on those Web sites.
(b) All Requestors are advised that Agency program materials may contain third-party copyrighted material, unless the Agency specifically informs the Requestor otherwise. Accordingly, and as further explained in the Terms of Use mentioned above, by using Agency Web sites to access program materials:
(1) The Requestor agrees that he or she is solely responsible for his or her use of program materials provided by the Agency and any copyrighted portion(s) of those materials;
(2) The Requestor agrees that he or she shall secure all necessary licenses from all persons or organizations that hold a copyright in any portion of requested program materials before making any use of those program materials, except uses of program materials permitted by the Copyright Act of 1976, as amended.
[78 FR 39585, July 2, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 67026, Nov. 8, 2013]
§ 502.7
Denial of requests.
(a) The Agency reserves the right to deny any request for program materials made pursuant to these regulations for cause, including but not limited to the following circumstances:
(1) For a Requestor's failure to comply with the Terms of Use on Agency Web sites;
(2) For a Requestor's failure to secure necessary rights and licenses to use third-party copyrighted materials when the Requestor uses Agency program materials in any way not explicitly permitted by the Copyright Act of 1976, as amended;
(3) When the Agency's distribution of program materials is restricted by an agreement with a third-party that holds a copyright in a portion of Agency program materials;
(4) If providing the requested materials would be inconsistent with the Agency's statutory authorities, the broadcasting element's charter, or any applicable law or regulation.
(b) For more information on the criteria for accepting or denying requests, please see the Agency's policy for domestic distribution, available at
www.bbg.gov.
§ 502.8
Fees.
(a) The Agency makes program material available at no cost on
www.voanews.com
and
www.martinoticias.com.
(b) The Agency may collect a fee for reimbursement of the reasonable costs incurred to fulfill a request for Agency program materials, including ongoing subscriptions for Media entities and one-time requests for broadcast-quality copies of Agency program materials. Fees charged for ongoing subscriptions, if any, will be outlined in an agreement between the Media entity and the Agency.
(c) The Agency reserves the right to establish and change fees in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
Pt. 503

# PART 503—FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REGULATION
Sec.
503.1
Introduction and definitions.
503.2
Making a request.
503.3
Availability of agency records.
503.4
Time limits.
503.5
Records available for public inspection.
503.6
Restrictions on some agency records.
503.7
Fees.
503.8
Exemptions.
503.9
Electronic records.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552 Reform Act of 1986 as amended by Pub. L. 99-570; sec. 1801-1804; U.S.C. 2658; 5 U.S.C. 301; 13 U.S.C. 8, E.O. 10477, as amended; 47 FR 9320, Apr. 2, 1982, E.O. 12356. 5 U.S.C. 552 (1988
Supp. III 1991)
as amended by Freedom of Information Reform Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-570, Title I, sections 1801-1804, 100 Stat. 3207, 3207-48-50 (1986)(codified at 5 U.S.C. 552 (1988)); 22 U.S.C. 2658 (1988); 5 U.S.C. 301 (1988); 13 U.S.C. 8 (2988); E.O. 10477, 3 CFR 958 (1949-1953) as amended by E.O. 10822, 3 CFR 355 (1959-1963), E.O. 12292, 3 FR 134 (1982), E.O. 12356, 3 CFR 166 (1983), E.O. 12958 (1995).

# Source:
67 FR 8867, Feb. 27, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 503.1
Introduction and definitions.
(a)
Introduction.
The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and this part apply to all records of The Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG). As a general policy BBG follows a balanced approach in administering the FOIA. We recognize the right of public access to information in the Agency's possession, but we also seek to protect the integrity of the Agency's internal processes. This policy calls for the fullest possible disclosure of records consistent with those requirements of administrative necessity and confidentiality which are recognized by the FOIA.
(b)
Definitions:
Access Appeal Committee or Committee
means the Committee delegated by the Agency Head for making final agency determinations regarding appeals from the initial denial of records under the FOIA.
Agency or BBG
means the Broadcasting Board of Governors. It includes all parts of the BBG in the U.S. and its worldwide operations.
Commercial use,
when referring to a request, means that the request is from, or on behalf of, one who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or of a person on whose behalf the request is made. Whether a request is for a commercial use depends on the purpose of the request and how the records will be used. The identity of the requester (individual, non-profit corporation, for-profit corporation), or the nature of the records, while in some cases indicative of that purpose or use, is not necessarily determinative. When a request is made by a representative of the news media, the request shall be deemed to be for a non-commercial use.
Department
means any executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any independent regulatory agency, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Federal Government. A private organization is not a department even if it is performing work under contract with the Government or is receiving Federal financial assistance. Grantee and contractor records are not subject to the FOIA unless they are in the possession and control of the BBG.
Duplication
means the process of making a copy of a record and sending it to the requester, to the extent necessary to respond to the request. Such copies include paper copy, microform, audiovisual materials, and magnetic tapes, cards and discs.
Educational institution
means a preschool, elementary or secondary school, institution of undergraduate or graduate higher education, or institution of professional or vocational education.
FOIA
means the Freedom of Information Act, section 552 of title 5, United States Code, as amended.
Freedom of Information Officer
means the BBG official who has been delegated the authority to release or withhold records and assess, waive, or reduce fees in response to FOIA requests.
Non-commercial scientific institution
means an institution that is not operated substantially for the purposes of furthering its own or someone else's business, trade, or profit interests, and that is operated for purposes of conducting scientific research whose results are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
Records
(and any other term used in this section in reference to information) include any information that would be an agency record subject to the requirements of this section when maintained by the Agency in any format, including an electronic format. Records also include any handwritten, typed or printed documents (such as memoranda, books, brochures, studies, writings, drafts, letters, transcripts, and minutes) and documentary material in other forms (such as punchcards, magnetic tapes, cards, or discs; paper tapes; audio or video recordings,
maps, photographs, slides, microfilm, and motion pictures). It does not include objects or articles such as exhibits, models, equipment, and duplication machines or audiovisual processing materials. Reports does not include books, magazines, pamphlets, or other reference material in formally organized and officially designated BBG libraries, where such materials are available under the rules of the particular library.
Representative of the news media
means a person actively gathering news for an entity organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public.
News
means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. News media entities include television and radio broadcasters, publishers of periodicals (to the extent they publish “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public, and entities that may disseminate news through other media (e.g., electronic dissemination of text). Freelance journalists shall be considered representatives of a news media entity if they can show a solid basis for expecting publication through such an entity. A publication contract or a requester's past publication record may show such a basis.
Request
means asking in writing for records whether or not the request refers specifically to the FOIA.
Review
means examining the records to determine which portions, if any, may be released, and any other processing that is necessary to prepare the records for release. It includes only the first examination and processing of the requested documents for purposes of determining whether a specific exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record.
Search
means looking for records or portions of records responsive to a request. It includes reading and interpreting a request, and also page-by-page and line-by-line examination to identify responsive portions of a document. However, it does not include line-by-line examination where merely duplicating the entire page would be a less expensive and quicker way to comply with the request.
§ 503.2
Making a request.
(a)
How to request records.
All requests for documents shall be made in writing. Requests should be addressed to The Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), FOIA/Privacy Act Officer, Office of the General Counsel, 330 Independence Avenue, SW, Suite 3349, Washington, DC 20237; telephone (202) 260-4404; or fax (202) 260-4394. Write the words “Freedom of Information Act Request” on the envelope and letter.
(b)
Details in your letter.
Your request for documents should provide as many details as possible that will help us find the records you are requesting. If there is insufficient information, we will ask you to provide greater details. Include your telephone number(s) to help us reach you if we have questions. If you are not sure how to write your request or what details to include, you may call the FOIA Office to request a copy of the Agency's booklet “Guide and Index of Records,” or access the same information via the Internet on BBG's World Wide Web site (
http://www.ibb.gov
). The more specific the request for documents, the sooner the Agency will be able to respond to your request(s).
(c)
Requests not handled under FOIA.
We will not provide documents requested under the FOIA and this part if the records are currently available in the National Archives, subject to release through the Archives, or commonly sold to the public by it or another agency in accordance with statutory authority (for example, records currently available from the Government Printing Office or the National Technical Information Service). Agency records that are normally freely available to the general public, such as BBG press releases, are not covered by the FOIA. Requests for documents from Federal departments, Chairmen of Congressional committees or subcommittees and court orders are not FOIA requests.
(d)
Referral of requests outside the agency.
If you request records that were created by or provided to us by another Federal department, we may refer your request to or consult with that department. We may also refer requests for classified records to the department that classified them. In cases
of referral, the other department is responsible for processing and responding to your request under that department's regulation. When possible, we will notify you when we refer your request to another department.
(e)
Responding to your request
—(1)
Retrieving records.
The Agency is required to furnish copies of records only when they are in our possession and control. If we have stored the records you want in a record retention center, we will retrieve and review them for possible disclosure. However, the Federal Government destroys many old records, so sometimes it is impossible to fill requests. The Agency's record retention policies are set forth in the General Records Schedules of the National Archives and Records Administration and in BBG's Records Disposition Schedule, which establish time periods for keeping records before they may be destroyed.
(2)
Furnishing records.
(i) The Agency is only required to furnish copies of records that we have or can retrieve. We are not compelled to create new records. The Agency will aid requesters by providing records and information in the form requested, including electronic format, if we can readily reproduce them in that form or format.
(ii) We may decide to conserve government resources and at the same time supply the records you need by consolidating information from various records, in paper form or electronically, rather than copying them all. If the effort to produce records in electronic format would significantly interfere with the operations of the Agency, we will consider the effort to be an unreasonable search.
(iii) The Agency is required to furnish only one copy of a record. If we are unable to make a legible copy of a record to be released, we will not attempt to reconstruct it. Rather we will furnish the best copy possible and note its poor quality in our reply or on the copy.
(iv) If we cannot accommodate your request for form or format, we will provide responsive, nonexempt information in a reasonably accessible form.
§ 503.3
Availability of agency records.
(a)
Release of records.
If we have released a record or part of a record to others in the past, we will ordinarily release it to you also. This principle does not apply if the previous release was an unauthorized disclosure. However, we will not release it to you if a statute forbids this disclosure and we will not necessarily release it to you if an exemption applies in your situation and did not apply or applied differently in the previous situation.
(b)
Denial of requests.
All denials are in writing and describe in general terms the material withheld and state the reasons for the denial, including a reference to the specific exemption of the FOIA authorizing the withholding or deletion. The denial also explains your right to appeal the decision and it will identify the official to whom you should send the appeal. Denial letters are signed by the person who made the decision to deny all or part of the request, unless otherwise noted.
(c)
Unproductive searches.
We will make a diligent search for records to satisfy your request. Nevertheless, we may not be able always to find the records you want using the information you provided, or they may not exist. If we advise you that we have been unable to find the records despite a diligent search, you will nevertheless be provided the opportunity to appeal the adequacy of the Agency's search. However, if your request is for records that are obviously not connected with this Agency or your request has been provided to us in error, a “no records” response will not be considered an adverse action and you will not be provided an opportunity to appeal.
(d)
Appeal of denials.
You have the right to appeal a partial or full denial of your FOIA request. To do so, you must put your appeal in writing and address it to the official identified in the denial letter. Your appeal letter must be dated and postmarked within 30 calendar days from the date of the Agency's denial letter. Because we have some discretionary authority in deciding whether to release or withhold records, you may strengthen your appeal by explaining your reasons for wanting the records. However, you are not required to give any explanation.
Your appeal will be reviewed by the Agency's Access Appeal Committee that consists of senior Agency officials. When the Committee responds to your appeal, that constitutes the Agency's final action on the request. If the Access Appeal Committee grants your appeal in part or in full, we will send the records to you promptly or set up an appointment for you to inspect them. If the decision is to deny your appeal in part or in full, the final letter will state the reasons for the decision, name the officials responsible for the decision, and inform you of the FOIA provisions for judicial review.
§ 503.4
Time limits.
(a)
General.
The FOIA sets certain time limits for us to decide whether to disclose the records you requested, and to decide appeals. If we fail to meet the deadlines, you may proceed as if we had denied your request or your appeal. Since requests may be misaddressed or misrouted, you should call or write to confirm that we have the request and to learn its status if you have not heard from us in a reasonable time.
(b)
Time allowed.
(1) We will decide whether to release records within 20 working days after your request reaches the appropriate area office that maintains the records you are requesting. When we decide to release records, we will actually provide the records at that time, or as soon as possible after that decision, or let you inspect them as soon as possible thereafter.
(2) We will decide an appeal within 20 working days after the appeal reaches the appropriate reviewing official.
(3)(i) The FOIA Officer or appeal official may extend the time limits in unusual circumstances for initial requests or appeals, up to 10 working days. We will notify you in writing of any extensions. “Unusual circumstances” include situations where we: Search for and collect records from field facilities, records centers or locations other than the office processing the records; search for, collect, or examine a great many records in response to a single request; consult with another office or department that has substantial interest in the determination of the request; and/or conduct negotiations with submitters and requesters of information to determine the nature and extent of non-disclosable proprietary materials.
(ii) If an extra ten days still does not provide sufficient time for the Agency to deal with your request, we will inform you that the request cannot be processed within the statutory time limit and provide you with the opportunity to limit the scope of your request and/or arrange with us a negotiated deadline for processing your request.
(iii) If you refuse to reasonably limit the scope of your request or refuse to agree upon a time frame, the Agency will process your case, as it would have, had no modification been sought. We will make a diligent, good faith effort to complete our review within the statutory time frame.
§ 503.5
Records available for public inspection.
(a) To the extent that they exist, we will make the following records of general interest available for you in paper form or electronically for inspection or copying:
(1) Orders and final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions in adjudications. (
See
§ 503.8(e) of this part for availability of internal memoranda, including attorney opinions and advice.)
(2) Statements of policy and interpretations that we have adopted but which have not been published in the
Federal Register.
(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect the public. (We will not make available, however, manuals or instructions that reveal investigative or audit procedures as described in § 503.8(b) and (g) of this part.)
(4) In addition to such records as those described in this paragraph (a), we will make available to any person a copy of all other Agency records, in the format requested, if available, unless we determine that such records should be withheld from disclosure under subsection (b) of the Act and §§ 503.8 and 503.9 of this part.
(b) Before releasing these records, however, we may delete the names of people, or information that would identify them, if release would invade their
personal privacy to a clearly unwarranted degree (
See
§ 503.8(f)).
(c) The Agency's FOIA Guide and Index is available electronically via the Internet, or you may request a copy of it by mail.
§ 503.6
Restrictions on some agency records.
Under the U.S. Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1461, as amended), the BBG is prohibited from disseminating within the United States information about the U.S., its people, and its policies when such materials have been prepared by the Agency for audiences abroad. This includes films, radio scripts and tapes, videotapes, books, and similar materials produced by the Agency. However, this law does provide that upon request, such information shall be made available at BBG, for examination only, by representatives of the press, magazines, radio systems and stations, research students or scholars and available, for examination only, to Members of Congress.
§ 503.7
Fees.
(a)
Fees to be charged—categories of requests.
Paragraphs (a)(1) though (3) and (b) through (e) of this section explain each category of request and the type of fees that we will generally charge. However, for each of these categories, the fees may be limited, waived, or reduced for the reasons given in paragraph (e) of this section. “Request” means asking for records, whether or not you refer specifically to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Requests from Federal agencies and court orders for documents are not included within this definition. “Review” means, when used in connection with processing records for a commercial use request, examining the records to determine what portions, if any, may be withheld, and any other processing that is necessary to prepare the records for release. It includes only the examining and processing that are done the first time we analyze whether a specific exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. It does not include the process of researching or resolving general legal, or policy issues regarding exemptions. “Search” means looking for records or portions of records responsive to a request. It includes reading and interpreting a request, and also and line-by-line examination to identify responsive portions of a document.
(1)
Commercial use request.
If your request is for a commercial use, BBG will charge you the costs of search, review and duplication. “Commercial use” means that the request is from or on behalf of one whom seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or of a person on whose behalf the request is made. Whether a request is for a commercial use depends on the purpose of the request and how the records will be used; the identity of the requester (individual, non-profit corporation, for-profit corporation), or the nature of the records, while in some cases may indicate the purpose or use is not necessarily determinative. When a request is made by a representative of the news media, a purpose of use which supports the requester's news dissemination function is deemed to be a non-commercial use.
(2)
Educational and scientific institutions and news media.
If you are an educational institution or a non-commercial scientific institution, operated primarily for scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media, and your request is not for a commercial use, BBG will charge you only for the duplication of documents. Also BBG will not charge you the copying costs for the first 100 pages of duplication. “Educational institution” means a preschool, elementary or secondary school, institution of undergraduate or graduate higher education, or institution of professional or vocational education. “Non-commercial scientific institution” means an institution that is not operated substantially for purposes of furthering its own or someone else's business, trade, or profit interests, and that is operated for purposes of conducting scientific research whose results are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. “Representative of the news media” means a person actively gathering news for an entity organized and operated to publish or broadcast news
to the public. “News” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. News media entities include television and radio broadcasters, publishers of periodicals (to the extent they publish “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public, and entities that may disseminate news through other media (e.g., electronic dissemination of text). We will treat freelance journalists as representatives of a news media entity if they can show a solid basis for expecting publication through such an entity. A publication contract is such a basis and the requester's past publication record may show such a basis.
(3)
Other requesters.
If your request is not the kind described by paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, then the BBG will charge you only for search and duplication. Also, we will not charge you for the first two hours of search time or for the copying costs of the first 100 pages of duplication.
(b)
Fees to be charged—general provisions.
(1) We may charge search fees even if the records we find are exempt from disclosure, or even if we do not find any records at all.
(2) We will not charge you any fee at all if the costs of routine collection and processing of the fee are likely to equal or exceed the amount of the fee. We have estimated that cost to be $5.00.
(3) If we determine that you are acting alone or with others to break down a single request into a series of requests in order to avoid or reduce the fees charged, we may aggregate all these requests for purposes of calculating the fees charged.
(4) We will charge interest on unpaid bills beginning on the 31st day following the day the bill was sent. The accrual of interest will stop upon receipt of the fee, rather than upon its processing by BBG. Interest will be at the rate prescribed in section 3717 of Title 32 U.S.C.
(c)
Fee schedule—BBG will charge the following fees:
(1) Manual searching for or reviewing of records:
(i) When performed by employees at salary grade GS-1 through GS-8 or FS-9 through FS-5—an hourly rate of $10.00 will be charged;
(ii) When performed by employees at salary grade GS-9 through GS-13 or FS-5 through FS-2—an hourly rate of $20.00 will be charged;
(iii) When performed by employees at salary grade GS-14 or above or FS-2 or above—an hourly rate of $36.00 will be charged.
(iv) When a search involves employees at more than one of these levels, we will charge the appropriate rate for each.
(2) Computer searching and printing. Except in unusual cases, the cost of computer time will not be a factor in calculating the two free hours of search time. In those unusual cases, where the cost of conducting a computerized search significantly detracts from the Agency's ordinary operations, no more than the dollar cost of two hours of manual search time shall be allowed. For searches conducted beyond the first two hours, the Agency shall only charge the direct costs of conducting such searches.
(3) Photocopying standard size pages—$0.15 per page.
(4) Photocopying odd-size documents (such as punchcards or blueprints) or reproducing other records (such as tapes)—the actual cost of operating the machine, plus the actual cost of the materials used, plus charges for the time spent by the operator, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(5) Certifying that records are true copies—this service is not required by the FOIA. If we agree to provide it, we will charge $10.00 per certification.
(6) Sending records by express mail, certified mail, or other special methods. This service is not required by the FOIA. If we agree to provide it, we will charge our actual cost.
(7) Performing any other special service that you request and to which we agree—actual cost of operating any machinery, plus actual cost of any materials used, plus charges for the time of our employees, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Procedures for assessing and collecting fees
—(1)
Agreement to pay.
We generally assume that when you request records you are willing to pay
the fees we charge for services associated with your request. You may specify a limit on the amount you are willing to spend. We will notify you if it appears that the fees will exceed the limit and ask whether you nevertheless want us to proceed with the search.
(2)
Advance payment.
If you have failed to pay previous bills in a timely manner, or if our initial review of your request indicates that we will charge you fees exceeding $250.00, we will require you to pay your past due fees and/or the estimated fees, or a deposit, before we start searching for the records you want, or before we send them to you. In such cases, the administrative time limits as described in Sec. 503.4(b), will begin only after we come to an agreement with you over payment of fees, or decide that a fee waiver or reduction is appropriate.
(e)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
We will waive or reduce the fees we would otherwise charge if disclosure of the information meets both of the following tests (paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section):
(1) It is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of government operations or activities, regardless of any other public interest it may further. In making this determination, we may consider:
(i) Whether the requester is in a position to contribute to public understanding;
(ii) Whether the requester has such knowledge or expertise as may be necessary to understand the information; and
(iii) Whether the requester's intended use of the information would be likely to disseminate the information among the public.
(2) It is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Commercial interests include interests relating to business, trade, and profit. Not only profit-making corporations have commercial interests; so do nonprofit corporations, individuals, unions, and other associations.
(3) You must make your request for a waiver or reduction at the same time you make your request for records. Only the FOIA Officer may make the decision whether to waive or reduce the fees. If we do not completely grant your request for a waiver or reduction, the denial letter will designate the appeal official.
§ 503.8
Exemptions.
Section 552(b) of the Freedom of Information Act contains nine exemptions to the mandatory disclosure of records. These exemptions and their application by the Agency are described below. In some cases, more than one exemption may apply to the same document. This section does not itself authorize the giving of any pledge of confidentiality by any officer or employee of the Agency.
(a)
Exemption one—National defense and foreign policy.
We are not required to release records that are specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and are in fact properly classified according to such Executive Order. Executive Order No. 12958 (1995) provides for such classification. When the release of certain records may adversely affect U.S. relations with foreign countries, we usually consult with officials with knowledge of those countries and/or with officials of the Department of State. We may also have in our possession records classified by another agency. If we do, we may consult with that agency or may refer your request to that agency for their direct response to you. If possible, we will notify you that we have made such a referral.
(b)
Exemption two—Internal personnel rules and practices.
We are not required to release records that are related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency. We may withhold routine internal agency procedures such as guard schedules and luncheon periods. We may also withhold internal records the release of which would help some persons circumvent the law or Agency regulations.
(c)
Exemption three—Records exempted by other statutes.
We are not required to release records if another statute specifically allows us to withhold them. Another statute may be used only if it absolutely prohibits disclosure or if it
sets forth criteria identifying particular types of material to be withheld (for example, the statute discussed in § 503.6).
(d)
Exemption four—Trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information.
We will withhold trade secrets and commercial or financial information that is obtained from a person and is privileged or confidential.
(1)
Trade secrets:
A trade secret is a secret, commercially valuable plan, formula, process, or device that is used for the making, preparing, compounding, or processing of trade commodities and that can be said to be the end product of either innovation or substantial effort. A direct relationship is necessary between the trade secret and the productive process.
(2) Commercial or financial information, obtained from a person, and is privileged or confidential.
(i) Information is “commercial or financial” if it relates to businesses, commerce, trade, employment, profits, or finances (including personal finances).
(ii) Information is obtained from someone outside the Federal Government or from someone within the Government who has a commercial or financial interest in the information. “Person” includes an individual, partnership, corporation, association, state or foreign government, or other organization. Information is not “obtained from a person” if it is generated by BBG or another Federal agency.
(iii) Information is “privileged” if it would ordinarily be protected from disclosure in civil discovery by a recognized evidentiary privilege, such as the attorney-client privilege, or the work-product privilege. Information may be privileged for this purpose under a privilege belonging to a person outside the Government, unless the providing of the information to the Government rendered the information no longer protectible in civil discovery.
(iv) Information is “confidential” if it meets one of the following tests:
(A) Disclosure may impair the Government's ability to obtain necessary information in the future;
(B) Disclosure would substantially harm the competitive position of the person who submitted the information;
(C) Disclosure would impair other Government interests, such as program effectiveness and compliance; or
(D) Disclosure would impair other private interests, such as an interest in controlling availability of intrinsically valuable records, which are sold in the market by their owner.
(3)
Designation of certain confidential information.
A person who submits records to the Government may designate part or all of the information in such records as exempt from disclosure under Exemption four. The person may make this designation either at the time the records are submitted to the Government or within a reasonable time thereafter. The designation must be in writing. The legend prescribed by a request for proposal or request for quotations according to any agency regulation establishing a substitute for the language is sufficient but not necessary for this purpose. Any such designation will expire ten years after the records were submitted to the Government.
(4)
Predisclosure notification.
The procedures in this paragraph apply to records that were submitted to the Government and where we have substantial reason to believe that information in the records could reasonably be considered exempt under Exemption four. Certain exceptions to these procedures are stated in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(i) When we receive a request for such records and we determine that we may be required to disclose them, we will make reasonable efforts to notify the submitter about these facts. The notice will inform the submitter about the procedures and time limits for submission and consideration of objections to disclosure. If we must notify a large number of submitters, we may do this by posting or publishing a notice in a place where the submitters are reasonably likely to become aware of it.
(ii) The submitter has ten (10) working days from receipt of the notice to object to disclosure of any part of the records and to state all bases for its objections.
(iii) We will give consideration to all bases that have been timely stated by the submitter. If we decide to disclose the records and the submitter still does
not agree, we will send a written notice to the submitter stating briefly why we did not sustain its objections and we will provide a copy of the records as we intend to release them. The notice will state that we will disclose the records five (5) working days after the submitter receives the notice unless we are ordered by a United States District Court not to release them.
(iv) When a requester files suit under the FOIA to obtain records covered by this paragraph, we will promptly notify the submitter.
(v) Whenever we send a notice to a submitter under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, we will notify you that we are giving the submitter a notice and an opportunity to object.
(5) Exceptions to predisclosure notification. The notice requirements in paragraph (d)(4) of this section do not apply in the following situations:
(i) We decide not to disclose the records;
(ii) The information has previously been published or made generally available;
(iii) We have already notified the submitter of previous requests for the same records and have come to an understanding with that submitter about the records;
(iv) Disclosure is required by a statute other than the FOIA;
(v) Disclosure is required by a regulation, issued after notice and opportunity for public comment that specifies narrow categories of records that are to be disclosed under the FOIA. In this case a submitter may still designate records as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section and in exceptional cases, at our discretion, may follow the notice procedures in paragraph (d)(4) of this section;
(vi) The designation appears to be obviously frivolous, but in this case we will still give the submitter the written notice required by paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section (although this notice need not explain our decision or include a copy of the records); and
(vii) We withhold the information because another statute requires its withholding.
(e)
Exemption five—Internal memoranda.
This exemption covers internal Government communications and notes that fall within a generally recognized evidentiary privilege. Internal Government communications include an agency's communications with an outside consultant or other outside person, with a court, or with Congress, when those communications are for a purpose similar to the purpose of privileged intra-agency communications. Some of the most common applicable privileges are:
(1)
The deliberative process privilege.
This privilege protects predecisional deliberative communications. A communication is protected under this privilege if it was made before a final decision was reached on some question of policy and if it expressed recommendations or opinions on that question. The purpose of this privilege is to prevent injury to the quality of the agency decision making process by encouraging open and frank internal policy discussions, by avoiding premature disclosure of policies not yet adopted, and by avoiding the public confusion that might result from disclosing reasons that were not in fact the ultimate grounds for an agency's decision. This privilege continues to protect pre-decisional documents even after a decision is made. We will release purely factual material in a deliberative document unless that material is otherwise exempt. However, purely factual material in a deliberative document is within this privilege if:
(i) It is inextricably intertwined with the deliberative portions so that it cannot reasonably be segregated; or
(ii) It would reveal the nature of the deliberative portions, or
(iii) Its disclosure would in some other way make possible an intrusion into the decision making process.
(2)
Attorney-client privilege.
This privilege protects confidential communications between a lawyer and an employee or agent of the Government where an attorney-client relationship exists (for example, where the lawyer is acting as attorney for the agency and the employee is communicating on behalf of the agency) and where the employee has communicated information to the attorney in confidence in order to obtain legal advice or assistance,
and/or when the attorney has given advice to the client.
(3)
Attorney work product privilege.
This privilege protects documents prepared by or for an agency, or by or for its representative (usually BBG attorneys) in anticipation of litigation or for trial. It includes documents prepared for purposes of administrative adjudications as well as court litigation. It includes factual material in such documents as well as material revealing opinions and tactics. The privilege continues to protect the documents even after the litigation is closed.
(f)
Exemption six—Clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
We may withhold personnel, medical, and similar files, and personal information about individuals if disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(1)
Balancing test.
In deciding whether to release records that contain personal or private information about someone else to a requester, we weigh the foreseeable harm of invading that individual's privacy against the public benefit that would result from the release of the information. In our evaluation of requests for records, we attempt to guard against the release of information that might involve a violation of personal privacy by a requester being able to “piece together items” or “read between the lines” information that would normally be exempt from mandatory disclosure.
(2)
Information frequently withheld.
We frequently withhold such information as home addresses, home telephone numbers, ages, minority group status, social security numbers, individual's benefits, earning records, leave records, etc.
(g)
Exemption seven—Law enforcement.
We are not required to release information or records that the Government has compiled for law enforcement purposes. The records may apply to actual or potential violations of either criminal or civil laws or regulations. We can withhold these records only to the extent that releasing them would cause harm in at least one of the following situations:
(1)
Enforcement proceedings.
We may withhold information when release could reasonably be expected to interfere with prospective or ongoing law enforcement proceedings, investigations of fraud and mismanagement, employee misconduct, and civil rights violations may fall into this category. In certain cases, we may refuse to confirm or deny the existence of records that relate to violations in order not to disclose that an investigation is in progress or may be conducted.
(2)
Fair trial or impartial adjudication.
We may withhold records when release would deprive a person of a fair trial or an impartial adjudication because of prejudicial publicity.
(3)
Personal privacy.
We are careful not to disclose information that could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. When a name surfaces in an investigation, that person is likely to be vulnerable to innuendo, rumor, harassment, or retaliation.
(4)
Confidential sources and information.
We may withhold records whose release could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source of information. A confidential source may be an individual; a state, local or foreign Government agency; or any private organization. The exemption applies whether the source provides information under an express promise of confidentiality or under circumstances from which such an assurance could be reasonably inferred. Also, where the record or information in it has been compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority conducting a criminal investigation or by an agency conducting a lawful national security investigation, the exemption also protects all information supplied by a confidential source. Also protected from mandatory disclosure is any information which, if disclosed, could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the system of confidentiality that assures a flow of information from sources to investigatory agencies.
(5)
Techniques and procedures.
We may withhold records reflecting special techniques or procedures of investigation or prosecution not otherwise generally known to the public. In some cases, it is not possible to describe even in general terms those techniques without disclosing the very material to
be withheld. We may also withhold records whose release would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if this disclosure could reasonably be expected to create a risk that someone could circumvent requirements of law or of regulation.
(6)
Life and physical safety.
We may withhold records whose disclosure could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual. This protection extends to threats and harassment as well as to physical violence.
(h)
Exemptions eight and nine—Records on financial institutions and records on wells.
(1) Exemption eight permits us to withhold records about regulation or supervision of financial institutions.
(2) Exemption nine permits the withholding of geological and geophysical information and data, including maps concerning wells.
§ 503.9
Electronic records.
(a)
Introduction.
This section applies to all records of the BBG, including all of its worldwide operations. Congress enacted the FOIA to require Federal agencies to make records available to the public through public inspections and at the request of any person for any public or private use. The increase in the Government's use of computers enhances the public's access to Government information. This section addresses and explains how records will be reviewed and released when the records are maintained in electronic format. Documentation not previously subject to the FOIA when maintained in a non-electronic format is not made subject to FOIA by this law.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Compelling need.
Obtaining records on an expedited basis because of an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual, or urgently needed by an individual primarily engaged in disseminating information to the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activities.
(2)
Discretionary disclosure.
Records or information normally exempt from disclosure will be released whenever it is possible to do so without reasonably foreseeable harm to any interest protected by an FOIA exemption.
(3)
Electronic reading room.
The room provided which makes electronic records available.
(c)
Electronic format of records.
(1) Materials such as agency opinions and policy statements (available for public inspection and copying) will be available electronically by accessing the BBG's Home Page via the Internet at
http://www.ibb.gov.
To set up an appointment to view such records in hard copy or to access the Internet via the BBG's computer, please contact the FOIA/Privacy Act Officer at (202) 260-4404.
(2) We will make available for public inspection and copying, both electronically via the Internet and in hard copy, those records that have been previously released in response to FOIA requests, when we determine the records have been or are likely to be the subject of future requests.
(3) We will provide both electronically through our Internet address and in hard copy a “Guide” on how to make an FOIA request, and an Index of all Agency information systems and records that may be requested under the FOIA.
(4) We may delete identifying details when we publish or make available the index and copies of previously-released records to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(i) We will indicate the extent of any deletions made from the place the deletion was made, if possible.
(ii) We will not reveal information about deletions if such disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption.
(d)
Honoring form or format requests.
We will aid requesters by providing records and information in the form requested, including electronic format, if we can readily reproduce them in that form or format. However, if we cannot accommodate you, we will provide responsive, nonexempt information in a reasonably accessible form.
(1) We will make a reasonable effort to search for records kept in an electronic format. However, if the effort would significantly interfere with the operations of the agency or the agency's use of its computers, we will consider the effort to be unreasonable.
(2) We need not create documents that do not exist, but computer records found in a database rather than in a file cabinet may require the application of codes or some form of programming to retrieve the information. This application of codes or programming of records will not amount to the creation of records.
(3) Except in unusual cases, the cost of computer time will not be a factor in calculating the two free hours of search time available under Sec. 503.7. In those unusual cases, where the cost of conducting a computerized search significantly detracts from the agency's ordinary operations, no more than the dollar cost of two hours of manual search time shall be allowed. For searches conducted beyond the first two hours, the agency shall only charge the direct costs of conducting such searches.
(e)
Technical feasibility of redacting non-releasable material.
We will make every effort to indicate the place on the record where a redaction of non-releasable material is made, and an FOIA citation noting the applicable exemption for the deletion will also be placed at the site. If unable to do so, we will notify you of that fact.
(f)
Ensuring timely response to request.
We will make every attempt to respond to FOIA requests within the prescribed 20 working-day time limit. However, processing some requests may require additional time in order to properly screen material against the inadvertent disclosure of material covered by the exemptions.
(1)
Multitrack first-in first-out processing.
(i) Because the agency expects to be able to process its requests without a backlog of cases, BBG will not institute a multitract system. Those cases that may be handled easily, because they require only a few documents or a simple answer, will be handled immediately by an FOIA specialist.
(ii) If you wish to qualify for faster processing, you may limit the scope of your request so that we may respond more quickly.
(2)
Unusual circumstances.
(i) The agency may extend for a maximum of ten working days the statutory time limit for responding to an FOIA request by giving notice in writing as to the reason for such an extension. The reasons for such an extension may include: the need to search for and collect requested records from multiple offices; the volume of records requested; and, the need for consultation with other components within the agency.
(ii) If an extra ten days still does not provide sufficient time for the Agency to deal with your request, we will inform you that the request cannot be processed within the statutory time limit and provide you with the opportunity to limit the scope of your request and/or arrange with us a negotiated deadline for processing your request.
(iii) If you refuse to reasonably limit the scope of your request or refuse to agree upon a time frame, the agency will process your case, as it would have, had no modification been sought. We will make a diligent, good-faith effort to complete our review within the statutory time frame.
(3)
Grouping of requests.
We will group together requests that clearly involve related material that should be considered as a single request.
(i) If you make multiple or related requests for similar material for the purpose of avoiding costs, we will notify you that we are grouping together your requests, and the reasons why.
(ii) Multiple or related requests may also be grouped, such as those involving requests and schedules but you will be notified in advance if we intend to do so.
(g)
Time periods for agency consideration of requests
—(1)
Expedited access.
We will authorize expedited access to requesters who show a compelling need for access, but the burden is on the requester to prove that expedition is appropriate. We will determine within ten days whether or not to grant a request for expedited access and we will notify the requester of our decision.
(2)
Compelling need for expedited access.
Failure to obtain the records within an expedited deadline must pose an imminent threat to an individual's life or physical safety; or the request must be made by someone primarily engaged in disseminating information, and who has an urgency to inform the
public about actual or alleged Federal Government activity.
(3)
How to request expedited access.
We will be required to make factual and subjective judgments about the circumstances cited by requesters to qualify them for expedited processing. To request expedited access, your request must be in writing and it must explain in detail your basis for seeking expedited access. The categories for compelling need are intended to be narrowly applied:
(i)
A threat to an individual's life or physical safety.
A threat to an individual's life or physical safety should be imminent to qualify for expedited access to the records. You must include the reason why a delay in obtaining the information could reasonably be foreseen to cause significant adverse consequences to a recognized interest.
(ii)
Urgency to inform.
The information requested should pertain to a matter of a current exigency to the American public, where delay in response would compromise a significant recognized interest. The person requesting expedited access under an “urgency to inform,” must be primarily engaged in the dissemination of information. This does not include individuals who are engaged only incidentally in the dissemination of information. “Primarily engaged” requires that information dissemination be the main activity of the requester. A requester only incidentally engaged in information dissemination, besides other activities, would not satisfy this requirement. The public's right to know, although a significant and important value, would not by itself be sufficient to satisfy this standard.
(4)
Estimation of matter denied.
The agency will try to estimate the volume of any denied material and provide the estimate to the requester, unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an exemption.
(h)
Computer redaction.
The agency will identify the location of deletions in the released portion of the records, and where technologically possible, will show the deletion at the place on the record where the deletion was made, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by an exemption.
(i)
Annual report on FOIA activities.
Reports on FOIA activities are submitted each fiscal year to the Department of Justice, and are due by February 1 of every year. The BBG's report will be available both in hard copy and through the Internet. The Department of Justice will also report all Federal agency FOIA activity through electronic means.
(j)
Reference materials and guides.
The agency has available in hard copy, and electronically through the Internet, a guide for requesting records under the FOIA, and an index and description of all major information systems of the agency. The guide is a simple explanation of what the FOIA is intended to do, and how you can use it to access BBG records. The Index explains the types of records that may be requested from the Agency through FOIA requests and why some records cannot, by law, be made available by the BBG.
Pt. 504

# PART 504—TESTIMONY BY BBG EMPLOYEES, PRODUCTION OF OFFICIAL RECORDS, AND DISCLOSURE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
504.1
Scope and purpose.
504.2
Applicability.
504.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Demands or Requests for Testimony and Production of Documents
504.4
General prohibition.
504.5
Factors the BBG will consider.
504.6
Filing requirements for litigants seeking documents or testimony.
504.7
Service of requests or demands.
504.8
Processing requests or demands.
504.9
Final determinations.
504.10
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
504.11
Restrictions that apply to released records.
504.12
Procedure when a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
504.13
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.

# Subpart C—Schedule of Fees
504.14
Fees.

# Subpart D—Penalties
504.15
Penalties

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 6204.

# Source:
72 FR 19798, Apr. 20, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 504.1
Scope and purpose.
(a) These regulations in this subpart establish policy, assign responsibilities and prescribe procedures with respect to:
(1) The production or disclosure of official information or records by BBG employees, and
(2) The testimony of current and former BBG employees, relating to official information, official duties, or the BBG's records, in connection with federal or state litigation in which the BBG is not a party.
(b) The BBG intends these provisions to:
(1) Conserve the time of BBG employees for conducting official business;
(2) Minimize the involvement of BBG employees in issues unrelated to BBG's mission;
(3) Maintain the impartiality of BBG employees in disputes between private litigants; and
(4) Protect sensitive, confidential information and the deliberative processes of the BBG.
(c) In providing for these requirements, the BBG does not waive the sovereign immunity of the United States.
(d) This part provides guidance for the internal operations of BBG. It does not create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, that a party may rely upon in any legal proceeding against the United States.
§ 504.2
Applicability.
This part applies to demands and requests to current and former employees for factual or expert testimony relating to official information or official duties or for production of official records or information, in legal proceedings in which the BBG is not a named party. This part does not apply to:
(a) Demands upon or requests for a BBG employee to testify as to facts or events that are unrelated to his or her official duties or that are unrelated to the functions of the BBG;
(b) Demands upon or requests for a former BBG employee to testify as to matters in which the former employee was not directly or materially involved while at the BBG;
(c) Requests for the release of records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, or the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a; or
(d) Congressional demands and requests for testimony, records or information.
§ 504.3
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
(a) Demand means an order, subpoena, or other command of a court or other competent authority for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of a BBG employee in a legal proceeding.
(b) General Counsel means the General Counsel of the BBG or a person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part.
(c) Legal proceeding means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.
(d) BBG means the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(e) BBG employee means:
(1) Any current or former employee of the BBG.
(2) This definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the BBG and who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the BBG.
(f) Records or official records and information means all information in the custody and control of the BBG, relating to information in the custody and control of the BBG, or acquired by a BBG employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status, while the individual was employed by the BBG.
(g) Request means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.
(h) Testimony means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.

# Subpart B—Demands or Requests for Testimony and Production of Documents
§ 504.4
General prohibition.
(a) In any United States federal, state, and local proceeding or administrative action, or proceeding or administrative action conducted in a foreign country, in which the BBG is not a party, no BBG employee shall, in response to a demand or request for official records or information, furnish or produce documents or testimony as to any material contained in BBG files, any information relating to or based upon material contained in BBG files, or any information or material acquired as part of the performance of that person's official duties (or because of that person's official status) without the prior written approval of the General Counsel.
(b) Whenever a request or demand for information is made upon a BBG employee, the employee, wherever located, shall immediately prepare a report that specifically describes the testimony or documents sought and immediately notify the General Counsel. The BBG employee shall then await instructions from the General Counsel concerning a response to the request or demand. The failure of any BBG employee to follow the procedures specified in this subpart neither creates nor confers any rights, privileges, or benefits on any person or party.
§ 504.5
Factors the BBG will consider.
The General Counsel, in his or her sole discretion, may grant an employee permission to testify on matters relating to official information, or produce official records and information, in response to a demand or request. Among the relevant factors that the General Counsel may consider in making this decision are whether:
(a) The purposes of this part are met;
(b) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be necessary to prevent a miscarriage of justice;
(c) Allowing such testimony or production of records would assist or hinder the BBG in performing its statutory duties;
(d) Allowing such testimony or production of records would be in the best interest of the BBG or the United States;
(e) The records or testimony can be obtained from other sources;
(f) The demand or request is unduly burdensome or otherwise inappropriate under the applicable rules of discovery or the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand or request arose;
(g) Disclosure would violate a statute, Executive Order or regulation;
(h) Disclosure would reveal confidential, sensitive, or privileged information, trade secrets or similar, confidential or financial information, otherwise protected information, or information which would otherwise be inappropriate for release;
(i) Disclosure would impede or interfere with an ongoing law enforcement investigation or proceeding, or compromise constitutional rights or national security interests;
(j) Disclosure would result in the BBG appearing to favor one litigant over another;
(k) The request was served before the demand;
(l) A substantial Government interest is implicated;
(m) The demand or request is within the authority of the party making it; and
(n) The demand or request is sufficiently specific to be answered and/or can be limited to information to that which would be consistent with the factors specified herein.
§ 504.6
Filing requirements for litigants seeking documents or testimony.
A litigant must comply with the following requirements when filing a request for official records and information or testimony under this subpart. A request should be filed before a demand.
(a) The request must be in writing and must be submitted to the General Counsel.
(b) The written request must contain the following information:
(1) The caption of the legal proceeding, docket number, and name and address of the court or other authority involved;
(2) A copy of the complaint or equivalent document setting forth the assertions in the case and any other pleading or document necessary to show relevance;
(3) A list of categories of records sought, a detailed description of how the information sought is relevant to the issues in the legal proceeding, and a specific description of the substance of the testimony or records sought;
(4) A statement as to how the need for the information outweighs any need to maintain the confidentiality of the information and outweighs the burden on the BBG to produce the records or provide testimony;
(5) A statement indicating that the information sought is not available from another source, from other persons or entities, or from the testimony of someone other than an BBG employee, such as a retained expert;
(6) If testimony is requested, the intended use of the testimony, and a showing that no document could be provided and used in lieu of testimony;
(7) A description of all prior decisions, orders, or pending motions in the case that bear upon the relevance of the requested records or testimony;
(8) The name, address, and telephone number of counsel to each party in the case; and
(9) An estimate of the amount of time that the requester and other parties will require for each BBG employee for time spent by the employee to prepare for testimony, in travel, and for attendance in the legal proceeding.
(c) The BBG reserves the right to require additional information to complete the request where appropriate.
(d) The request should be submitted at least 30 days before the date that records or testimony is required. Requests submitted in less than 30 days before records or testimony is required must be accompanied by a written explanation stating the reasons for the late request and the reasons for expedited processing.
(e) Failure to cooperate in good faith to enable the General Counsel to make an informed decision may serve as the basis for a determination not to comply with the request.
(f) The request should state that the requester will provide a copy of the BBG employee's statement free of charge and that the requester will permit the BBG to have a representative present during the employee's testimony.
§ 504.7
Service of requests or demands.
Requests or demands for official records or information or testimony under this Subpart must be served on the General Counsel, BBG, 330 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20237 by mail or fax at (202) 203-4585 and clearly marked “Part 504—Request for Testimony or Official Records in Legal Proceedings.”
§ 504.8
Processing requests or demands.
(a) After receiving service of a request or demand for testimony, the General Counsel will review the request and, in accordance with the provisions of this Subpart, determine whether, or under what conditions, to authorize the employee to testify on matters relating to official information and/or produce official records and information.
(b) Absent exigent circumstances, the BBG will issue a determination within 30 days from the date the request is received.
(c) The General Counsel may grant a waiver of any procedure described by this Subpart where a waiver is considered necessary to promote a significant interest of the BBG or the United States, or for other good cause.
(d) Certification (authentication) of copies of records. The BBG may certify that records are true copies in order to facilitate their use as evidence. If a requester seeks certification, the requester must request certified copies from the BBG at least 30 days before the date they will be needed. The request should be sent to the BBG General Counsel.
§ 504.9
Final determinations.
The General Counsel makes the final determination on demands or requests to employees for production of official records and information or testimony in litigation in which the BBG is not a party. All final determinations are within the sole discretion of the General Counsel. The General Counsel will notify the requester and, when appropriate, the court or other competent authority of the final determination, the reasons for the grant or denial of the request, and any conditions that the General Counsel may impose on the release of records or information, or on the testimony of an BBG employee. The General Counsel's decision exhausts administrative remedies for discovery of the information.
§ 504.10
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the testimony of BBG employees including, for example:
(1) Limiting the areas of testimony;
(2) Requiring the requester and other parties to the legal proceeding to agree that the transcript of the testimony will be kept under seal;
(3) Requiring that the transcript will be used or made available only in the particular legal proceeding for which testimony was requested. The General Counsel may also require a copy of the transcript of testimony at the requester's expense.
(b) The BBG may offer the employee's written declaration in lieu of testimony.
(c) If authorized to testify pursuant to this part, an employee may testify as to facts within his or her personal knowledge, but, unless specifically authorized to do so by the General Counsel, the employee shall not:
(1) Disclose confidential or privileged information; or
(2) For a current BBG employee, testify as an expert or opinion witness with regard to any matter arising out of the employee's official duties or the functions of the BBG unless testimony is being given on behalf of the United States (see also 5 CFR 2635.805).
(d) The scheduling of an employee's testimony, including the amount of time that the employee will be made available for testimony, will be subject to the BBG's approval.
§ 504.11
Restrictions that apply to released records.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of official records and information, including the requirement that parties to the proceeding obtain a protective order or execute a confidentiality agreement to limit access and any further disclosure. The terms of the protective order or of a confidentiality agreement must be acceptable to the General Counsel. In cases where protective orders or confidentiality agreements have already been executed, the BBG may condition the release of official records and information on an amendment to the existing protective order or confidentiality agreement.
(b) If the General Counsel so determines, original BBG records may be presented for examination in response to a request, but they may not be presented as evidence or otherwise used in a manner by which they could lose their identity as official BBG records, nor may they be marked or altered. In lieu of the original records, certified copies may be presented for evidentiary purposes.
§ 504.12
Procedure when a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
If a response to a demand or request is required before the General Counsel can make the determination referred to in § 504.9, the General Counsel, when necessary, will provide the court or other competent authority with a copy of this part, inform the court or other competent authority that the request is being reviewed, provide an estimate
as to when a decision will be made, and seek a stay of the demand or request pending a final determination.
§ 504.13
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
If the court or other competent authority fails to stay a demand or request, the employee upon whom the demand or request is made, unless otherwise advised by the General Counsel, will appear, if necessary, at the stated time and place, produce a copy of this part, state that the employee has been advised by counsel not to provide the requested testimony or produce documents, and respectfully decline to comply with the demand or request, citing
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951).

# Subpart C—Schedule of Fees
§ 504.14
Fees.
(a)
Generally.
The General Counsel may condition the production of records or appearance for testimony upon advance payment of a reasonable estimate of the costs to the BBG.
(b)
Fees for records.
Fees for producing records will include fees for searching, reviewing, and duplicating records, costs of attorney time spent in reviewing the request, and expenses generated by materials and equipment used to search for, produce, and copy the responsive information. Costs for employee time will be calculated on the basis of the hourly pay of the employee (including all pay, allowances, and benefits). Fees for duplication will be the same as those charged by the BBG in its Freedom of Information Act regulations at 22 CFR Part 503.
(c)
Witness fees.
Fees for attendance by a witness will include fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules. If no such fees are prescribed, witness fees will be determined based upon the rule of the Federal district court closest to the location where the witness will appear and on 28 U.S.C. 1821, as applicable. Such fees will include cost of time spent by the witness to prepare for testimony, in travel and for attendance in the legal proceeding, plus travel costs.
(d)
Payment of fees.
A requester must pay witness fees for current BBG employees and any record certification fees by submitting to the General Counsel a check or money order for the appropriate amount made payable to the Treasury of the United States. In the case of testimony of former BBG employees, the requester must pay applicable fees directly to the former BBG employee in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable statutes.
(e)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
The General Counsel, in his or her sole discretion, may, upon a showing of reasonable cause, waive or reduce any fees in connection with the testimony, production, or certification of records.
(f)
De minimis fees.
Fees will not be assessed if the total charge would be $10.00 or less.

# Subpart D—Penalties
§ 504.15
Penalties.
(a) An employee who discloses official records or information or gives testimony relating to official information, except as expressly authorized by the BBG, or as ordered by a Federal court after the BBG has had the opportunity to be heard, may face penalties as provided in any applicable enforcement statute.
(b) A current BBG employee who testifies or produces official records and information in violation of this part shall be subject to disciplinary action and, if done for a valuable consideration, may subject that person to criminal prosecution.
Pt. 505

# PART 505—PRIVACY ACT REGULATION
Sec.
505.1
Purpose and scope.
505.2
Definitions.
505.3
Procedures for requests.
505.4
Requirements and identification for making requests.
505.5
Disclosure of information.
505.6
Medical records.
505.7
Correction or amendment of record.
505.8
Agency review of requests for changes.
505.9
Review of adverse agency determination.
505.10
Disclosure to third parties.
505.11
Fees.
505.12
Civil remedies and criminal penalties.
505.13
General exemptions (Subsection (j)).
505.14
Specific exemptions (Subsection (k)).
505.15
Exempt systems of records used.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 93-579, 88 Stat. 1897; 5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
67 FR 8875, Feb. 27, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 505.1
Purpose and scope.
The Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) will protect individuals' privacy from misuses of their records, and grant individuals access to records concerning them which are maintained by the Agency's domestic and overseas offices, consistent with the provisions of Public Law 93-579, 88 Stat. 1897; 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. The Agency has also established procedures to permit individuals to amend incorrect records, to limit the disclosure of personal information to third parties, and to limit the number of sources of personal information. The Agency has also established internal rules restricting requirements of individuals to provide social security account numbers.
§ 505.2
Definitions.
(a)
Access Appeal Committee (AAC).
The body established by and responsible to the Broadcasting Board for reviewing appeals made by individuals to amend records held by the Agency.
(b)
Agency, BBG, our, we
or
us.
The BBG, its offices, divisions, branches and its worldwide operations.
(c)
Amend.
To make a correction to or expunge any portion of a record about an individual which that individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely or complete.
(d)
Individual
or
you.
A citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(e)
Maintain.
Collect, use, store, disseminate or any combination of these record keeping functions; exercise of control over and hence responsibility and accountability for systems of records.
(f)
Record.
Any information maintained by the Agency about an individual that can be reproduced, including finger or voice prints and photographs, and which is retrieved by that particular individual's name or personal identifier, such as a social security number.
(g)
Routine use.
With respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose, which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected. The common ordinary purposes for which records are used and all of the proper and necessary uses even if any such uses occur infrequently.
(h)
Statistical record.
A record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided in 12 U.S.C.8.
(i)
System of records.
A group of records under the maintenance and control of the Agency from which information is retrieved by the name or personal identifier of the individual.
(j)
Personnel record.
Any information about an individual that is maintained in a system of records by the Agency that is needed for personnel management or processes such as staffing, employee development, retirement, grievances and appeals.
(k)
Worldwide Operations.
Any of the foreign service establishments of the Agency.
§ 505.3
Procedures for requests.
(a) The agency will consider all written requests received from an individual for records pertaining to herself/himself as a request made under the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a) whether or not the individual specifically cites the Privacy Act when making the request.
(b) All requests under the Privacy Act should be directed to the FOIA/Privacy Act Office, Office of the General Counsel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, Suite 3349, 330 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20237, which will coordinate the search of all systems of records specified in the request. Requests should state name, date of birth, and social security number.
(c) Requests directed to any of the Agency's worldwide establishments which involve routine unclassified, administrative and personnel records available only at those establishments may be released to the individual by the establishment if it determines that such a release is authorized by the Privacy Act. All other requests shall be submitted by the establishment to the
FOIA/Privacy Act Office, Office of the General Counsel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, Suite 3349, 330 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20237, and the individual shall be so notified of this section in writing, when possible.
(d) In those instances where an individual requests records pertaining to herself/himself, as well as records pertaining to another individual, group or some other category of the Agency's records, only that portion of the request which pertains to records concerning the individual will be treated as a Privacy Act request. The remaining portions of such a request will be processed as a Freedom of Information Act request and sent to the office noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 505.4
Requirements and identification for making requests.
(a) When you seek access to Agency records, you may present your written request, fax it to (202) 260-4394 or mail it to the FOIA/Privacy Act Office, Office of the General Counsel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, Suite 3349, 330 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20237. The FOIA/Privacy Act Office may be visited between the hours of 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except for legal holidays.
(b) When you seek access to Agency records, you will be requested to present identification. You must state your full name, date of birth and social security number. You must also include your present mailing address and zip code, and if possible, a telephone number.
(c) When signing a statement confirming your identity, you should understand that knowingly and willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretenses is punishable by a fine of up to $5,000.
§ 505.5
Disclosure of information.
(a) In order to locate the system of records that you believe may contain information about you, you should first obtain a copy of the Agency's Notice of Systems of Records. By identifying a particular record system and by furnishing all the identifying information requested by that record system, it would enable us to more easily locate those records which pertain to you. At a minimum, any request should include the information specified in Sec. 505.4(b).
(b) In certain circumstances, it may be necessary for us to request additional information from you to ensure that the retrieved record does, in fact, pertain to you.
(c) All requests for information on whether or not the Agency's systems of records contain information about you will be acknowledged within 20 working days of receipt of that request. The requested records will be provided as soon as possible thereafter.
(d) If the Agency determines that the substance of the requested record is exceptionally sensitive, we will require you to furnish a signed, notarized statement that you are in fact the person named in the file before granting access to the records.
(e) Original records will not be furnished subject to and in accordance with fees established in § 505.11.
(f) Denial of access to records:
(1) The requirements of this section do not entitle you access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
(2) Under the Privacy Act, we are not required to permit access to records if the information is not retrievable by your name or other personal identifier; those requests will be processed as Freedom of Information Act requests.
(3) We may deny you access to a record, or portion thereof, if following a review it is determined that the record or portion falls within a system of records that is exempt from disclosure according to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) and 552a(k). See §§ 505.13 and 505.14 for a listing of general and specific exemptions.
(4) The decision to deny access to a record or a portion of the record is made by the Agency's Privacy Act Officer. The denial letter will advise you of your right to appeal the denial (See § 505.9 on Access Appeal Committee's review).
§ 505.6
Medical records.
If, in the judgment of the Agency, the release of medical information to
you could have an adverse effect, the Agency will arrange an acceptable alternative to granting access of such records directly to you. This normally involves the release of the information to a doctor named by you. However, this special procedure provision does not in any way limit your absolute right to receive a complete copy of your medical record.
§ 505.7
Correction or amendment of record.
(a) You have the right to request that we amend a record pertaining to you which you believe is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. At the time we grant access to a record, we will furnish guidelines for you to request amendment to the record.
(b) Requests for amendments to records must be in writing and mailed or delivered to the FOIA/Privacy Act Officer, FOIA/Privacy Act Office, Office of the General Counsel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, Suite 3349, 330 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20237, who will coordinate the review of the request to amend the record with the appropriate office(s). Such requests must contain, at a minimum, identifying information needed to locate the record, a brief description of the item or items of information to be amended, and the reason for the requested change. The requester should submit as much documentation, arguments or other data as seems warranted to support the request for amendment.
(c) We will review all requests for amendments to records within 20 working days of receipt of the request and either make the changes or inform you of our refusal to do so and the reasons.
§ 505.8
Agency review of requests for changes.
(a) In reviewing a record in response to a request to amend or correct a file, we will incorporate the criteria of accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness of the record in the review.
(b) If we agree with you to amend your records, we will:
(1) Advise you in writing;
(2) Correct the record accordingly;
(3) And, to the extent that an accounting of disclosure was maintained, advise all previous recipients of the record of the corrections.
(c) If we disagree with all or any portion of your request to amend a record, we will:
(1) Advise you of the reasons for the determination; and
(2) Inform you of your right to further review (see Sec. 505.9).
§ 505.9
Review of adverse agency determination.
(a) When we determine to deny a request to amend a record, or portion of the record, you may request further review by the Agency's Access Appeal Committee. The written request for review should be mailed to the Chairperson, Access Appeal Committee, FOIA/Privacy Act Office, Office of the General Counsel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, Suite 3349, 330 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20237. The letter should include any documentation, information or statement, which substantiates your request for review.
(b) The Agency's Access Appeal Committee will review the Agency's initial denial to amend the record and your documentation supporting amendment, within 30 working days. If additional time is required, you will be notified in writing of the reasons for the delay and the approximate date when the review is expected to be completed. Upon completion of the review, the Chairperson will notify you of the results.
(c) If the Committee upholds the Agency's denial to amend the record, the Chairperson will advise you of:
(1) The reasons for our refusal to amend the record;
(2) Your right and the procedure to add to the file a concise statement supporting your disagreement with the decision of the Agency; and
(3) Your right to seek judicial review of the Agency's refusal to amend the file.
(d) When you file a statement disagreeing with our refusal to amend a record, we will clearly annotate the record so that the fact that the record is disputed is apparent to anyone who may subsequently have access to, use of, or reason to disclose the file. If information is disclosed regarding the area of dispute, we will provide a copy
of your statement in the disclosure. Any statement, which may be included by the Agency regarding the dispute, will be limited to the reasons given to you for not amending the record. Copies of our statement shall be treated as part of your record, but will not be subject to amendment by you under these regulations.
§ 505.10
Disclosure to third parties.
We will not disclose any information about you to any person or another agency without your prior consent, except as provided for in the following paragraphs:
(a)
Medical records.
May be disclosed to a doctor or other medical practitioner, named by you, as prescribed in Sec. 505.6.
(b)
Accompanying individual.
When you are accompanied by any other person, we will require that you sign a statement granting consent to the disclosure of the contents of your record to that person.
(c)
Designees.
If a person requests another person's file, he or she must present a signed statement from the person of record that authorizes and consents to the release of the file to the designated individual.
(d)
Guardians.
Parents or legal guardians) of dependent minors or of an individual who has been declared by a court to be incompetent due to physical, mental or age incapacity, may act for and on behalf of the individual on whom the Agency maintains records.
(e)
Other disclosures.
A record may be disclosed without a request by or written consent of the individual to whom the record pertains if such disclosure conditions are authorized in accordance, with 5 U.S.C. 552a(b). These conditions are:
(1)
Disclosure within the Agency.
This condition is based upon a “need-to-know” concept, which recognizes that Agency personnel may require access to discharge their duties.
(2)
Disclosure to the public.
No consent by an individual is necessary if the record is required to be released under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552. The record may be exempt, however, under one of the nine exemptions of the FOIA.
(3)
Disclosure for a routine use.
No consent by an individual is necessary if the condition is necessary for a “routine use” as defined in Sec. 505.2(g). Information may also be released to other government agencies, that have statutory or other lawful authority to maintain such information.
(4)
Disclosure to the Bureau of the Census.
For purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity. Title 13 U.S.C. Section 8 limits the uses of these records and also makes them immune from compulsory disclosure.
(5)
Disclosure for statistical research and reporting.
The Agency will provide the statistical information requested only after all names and personal identifiers have been deleted from the records.
(6)
Disclosure to the National Archives.
For the preservation of records of historical value, according to 44 U.S.C. 2103.
(7)
Disclosure for law enforcement purposes.
Upon receipt of a written request by another Federal agency or a state or local government describing the law enforcement purpose for which a record is required, and specifying the particular record. Blanket requests for all records pertaining to an individual are not permitted under the Privacy Act.
(8)
Disclosure under emergency circumstances.
For the safety or health of an individual (e.g., medical records on a patient undergoing emergency treatment).
(9)
Disclosure to the Congress.
For matters within the jurisdiction of any House or Senate committee or subcommittee, and/or joint committee or subcommittee, but only when requested in writing from the Chairman of the committee or subcommittee.
(10)
Disclosure to the General Accounting Office (GAO).
For matters within the jurisdiction of the duties of the GAO's Comptroller General.
(11)
Disclosure according to court order.
According to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. This does not include a subpoena for records requested by counsel and issued by a clerk of court.
§ 505.11
Fees.
(a) The first copy of any Agency record about you will be provided free of charge. A fee of $0.15 per page will be charged for any additional copies requested by you.
(b) Checks or money orders should be made payable to the United States Treasurer and mailed to the FOIA/Privacy Act Office, Office of the General Counsel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, Suite 3349, 330 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20237. The Agency will not accept cash.
§ 505.12
Civil remedies and criminal penalties.
(a)
Grounds for court action.
You will have a remedy in the Federal District Court under the following circumstances:
(1)
Denial of access.
You may challenge our decision to deny you access to records to which you consider yourself entitled.
(2)
Refusal to amend a record.
Under the conditions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(g), you may seek judicial review of the Agency's refusal to amend a record.
(3)
Failure to maintain a record accurately.
You may bring suit against the Agency for any alleged intentional and willful failure to maintain a record accurately, if it can be shown that you were subjected to an adverse action resulting in the denial of aright, benefit, entitlement or employment you could reasonably have been expected to be granted if the record had not been deficient.
(4)
Other failures to comply with the Act.
You may bring an action for any alleged failure by the Agency to comply with the requirements of the Act or failure to comply with any rule published by the Agency to implement the Act provided it can be shown that:
(i) The action was intentional or willful;
(ii) The Agency's action adversely affected you; and
(iii) The adverse action was caused by the Agency's actions.
(b)
Jurisdiction and time limits.
(1) Action may be brought in the district court for the jurisdiction in which you reside or have a place of residence or business, or in which the Agency records are situated, or in the District of Columbia.
(2) The statute of limitations is two years from the date upon which the cause of action arises, except for cases in which the Agency has materially and willfully misrepresented any information requested to be disclosed and when such misrepresentation is material to the liability of the Agency. In such cases the statute of limitations is two years from the date of discovery of the misrepresentation by you.
(3) A suit may not be brought on the basis of injury, which may have occurred as a result of the Agency's disclosure of a record prior to September 27, 1975.
(c)
Criminal penalties
—(1)
Unauthorized disclosure.
It is a criminal violation of the provisions of the Act for any officer or employee of the Agency to knowingly and willfully disclose a record in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it, for failure to meet the conditions of disclosure listed in S U.S.C. 552a(b), or without the written consent or at the request of the individual to whom the record pertains. Any officer or employee of the Agency found guilty of such misconduct shall be fined not more than $5,000.
(2)
Failure to publish a public notice.
It is a criminal violation of the Act to willfully maintain a system of records and not publish the prescribed public notice. Any officer or employee of the Agency found guilty of such misconduct shall be fined not more than $5,000.
(3)
Obtaining records under false pretenses.
The Act makes it a criminal offense to knowingly and willfully request or gain access to a record about an individual under false pretenses. Any person found guilty of such an offense may be fined not more than $5,000.
§ 505.13
General exemptions (Subsection (j)).
(a) General exemptions are available for systems of records which are maintained by the Central Intelligence Agency (Subsection (j)(1)), or maintained by an agency which performs as
its principal function any activity pertaining to the enforcement of the criminal laws (Subsection (j)(2)).
(b) The Act does not permit general one exemption of records compiled primarily for a non-criminal purpose, even though there are some quasi-criminal aspects to the investigation and even though the records are in a system of records to which the general exemption applies.
§ 505.14
Specific exemptions (Subsection (k)).
The specific exemptions focus more on the nature of the records in the system of records than on the agency. The following categories of records may be exempt from disclosure:
(a)
Subsection (k)(1).
Records which are specifically authorized under criteria established under an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy, and which are in fact properly classified according to such Executive Order;
(b)
Subsection (k)(2).
Investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes (other than material within the scope of subsection (j)(2) as discussed in § 505.13(a)). If any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit for which she/he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, the material shall be provided to the individual, unless disclosure of the material would reveal the identity of a source who has been pledged confidentiality;
(c)
Subsection (k)(3).
Records maintained in connection with protection of the President and other VIPs accorded special protection by statute;
(d)
Subsection (k)(4).
Records required by statute to be maintained and used solely as statistical records.
(e)
Subsection (k)(5).
Records compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information, but only if disclosure of the material would reveal the identity of a confidential source that furnished information to the Government.
(f)
Subsection (k)(6).
Testing or examination records used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service when the disclosure of such would compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process.
(g)
Subsection (k)(7).
Evaluation records used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services, but only if disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source.
§ 505.15
Exempt systems of records used.
The BBG is authorized to use exemptions (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(4), (k)(5) and (k)(6).
Pt. 506

# PART 506—PART-TIME CAREER EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
Sec.
506.1
Purpose of program.
506.2
Review of positions.
506.3
Establishing and coverting part-time positions.
506.4
Annual goals and timetables.
506.5
Review and evaluation.
506.6
Publicizing vacancies.
506.7
Exceptions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 3401 (note and 3402).

# Source:
44 FR 63098, Nov. 2, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 506.1
Purpose of program.
Many individuals in society possess great productive potential which goes unrealized because they cannot meet the requirements of a standard workweek. Permanent part-time employment also provides benefits to other individuals in a variety of ways, such as providing older individuals with a gradual transition into retirement, providing employment opportunities to handicapped individuals or others who require a reduced workweek, providing parents opportunities to balance family responsibilities with the need for additional income, providing employment opportunities for women returning to the workforce and assisting students who must finance their own education or vocational training. In view of this, the Broadcasting Board of Governors will operate a part-time career employment program, consistent with the needs of its beneficiaries and its responsibilities.
§ 506.2
Review of positions.
Positions becoming vacant unless excepted as provided by § 506.7, will be reviewed to determine the feasibility of converting them to part-time. Among the criteria which may be used when conducting this review are:
(a) Mission requirements and occupational mix.
(b) Workload fluctuations.
(c) Employment ceilings and budgetary considerations.
(d) Size of workforce, turnover rate and employment trends.
(e) Affirmative action.
§ 506.3
Establishing and converting part-time positions.
Position management and other internal reviews may indicate that positions may be either converted from full-time or initially established as part-time positions. Criteria listed above may be used during these reviews. If a decision is made to convert to or to establish a part-time position, regular position management and classification procedures will be followed.
§ 506.4
Annual goals and timetables.
A Board-wide plan for promoting part-time employment opportunities will be developed annually by the Office of Personnel after consultation with the operating elements. This plan will establish annual goals and set deadlines for achieving these goals.
[44 FR 63098, Nov. 2, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 11015, Apr. 1, 1986]
§ 506.5
Review and evaluation.
The part-time career employment program will be reviewed through semiannual reports submitted by the Director, Office of Personnel to the Associate Director for Management. Regular employment reports will be used to determine levels of part-time employment.
[44 FR 63098, Nov. 2, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 11016, Apr. 1, 1986]
§ 506.6
Publicizing vacancies.
When applicants from outside the Federal service are desired, part-time vacancies may be publicized through various recruiting means, such as:
(a) Federal Job Information Centers.
(b) State Employment Offices.
(c) Broadcasting Board of Governors Vacancy Announcements.
(d) College and University Placement Offices.
§ 506.7
Exceptions.
The Director of the Board and the Associate Director for Management may except positions from inclusion in this program as necessary to carry out the mission of the Board.
Pt. 507

# PART 507—RULES FOR IMPLEMENTING OPEN MEETINGS UNDER THE SUNSHINE ACT FOR THE BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Sec.
507.1
General policies.
507.2
Definitions.
507.3
Requirement for open meetings.
507.4
Grounds on which meetings may be closed.
507.5
Procedures for announcing meetings.
507.6
Procedures for closing meetings.
507.7
Reconsideration of opening or closing a meeting.
507.8
Recording keeping of closed meetings.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 93-129, 87 Stat. 956, 5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
67 FR 76112, Dec. 11, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 507.1
General policies.
The Broadcasting Board of Governors will provide the public with the fullest practical information regarding its decision making process while protecting the rights of individuals and its abilities to carry out its responsibilities.
§ 507.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply:
(a) The term
agency
includes any establishment in the executive branch of the government headed by a collegial body composed of two or more individual members, a majority of whom are appointed to such position by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, and any subdivision thereof authorized to act on behalf of the agency. The Broadcasting Board of Governors is a government agency headed by a nine-member board, eight of whom are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the
Senate, and the ninth being the Secretary of State. Therefore, the Broadcasting Board of Governors is an “agency” under these terms.
(b) The term
meeting
means the deliberation of this Board where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business.
(c) The term
member
means an individual who belongs to the Board who has been appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate or is the Secretary of State.
§ 507.3
Requirement for open meetings.
Members shall not jointly conduct or dispose of agency business other than in accordance with this part. Except as provided in § 507.4 every portion of every meeting of the agency shall be open to public observation.
§ 507.4
Grounds on which meetings may be closed.
The Board shall open every portion of every meeting of the agency for public observation except where the agency determines that such portion or portions of the meeting or the disclosure of such information is likely to:
(a) Disclose matters that are:
(1) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy, and
(2) In fact properly classified pursuant to such Executive order;
(b) Relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practice of the agency;
(c) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute: Provided, that such statute:
(1) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or
(2) Established practical criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(d) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(e) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(f) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(g) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would:
(1) Interfere with enforcement proceedings,
(2) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial on an impartial adjudication,
(3) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy,
(4) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential source,
(5) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or
(6) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(h) Disclose information, the premature disclosure of which would be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action. This shall not apply in any instance where the Board has already disclosed to the public the content or the nature of its proposed action, or where the Board is required by law to make such disclosures on its own initiative prior to taking final Board action on such proposal; or
(i) Specifically concern the Board's issuance of a subpoena, or the Board's participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct or disposition by the Board of a particular case of formal agency adjudication, or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.
§ 507.5
Procedures for announcing meetings.
(a) In the case of each meeting, the Board shall make public, at least one week before the meeting, the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open or closed
to the public, and the name and phone number of the official designated by the Board to respond to requests for information about the meeting. Such announcement shall be made unless a majority of the members of the Board determine by a recorded vote that such meeting must be called at an earlier date, in which case the Board shall make public announcement of the time, place, subject matter of such meeting and whether it is open or closed to the public, at the earliest practical time.
(b) Immediately following the public announcement, the Board will publish it in the
Federal Register.
§ 507.6
Procedures for closing meetings.
(a) The closing of a meeting shall occur only when:
(1) A majority of the membership of the Board votes to take such action. A separate vote of the Board members shall be taken with respect to each Board meeting, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public pursuant to § 507.4, or with respect to any information which is proposed to be withheld under § 507.4. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held not more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. The vote of each Board member participating in such vote shall be recorded and no proxies shall be allowed.
(2) Whenever any person whose interest may be directly affected by a portion of the meeting requests that the Board close such a portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in § 507.4 (e), (f) or (g), the Board, upon request of any of its Board members, shall take a recorded vote, whether to close such portion of the meeting.
(b) Within one day of any vote taken, the Board shall make publicly available a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each member on the question and full written explanation of its action closing the entire or portion of the meeting together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation.
(c) The Board shall announce the time, place and subject matter of the meeting at least eight (8) days before the meeting.
(d) For every closed meeting, the Board's Legal Counsel shall publicly certify that, in his or her opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the Board.
§ 507.7
Reconsideration of opening or closing a meeting.
The time or place of a Board meeting may be changed following the public announcement only if the Board publicly announces such change at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of a meeting, or the determination of the agency to open or close a meeting, or a portion of a meeting, to the public, may be changed following the public announcement only if a majority of the Board members determines by a recorded vote that Board business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible, and the Board publicly announces such change and the vote of each member upon such change at the earliest practicable time.
§ 507.8
Recording keeping of closed meetings.
(a) The Board shall maintain an electronic recording of the proceedings of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public.
(b) The Board, after review by the Chairman, shall make promptly available to the public in a place easily accessible to the public, a complete transcript or electronic record of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or any item of testimony of any witness received at the Board meeting, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as the Board determines to contain information which may be withheld under § 507.4. Copies of such record, disclosing the identity of
each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication. The Board shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic copy of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Board proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later.
Pt. 510

# PART 510—SERVICE OF PROCESS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1)(A).
§ 510.1
Service of process.
(a) The General Counsel of the Broadcasting Board of Governors or any of his/her designees shall act as agent for the receipt of legal process against the Broadcasting Board of Governors, as well as against employees of the Board to the extent that the process relates to the official functions of the employees.
(b) When accepting service of process for an employee in his/her official capacity, the General Counsel or his/her designee shall endorse on the server's return of process form, registered mail receipt, certified mail receipt, or express mail receipt: “Service accepted in official capacity only.”
(c) Process shall be delivered to:
Mailing address: Office of the General Counsel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, 330 Independence Ave., SW., Cohen Building, Washington, DC 20237.
Location: Office of the General Counsel, Broadcasting Board of Governors, 330 Independence Ave., SW., Cohen Building, Room 3349, Washington, DC 20237.
[53 FR 50515, Dec. 16, 1988, as amended at 74 FR 7562, Feb. 18, 2009]
Pt. 511

# PART 511—FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS PROCEDURE
Sec.
511.1
Definitions.
511.2
Scope of regulations.
511.3
Exceptions.
511.4
Administrative claim; when presented.
511.5
Who may file claim.
511.6
Board authority to adjust, determine, compromise and settle claims and limitations upon that authority.
511.7
Investigations.
511.8
Limitations.
511.9
Supporting evidence.
511.10
Settlement of claim.
511.11
Acceptance of award.
511.12
When litigation is involved in claim.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
34 FR 20430, Dec. 31, 1969, unless otherwise noted.
§ 511.1
Definitions.
Board.
Board means the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
Act.
Act means the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, and codified in 28 U.S.C., sections 2671-2680.
§ 511.2
Scope of regulations.
The regulations in this part shall apply only to claims asserted under the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, or as incorporated by reference in any appropriation Act or other statutes, for money damages against the United States for injury, loss of property, personal injury, or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the Board while acting within the scope of his/her office or employment, under circumstances where the United States, if a private person, would be liable to the claimant in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred.
[43 FR 14301, Apr. 4, 1978]
§ 511.3
Exceptions.
Claims not compensable hereunder are listed in 2680 of the Act with the exception that 2680(k) (claims arising in a foreign country) has been removed by 22 U.S.C. 1474(5).
[44 FR 16374, Mar. 19, 1979]
§ 511.4
Administrative claim; when presented.
(a) For the purposes of the provisions of section 2672 of the Act and of this part, a claim shall be deemed to have been presented when the Board receives, in the office designated in paragraph (b) of this section, an executed “Claim for Damage or Injury”, Standard Form 95, or other written notification of an incident, accompanied by a claim for money damages in a sum certain, for injury to or loss of property, personal injury or death, alleged to
have occurred by reason of the incident. The claimant may, if he/she desires, file a brief with his/her claim setting forth the law or other arguments in support of his/her claim. In cases involving claims by more than one person arising from a single accident or incident, individual claim forms shall be used. A claim which should have been presented to the Board, but which was mistakenly addressed to or filed with another Federal Agency, shall be deemed to have been presented to the Board as of the date the claim is received by the Board. If a claim is mistakenly addressed to or filed with the Board, the Board shall transfer it forthwith to the appropriate Agency.
(b) A claimant shall mail, or deliver his/her claim to the Office of the General Counsel and Congressional Liaison, Broadcasting Board of Governors, 301 4th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20547.
[34 FR 20430, Dec. 31, 1969, as amended at 51 FR 11016, Apr. 1, 1986]
§ 511.5
Who may file claim.
(a) Claims for loss or damage of property may be filed by the owner of the property, or his/her legal representatives. Claims for personal injury or death may be made by the injured person or a legal representative of the injured or deceased person. The claim, if filed by a legal representative, should show the capacity of the person signing and be accompanied by evidence of this authority to act.
(b) The claim and all other papers requiring the signature of the claimant should be signed by him/her personally or by his/her representative. Signatures should be identical throughout.
§ 511.6
Board authority to adjust, determine, compromise, and settle claims and limitations upon that authority.
(a) The General Counsel of the Board, or his/her designee, is delegated authority to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, compromise, and settle claims asserted under the provisions of section 2672 of the Act and under this part.
(b) Limitation on Board authority: An award, compromise, or settlement of a claim by the Board under the provisions of section 2672 of the Act, in excess of $25,000, shall be effected only with the prior written approval of the Attorney General or his/her designee.
§ 511.7
Investigations.
The Board may request any other Federal agency to investigate a claim filed under section 2672 of the Act, or to conduct a physical or mental examination of the claimant and provide a report of such examination.
§ 511.8
Limitations.
(a) Pursuant to the provisions of section 2401(b) of title 28 of the United States Code, a tort claim against the United States shall be forever barred unless presented in writing to the Board within two (2) years after such claim accrues.
(b) A suit may not be filed until the claim shall have been finally denied by the Board. Failure of the Board to make final disposition of the claim within six (6) months after it has been presented shall, at the option of the claimant any time thereafter, be deemed a final denial of the claim for purposes of the Act and of this part.
(c) A suit shall not be filed for a sum greater than the amount of the claim presented to the Board, except where the increased amount is based upon newly discovered evidence not reasonably discoverable at the time for presenting the claim to the Board, or upon allegation and proof of intervening facts, relating to amount of the claim.
§ 511.9
Supporting evidence.
(a) In support of claims for personal injury or death, the claimant should submit a written report by the attending physician. The report should show the nature and extent of injury, the nature and extent of treatment, the effect upon earning capacity, either temporarily or permanently, the degree of permanent disability, if any, the prognosis, and the period of hospitalization, or incapacitation. Itemized bills for medical, hospital, or burial expenses actually incurred should be attached to report.
(b) In support of claims for damage to property which as been or can be economically repaired, the claimant should submit at least two itemized
signed statements, or estimates by reliable, disinterested firms or itemized signed receipts if payment has been made.
(c) In support of claims for loss or damage to property which is not economically repairable, the claimant should submit statements of the original cost of the property, date of purchase, and the value of the property before and after the accident together with a statement setting forth the basis used in arriving at such value. Such statements should be from at least two disinterested, competent persons, preferably reputable dealers or other qualified persons familiar with the type of property in question.
§ 511.10
Settlement of claim.
The General Counsel will review the findings from the standpoint of questions of law applicable to the claim and will determine disposition. The General Counsel will make final review for settlement of the claim and will sign SF-1145, Voucher for Payment Under Federal Tort Claims Act, and forward it to the Financial Operations Division for payment of claim. Payment of any award or settlement in the amount of $2,500 or less will be authorized from the appropriation and allotment current for obligation on the date of settlement irrespective of when the cause of action arose. Payment of any award, compromise or settlement in an amount in excess of $2,500, shall be paid in a manner similar to judgments and compromises out of the appropriation provided by section (c), Pub. L. 89-506 (28 U.S.C. 2672).
§ 511.11
Acceptance of award.
The acceptance by the claimant of any award will be final and conclusive on the claimant. The acceptance will constitute a complete release of any claim by reason of the same subject matter against the United States and against the employee whose act or omission resulted in the claim. Adjudication and payment shall likewise be conclusive on all officers of the United States, unless procured by fraud.
§ 511.12
When litigation is involved in claim.
If a claimant does not agree to a settlement of a claim of which is considered fair and equitable by the Board's responsible officials, the claimant, upon the final disposition thereof by the Board, may elect to file suit. Relief from claims which are disallowed may be sought by filing suit in the U.S. District Court for the district where the claimant resides or wherein the act of omission complained of occurred. The failure of the Board to make final disposition of a claim within 6 months after it has been filed shall, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2672, and at the option of the claimant at any time thereafter, is deemed a final denial of the claim. If a suit is filed against the Government involving the Board, the Department of Justice will request the Board to furnish the complete file on the case. The Office of the General Counsel will represent the Board in all negotiations with the Department of Justice.
Pt. 512

# PART 512—COLLECTION OF DEBTS UNDER THE DEBT COLLECTION ACT OF 1982

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
512.1
Definitions.
512.2
Exceptions.
512.3
Use of procedures.
512.4
Conformance to law and regulations.
512.5
Other procedures.
512.6
Informal action.
512.7
Return of property.
512.8
Omissions not a defense.

# Subpart B—Administrative Offset and Referral to Collection Agencies
512.9
Demand for payment.
512.10
Collection by administrative offset.
512.11
Administrative offset against amounts payable for Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
512.12
Collection in installments.
512.13
Exploration of compromise.
512.14
Suspending or terminating collection action.
512.15
Referrals to the Department of Justice or the General Accounting Office.
512.16
Collection services.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
512.17
Purpose.
512.18
Scope.
512.19
Definitions.
512.20
Notification.
512.21
Hearing.
512.22
Deduction from pay.
512.23
Liquidation from final check or recovery from other payment.
512.24
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
512.25
Refunds.
512.26
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
512.27
Recovery when paying agency is not creditor agency.

# Subpart D—Interest, Penalties, and Administrative Costs
512.28
Assessment.
512.29
Exemptions.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3701; 31 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.;
5 U.S.C. 5514; 4 CFR Parts 101-105; 5 CFR Part 550.

# Source:
52 FR 43897, Nov. 17, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 512.1
Definitions.
(a) The term
Board
means the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(b) The term
Board head
means the Director, Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(c) The term
appropriate Board official
or
designee
means the Chief, Financial Operations Division or such other official as may be named in the future by the Director, Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(d) The terms
debt
or
claim
refer to an amount of money which has been determined by an appropriate Board official to be owed to the United States from any person, organization or entity, except another Federal Agency.
(e) A debt is considered
delinquent
if it has not been paid by the date specified in the Board's written notification or applicable contractual agreement, unless other satisfactory arrangements have been made by that date, or at any time thereafter the debtor fails to satisfy obligations under a payment agreement with the Board.
(f) The term
referral for litigation
means referral to the Department of Justice for appropriate legal proceedings.
§ 512.2
Exceptions.
(a) Claims arising from the audit of transportation accounts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3726 shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled in accordance with the regulations published under 31 U.S.C. 3726 (refer to 41 CFR part 101-41).
(b) Claims arising out of acquisition contracts subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated or settled in accordance with those regulations (see 48 CFR part 32). If not otherwise provided for in the FAR system, contract claims that have been the subject of a contracting officer's final decision in accordance with section 6(a) of the Contracts Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 605(a)), may be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled under the provisions of this regulation, except no additional review of the debt shall be granted beyond that provided by the contracting officer in accordance with the provisions of section 6 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 605), and the amount of any interest, administrative charge, or penalty charge shall be subject to the limitations, if any, contained in the contract out of which the claim arose.
(c) Claims based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws, or in regard to which there is an indication of fraud, presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any other party having an interest in the claim, shall be referred to the Department of Justice (DOJ) as only the DOJ has the authority to compromise, suspend or terminate collection action on such claims.
(d) Tax claims are excluded from the coverage of this regulation.
§ 512.3
Use of procedures.
Procedures authorized by this regulation (including but not limited to referral to a debt collection agency, administrative offset, or salary offset) may be used singly or in combination, providing the requirements of the applicable law and regulation are satisfied.
§ 512.4
Conformance to law and regulations.
(a) The requirements of applicable law (31 U.S.C. 3701-3719 as amended by
Pub. L. 97-365, (96 Stat. 1749) have been implemented in Government-wide standards:
(1) The regulations of the Office of Personnel Management (5 CFR part 550).
(2) The Federal Claims Collection Standards issued jointly by the General Accounting Office and the Department of Justice (4 CFR parts 101-105), and
(3) The procedures prescribed by the Office of Management and Budget in Circular A-129 of May 9, 1985.
(b) Not every item in the above described standards has been incorporated or referenced in this regulation. To the extent, however, that circumstances arise which are not covered by the terms stated in this regulation, Broadcasting Board of Governors will proceed in any actions taken in accordance with applicable requirements found in the sources referred to in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.
§ 512.5
Other procedures.
Nothing contained in this regulation is intended to require Broadcasting Board of Governors to duplicate administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
§ 512.6
Informal action.
Nothing in this regulation is intended to preclude utilization of informal administrative actions or remedies which may be available.
§ 512.7
Return of property.
Nothing contained in this regulation is intended to deter Broadcasting Board of Governors from demanding the return of specific property or from demanding the return of the property or the payment of its value.
§ 512.8
Omissions not a defense.
The failure of Broadcasting Board of Governors to comply with any provision in this regulation shall not serve as a defense to the debt.

# Subpart B—Administrative Offset and Referral to Collection Agencies
§ 512.9
Demand for payment.
Prior to initiating administrative offset, demand for payment will be made as follows:
(a) Written demands will be made promptly upon the debtor in terms which inform the debtor of the consequences of failure to cooperate. A total of three progressively stronger written demands at not more than 30-day intervals will normally be made unless a response to the first or second demand indicates that further demand would be futile and the debtor's response does not require rebuttal. In determining the timing of demand letters, Broadcasting Board of Governors will give due regard to the need to act promptly so that, as a general rule, debt referrals to the Department of Justice for litigation, where necessary, can be made within one year of the Board's final determination of the fact and the amount of the debt. When necessary to protect the Government's interests (e.g., to prevent the statute of limitations, 28 U.S.C. 2415, from expiring) written demand may be preceded by other appropriate actions under this chapter, including immediate referral for litigation.
(b) The initial demand letter will inform the debtor of: The basis for the indebtedness and the right of the debtor to request review within the Board; the applicable standards for assessing interest, penalties, and administrative costs (Subpart D of this regulation) and; the date by which payment is to be made, which normally will not be more than 30 days from the date that the initial demand letter was mailed or hand delivered. Broadcasting Board of Governors will exercise care to insure that demand letters are mailed or hand-delivered on the same day that they are actually dated.
(c) As appropriate to the circumstances, Broadcasting Board of Governors will include in the demand letters matters relating to alternative methods of payment, the debtor's rights to representation by his respective bargaining unit, policies relating to referral to collection agencies, the
Board's intentions relative to referral of the debt to the Department of Justice for litigation, and, depending on the statutory authority, the debtor's entitlement to consideration of waiver.
(d) Broadcasting Board of Governors will respond promptly to communications from the debtor and will advise debtors who dispute the debt that they must furnish available evidence to support their contention.
§ 512.10
Collection by administrative offset.
(a) Collection by administrative offset will be undertaken in accordance with these regulations on all claims which are liquidated and certain in amount, in every instance where the appropriate Board official determines such collection to be feasible and not otherwise prohibited.
(1) For purpose of this section, the term
administrative offset
has the same meaning as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a)(1).
(2) Whether collection by administrative offset is feasible is a determination to be made by the Board on a case-by-case basis, in the exercise of sound discretion. Broadcasting Board of Governors will consider not only the practicalities of administrative offset, but whether such offset is best suited to protect and further all of the Government's interests. Broadcasting Board of Governors will give consideration to the debtor's financial condition, and is not required to use offset in every instance where there is an available source of funds. Broadcasting Board of Governors will also consider whether offset would tend to substantially disrupt or defeat the purpose of the program authorizing the payments against which offset is contemplated.
(b) Before the offset is made, a debtor shall be provided with the following: written notice of the nature and the amount of the debt and the Board's intention to collect by offset; opportunity to inspect and copy Board records pertaining to the debt; opportunity to obtain review within the Board of the determination of indebtedness; and opportunity to enter into written agreement with the Board to repay the debt. Broadcasting Board of Governors may also make requests to other agencies holding funds payable to the debtor, and process requests for offset that are received from other agencies.
(1) Broadcasting Board of Governors will exercise sound judgment in determining whether to accept a repayment agreement in lieu of offset. The determination will weigh the Government's interest in collecting the debt against fairness to the debtor.
(2) In cases where the procedural requirements specified in this paragraph (b) have previously been provided to the debtor in connection with the same debt under some other statutory or regulatory authority, such as pursuant to an audit allowance, the Board is not required to duplicate those requirements before taking administrative offset.
(3) Broadcasting Board of Governors may not initiate administrative offset to collect a debt more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials of the Government who were charged with the responsibility to discover and collect the debt. When the debt first accrued is to be determined according to existent law regarding the accrual of debts (e.g., 28 U.S.C. 2415).
(4) Broadcasting Board of Governors is not authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3716 to use administrative offset with respect to: Debts owed by any State or local Government; debts arising under or payments made under the Social Security Act, the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or the tariff laws of the United States; or any case in which collection of the type of debt involved by administrative offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute. Unless otherwise provided by contract or law, debts or payments which are not subject to administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 may be collected by administrative offset under the common law or other applicable statutory authority.
(5) Broadcasting Board of Governors may effect administrative offset against a payment to be made to a debtor prior to completion of the procedures required by paragraph (b) of
this section if failure to take offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt, and the time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of those procedures. Amounts recovered by offset but later determined not to be owed to the Government shall be promptly refunded 30 days after the Board has notified the debtor in writing that the debt is not owed. Such written notification will be issued within 15 days after the Board has confirmed through a review of its official records that the debt is not owed.
(c) Type of hearing or review: (1) For purposes of this section, whenever Broadcasting Board of Governors is required to afford a hearing or review within the Board, the Board will provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when: An applicable statute authorizes or requires the Board to consider waiver of the indebtedness involved, the debtor requests waiver of the indebtedness, and the waiver determination turns on an issue of veracity; or the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt and the Board determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary type hearing.
(2) This section does not require an oral hearing with respect to debt collection systems in which determinations of indebtedness or waiver rarely involve issues of veracity and the Board has determined that the review of the written record is ordinarily enough to correct prior mistakes.
(3) In those cases where an oral hearing is not required by this section, the Board will make its determination on the request for waiver or reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.
(d) Appropriate use will be made of the cooperative efforts of other agencies in effecting collection by administrative offset. Broadcasting Board of Governors will not refuse to initiate administrative offset to collect debts owed the United States, unless the requesting agency has not complied with the applicable provisions of these standards.
(e) Collection by offset against a judgment obtained against the United States shall be accomplished in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3728.
(f) Whenever the creditor agency is not the agency which is responsible for making the payment against which offset is sought, the latter agency shall not initiate the requested offset until it has been provided by the creditor agency with an appropriate written certification that the debtor owes the debt (including the amount) and that full compliance with the provisions of this section has taken place.
(g) When collecting multiple debts by administrative offset, Broadcasting Board of Governors will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, paying particular attention to the applicable statutes of limitations.
§ 512.11
Administrative offset against amounts payable from Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
(a) Unless otherwise prohibited by law, Broadcasting Board of Governors may request that monies that are due and payable to a debtor from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund be administratively offset in reasonable amounts in order to collect in one full payments, or a minimal number of payment, debts owed the United States by the debtor. Such requests shall be made to the appropriate officials within the Office of Personnel Management in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed by the Director of that Office.
(b) When making a request for administrative offset under paragraph (a) of this section, Broadcasting Board of Governors shall include written statements that:
(1) The debtor owes the United States a debt, including the amount of the debt;
(2) The Broadcasting Board of Governors has complied with the applicable statutes, regulations, and procedures of the Office of Personnel Management; and
(3) The Broadcasting Board of Governors has complied with the requirements of § 512.10 of this part, including any required hearing or review.
(c) Once Broadcasting Board of Governors decides to request offset under paragraph (a) of this section, it will make the request as soon as practical after completion of the applicable procedures in order that the Office of Personnel Management may identify the debtor's account in anticipation of the time when the debtor requests or becomes eligible to receive payments from the Fund. This will satisfy any requirement that offset be initiated prior to expiration of the applicable statute of limitations.
(d) If Broadcasting Board of Governors collects part or all of the debt by other means before deductions are made or completed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, Broadcasting Board of Governors shall act promptly to modify or terminate its request for offset under paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) This section does not require or authorize the Office of Personnel Management to review the merits of the Broadcasting Board of Governors determination relative to the amount and validity of the debt, its determination on waiver under an applicable statute, or its determination whether to provide an oral hearing.
§ 512.12
Collection in installments.
(a) Whenever feasible, and except as required otherwise by law, debts owed to the United States, together with interest, penalties, and administrative costs as required by this regulation, should be collected in one lump sum. This is true whether the debt is being collected under administrative offset or by another method, including voluntary payment. However, if the debtor is financially unable to pay the indebtedness in one lump sum, payment may be accepted in regular installments. If Broadcasting Board of Governors agrees to accept payment in installments, it will obtain a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor that specifies all of the terms of the arrangement and which contains a provision accelerating the debt in the event the debtor defaults. The size and frequency of the payments should bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and ability to the debtor to pay. If possible the installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the Government's claim within 3 years.
(b) If the debtor owes more than one debt and designates how a voluntary installment plan is to be applied among those debts, the Board will follow that designation. If no such designation is made, the Board will apply payments to the various debts in accordance with the best interest of the United States as as determined by the facts and circumstances of each case, with particular attention to application statutes of limitation.
§ 512.13
Exploration of compromise.
Broadcasting Board of Governors may attempt to effect compromise in accordance with the standards set forth in part 103 of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR part 103).
§ 512.14
Suspending or terminating collection action.
The suspension or termination of collection action shall be made in accordance with the standards set forth in part 104 of the Federal Claims Collection Standard (4 CFR part 104).
§ 512.15
Referrals to the Department of Justice or the General Accounting Office.
Referrals to the Department of Justice or the General Accounting Office shall be made in accordance with the standards set forth in part 105 of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR part 105).
§ 512.16
Collection services.
(a) Broadcasting Board of Governors has authority to contract for collection services to recover delinquent debts in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(c) and 4 CFR 102.6.
(b) Contracts with collection agencies will provide that:
(1) The authority to resolve disputes, compromise claims, suspend or terminate collection action, and refer the matter to the Justice Department for litigation will be retained by Broadcasting Board of Governors;
(2) Contractors are subject to 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, to the extent specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(m) and to applicable Federal and State laws and regulations pertaining to debt collection practices, such as the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. 1692;
(3) The contractor is required to strictly account for all amounts collected;
(4) The contractor must agree that uncollectible accounts shall be returned with appropriate documentation to enable Broadcasting Board of Governors to determine whether to pursue collection through litigation or to terminate collection;
(5) The contractor must agree to provide any data in its files relating to paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of § 105.2 of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR part 105) upon returning the account to Broadcasting Board of Governors for subsequent referral to the Department of Justice for litigation.
(c) Broadcasting Board of Governors will not use a collection agency to collect a debt owed by a currently employed or retired Federal employee, if collection by salary or annuity offset is available.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
§ 512.17
Purpose.
This subpart provides the standards to be followed by Broadcasting Board of Governors in implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514 to recover a debt from the pay of an Board employee or former employee, and establishes the procedural guidelines to recover debts when the employee's creditor and paying agencies are not the same.
[52 FR 43897, Nov. 17, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 3050, Jan. 30, 1990]
§ 512.18
Scope.
(a)
Coverage.
This subpart applies to Executive agencies, military departments, an agency or court in the judicial branch, an agency of the legislative branch and other independent entities of the Federal Government as defined in 5 CFR 550.1103, under the heading “Agency”.
(b)
Applicability.
This subpart and 5 U.S.C. 5514 apply in recovering debts by offset without the employee's consent from the current pay of that employee. Debt collection procedures which are not specified in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and these regulations will be consistent with the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR parts 101-105).
(1) The procedures contained in this subpart do not apply to debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 as amended (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), or the tariff laws of the United States or to any case where collection of a debt is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705).
(2) This subpart does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver of a salary overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, or in any way questioning the amount or validity of a debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office in accordance with procedures prescribed by the General Accounting Officer, nor does it preclude an employee from requesting waiver when waiver is available under any statutory provision.
[52 FR 43897, Nov. 17, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 3051, Jan. 30, 1990]
§ 512.19
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Board
means the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
Creditor Agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed.
Debt
means an amount owed to the United States.
Disposable Pay
means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay or authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required to be withheld by law. The Board will exclude deductions described in 5 CFR 581.105 (b) through (f) to determine disposable pay subject to salary offset.
Employee
means a current employee of Broadcasting Board of Governors or of another Executive Agency.
Executive Agency
means:
(a) An Executive Agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States
Code, including the U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission;
(b) A military department as defined in section 102 of title 5, United States Code;
(c) An agency or court in the judicial branch, including a court as defined in section 610 of title 28, United States Code, the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation;
(d) An agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives; and
(e) Other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government.
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards jointly published by the Justice Department and the General Accounting Office at 4 CFR parts 101-105.
Paying agency
means the agency employing the individual and authorizing the payment of his or her current pay.
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deductions at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 710, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law.
[52 FR 43897, Nov. 17, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 3051, Jan. 30, 1990]
§ 512.20
Notification.
(a) Salary offset deductions shall not be made unless the Director, Financial Operations Division of Broadcasting Board of Governors, or such other official as may be named in the future by the Director of Broadcasting Board of Governors, provides to the employee a written notice, 30 calendar days prior to any deduction, stating at a minimum:
(1) The Board's determination that a debt is owed including the nature, origin, and amount of the debt;
(2) The Board's intent to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account;
(3) The amount, frequency and proposed beginning date and duration of the intended deductions;
(4) An explanation of the Board's policy concerning interest, penalties, and administrative costs;
(5) The employee's right to inspect and copy Government records pertaining to the debt;
(6) The opportunity to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment in lieu of offset per the requirements of 4 CFR 102.2(e).
(7) The employee's right to a hearing arranged by the Board and conducted by an administrative law judge or, alternatively, an official not under the control of the head of the Board;
(8) The method and time period for filing a petition for a hearing;
(9) That timely filing of the petition will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(10) That final decision on the hearing will be issued not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition for hearing unless the employee requests and the hearing officer grants a delay in the proceedings.
(11) That knowingly false, misleading, or frivolous statements, representations or evidence may subject the employee to:
(i) Disciplinary procedures under chapter 75 of title 5, United States Code or any other applicable statutes;
(ii) Penalties under the False Claims Act, sections 3729-3731 of title 31 U.S.C. or any other applicable statutes.
(iii) Criminal penalties under sections 286, 287, 1001, 1002 of title 18 United States Code or any other applicable statutes.
(12) Any other rights or remedies available to the employee, including representation by counsel or his respective bargaining unit, under the statutes or regulations governing the program for which collection is being made.
(13) That amounts paid on or deducted for the debts that are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee.
(b) Notifications under this section shall be hand delivered with a record
made of the delivery, or shall be mailed certified mail with return receipt requested.
(c) No notification hearing, written responses or final decisions under this regulation are required of Broadcasting Board of Governors for any adjustment to pay arising from an employee's election of coverage under a Federal benefit program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less.
§ 512.21
Hearing.
(a)
Petition for hearing.
(1) A hearing may be requested by filing a written petition with the Director, Financial Operations Division of Broadcasting Board of Governors, or such other official as may be named in the future by the Director of Broadcasting Board of Governors, stating why the employee believes the Board's determination of the existence or amount of the debt is in error.
(2) The petition must be signed by the employee and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence and witnesses which the employee believes support his or her position.
(3) The petition must be filed no later than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the notification under § 512.20(b) was hand delivered or the date of delivery by certified mail.
(4) Where petition is received after the 15 calendar day limit, Broadcasting Board of Governors will accept the petition if the employee can show that the delay was beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice.
(5) If the petition is not filed within the time limit, and is not accepted pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the employee's right to hearing will be considered waived, and salary offset will be implemented.
(b)
Type of hearing.
(1) The form and content of the hearing will be determined by the hearing official who shall be a person outside the control or authority of Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(2) The employee may represent him or herself, or may be represented by counsel.
(3) The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of the hearing.
(4) The hearing official will prepare a written decision which will state:
(i) The facts purported to evidence nature and origin of the alleged debt;
(ii) The hearing official's analysis, findings, and conclusions relative to:
(A) The employee's and/or the Board's grounds;
(B) The amount and the validity of the alleged debt;
(C) The repayment schedule, if applicable.
(5) The decision of the hearing official shall constitute the final administrative decision of the Board.
§ 512.22
Deduction from pay.
(a) Deduction by salary offset, from an employee's disposable current pay, shall be subject to the following circumstances:
(1) When funds are available, the Board will collect debts owed the United States in full in one lump-sum. If funds are not available or the debt exceeds 15% of disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, collection will normally be made in installments.
(2) The installments shall not exceed 15% of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to a larger amount.
(3) Deduction will commence with the next full pay interval following notice that deductions will commence.
(4) Installment deductions will not be made over a period greater than the anticipated period of employment.
[52 FR 43897, Nov. 17, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 3051, Jan. 30, 1990]
§ 512.23
Liquidation from final check or recovery from other payment.
(a) If an employee retires or resigns before collection of the debt is completed, offset of the entire remaining balance may be made from a final payment of any nature to such extent as is necessary to liquidate the debt.
(b) Where debt cannot be liquidated by offset from final payment, offset may be made from later payments of any kind due from the United States inclusive of Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 8347 and 5 CFR 831.1801
et seq
of this regulation.
[52 FR 43897, Nov. 17, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 3051, Jan. 30, 1990]
§ 512.24
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
An employee's voluntary payment of all or part of a debt being collected under 5 U.S.C. 5514 shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights which the employee may have under 5 U.S.C., or any other provision of contract or law, unless statutory or contractual provisions provide to the contrary.
§ 512.25
Refunds.
(a) Refunds shall be promptly made when:
(1) A debt is waived or otherwise found not to be owed to the United States; or
(2) The employee's paying agency is directed by an administrative or judicial order to refund amounts deducted from his or her current pay.
(b) Refunds do not bear interest unless required or permitted by law or contract.
§ 512.26
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
The assessment of interest, penalties and administrative costs shall be in accordance with subpart D of this regulation.
§ 512.27
Recovery when paying agency is not creditor agency.
(a)
Format for request for recovery.
(1) Upon completion of the procedures prescribed under 5 CFR 550.1104 and its own regulations, the creditor agency shall certify the debt in writing to the paying agency.
(2) The creditor agency shall certify in writing that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt; the date on which payment is due, the date the Government's right to collect first accrued, and that the creditor agency's regulations implementing section 5514 have been approved by OPM.
(3) If collection must be made in installments, the creditor agency must advise the paying agency of the number of installments to be collected, the amount of each installment, and the commencing date of the first installment.
(b)
Submitting the request for recovery
—(1)
Current employees.
The creditor agency shall submit the debt claim, agreement, or other instruction on the payment schedule to the employee's paying agency.
(2)
Separated employees
—(i)
Employees who are in the process of separating.
If the employee is in the process of separating, the creditor agency will submit its debt claim to the employee's paying agency for collection as provided in §§ 512.22 and 512.23. The paying agency shall certify the total amount of its collection and notify the creditor agency and the employee as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section. Where the paying agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, it will send a copy of the certified debt claim to the agency responsible for making such payments as notice that a debt is outstanding. It is the responsibility of the creditor agency for pursuing the claim.
(ii)
Employees who have already separated.
If the employee is already separated and all payments due from his or her former paying agency have been paid, the creditor agency may request that monies which are due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (5 CFR 831.1801) or other similar funds be administratively offset in order to collect the debt (31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS).
(iii)
Employees who transfer from one paying agency to another.
If an employee transfers to a position served by a different paying agency subsequent to the creditor agency's debt claim but before complete collection, the paying agency from which the employee separates shall certify the total of collection made on the debt. One copy of the certification will be supplied to the employee, and another to the creditor agency with notice of the employee's transfer. The original shall be inserted in the employees official personnel folder. The creditor agency shall submit a properly certified claim to the new paying agency before collection can be resumed. The paying agency will then resume collection from the employee's current pay account, and
notify the employee and the creditor agency of the resumption. The creditor agency will not need to repeat the due process procedure described by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR 550.1101
et seq.
” Upon settlement or repayment of the debt all records of the debt will be removed from official personnel records.
(c) Processing the debt claim upon receipt by the paying agency:
(1)
Incomplete claims.
If the paying agency receives an improperly completed debt certification, it shall return the request with a notice that procedures under 5 CFR 550.1101
et seq.
and the creditor agency's own regulations must be completed and a properly completed debt certification form received before action will be taken to effect collection.
(2)
Complete claim.
If the paying agency receives a properly completed debt form, deductions will begin prospectively at the next officially established pay interval. A copy of the debt form will be given to the debtor along with notice of the date deductions will commence.
(3) The paying agency is not required or authorized to review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt as stated in the debt claim.
[52 FR 43897, Nov. 17, 1987, as amended at 55 FR 3051, Jan. 30, 1990]

# Subpart D—Interest, Penalties, and Administrative Costs
§ 512.28
Assessment.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, or § 512.29, Broadcasting Board of Governors shall assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts owed to the United States pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Before assessing these charges, Broadcasting Board of Governors will mail or hand deliver a written notice to the debtor. This notice will include a statement of the Board's requirements concerning §§ 512.9 and 512.21.
(b) Interest shall accrue from the date on which notice of the debt is first mailed or hand-delivered to the debtor, using the most current address available to the Board.
(c) The rate of interest assessed shall be the rate of the current value of funds to the United States Treasury (i.e., the Treasury Tax and Loan account rate), as prescribed and published by the Secretary of the Treasury in the
Federal Register
and the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual Bulletins annually or quarterly, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. The rate of interest as initially assessed shall remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. However, in cases where the debtor has defaulted on a repayment agreement and seeks a new agreement, Broadcasting Board of Governors may set a new rate which reflects the current value of funds to the Treasury at the time the agreement is executed. Interest will not be assessed on interest, penalties, or administrative costs required by this section.
(d) Broadcasting Board of Governors shall assess charges to cover administrative costs incurred as a result of a delinquent debt. Calculation of administrative costs shall be based upon actual costs incurred. Administrative costs include costs incurred to obtain credit reports in the case of employee debt or in using a private debt collector in the case of non-employee debt.
(e) Broadcasting Board of Governors shall assess a penalty charge not to exceed 6% per year on any portion of a debt that is delinquent for more than 90 days. This charge need not be calculated until the 91st day of delinquency, but shall accrue from the date that the debt became delinquent.
(f) When a debt is paid in partial or installment payments, amounts received shall be applied first to the outstanding penalty and administrative cost charges, second to accrued interest and third to outstanding principal.
(g) Broadcasting Board of Governors will waive the collection of interest on the debt or any portion of the debt that is paid within 30 days after the date on which interest began to accrue. Broadcasting Board of Governors may extend this 30-day period, on a case-by-case basis, if it reasonably determines such action is appropriate. Broadcasting Board of Governors may also waive in whole or in part the collection of interest, penalties, and administrative costs
assessed under this section per the criteria specified in part 103 of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR part 103) relating to the compromise of claims or if the Board determines that collection of these charges is not in the best interest of the United States. Waiver under the first sentence of this paragraph is mandatory. Under the second and third sentences, it may be exercised under the following circumstances:
(1) Waiver of interest pending consideration of a request for reconsideration, administrative review, or waiver of the underlying debt under a permissive statute, and
(2) Waiver of interest where Broadcasting Board of Governors has accepted an installment plan under § 512.12, there is no indication of fault or lack of good faith on the part of the debtor and the amount of the interest is large enough, in relation to the size of the installments that the debtor can reasonably afford to pay, that the debt will never be repaid.
(h) Where a mandatory waiver or review statute applies, interest and related charges may not be assessed for those periods during which collection must be suspended under § 104.2(c)(1) of the Federal Claims Collection Standards (4 CFR part 104).
§ 512.29
Exemptions.
(a) The provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3717 do not apply—
(1) To debts owned by any State or local government;
(2) To debt arising under contracts which were executed prior to, and were in effect on October 25, 1982;
(3) To debts where an applicable statute, loan agreement, or contract either prohibits such charges or explicitly fixes the charges that apply to the debts arising under the Social Security Act, the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or the tariff laws of the United States.
(b) However Broadcasting Board of Governors is authorized to assess interest and related charges on debts which are not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717 to the extent authorized under the common law or other applicable statutory authority.
Pt. 513

# PART 513—GOVERNMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION (NONPROCUREMENT) AND GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (GRANTS)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
513.100
Purpose.
513.105
Definitions.
513.110
Coverage.
513.115
Policy.

# Subpart B—Effect of Action
513.200
Debarment or suspension.
513.205
Ineligible persons.
513.210
Voluntary exclusion.
513.215
Exception provision.
513.220
Continuation of covered transactions.
513.225
Failure to adhere to restrictions.

# Subpart C—Debarment
513.300
General.
513.305
Causes for debarment.
513.310
Procedures.
513.311
Investigation and referral.
513.312
Notice of proposed debarment.
513.313
Opportunity to contest proposed debarment.
513.314
Debarring official's decision.
513.315
Settlement and voluntary exclusion.
513.320
Period of debarment.
513.325
Scope of debarment.

# Subpart D—Suspension
513.400
General.
513.405
Causes for suspension.
513.410
Procedures.
513.411
Notice of suspension.
513.412
Opportunity to contest suspension.
513.413
Suspending official's decision.
513.415
Period of suspension.
513.420
Scope of suspension.

# Subpart E—Responsibilities of GSA, Board and Participants
513.500
GSA responsibilities.
513.505
Broadcasting Board of Governors responsibilities.
513.510
Participants' responsibilities.

# Subpart F—Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants)
513.600
Purpose.
513.605
Definitions.
513.610
Coverage.
513.615
Grounds for suspension of payments, suspension or termination of grants, or suspension or debarment.
513.620
Effect of violation.
513.625
Exception provision.
513.630
Certification requirements and procedures.
513.635
Reporting of and employee sanctions for convictions of criminal drug offenses.
Appendix A to Part 513—Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions
Appendix B to Part 513—Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions
Appendix C to Part 513—Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements

# Authority:
40 U.S.C. 486 (c); 41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.;
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E. O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 comp., p. 235.

# Source:
53 FR 19179, 19204, May 26, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 55 FR 21679, May 25, 1990, and 60 FR 33036, June 26, 1995.

# Subpart A—General
§ 513.100
Purpose.
(a) Executive Order (E.O.) 12549 provides that, to the extent permitted by law, Executive departments and agencies shall participate in a governmentwide system for nonprocurement debarment and suspension. A person who is debarred or suspended shall be excluded from Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance and benefits under Federal programs and activities. Debarment or suspension of a participant in a program by one agency shall have governmentwide effect.
(b) These regulations implement section 3 of E.O. 12549 and the guidelines promulgated by the Office of Management and Budget under section 6 of the E.O. by:
(1) Prescribing the programs and activities that are covered by the governmentwide system;
(2) Prescribing the governmentwide criteria and governmentwide minimum due process procedures that each agency shall use;
(3) Providing for the listing of debarred and suspended participants, participants declared ineligible (see definition of “ineligible” in § 513.105), and participants who have voluntarily excluded themselves from participation in covered transactions;
(4) Setting forth the consequences of a debarment, suspension, determination of ineligibility, or voluntary exclusion; and
(5) Offering such other guidance as necessary for the effective implementation and administration of the governmentwide system.
(c) These regulations also implement Executive Order 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Public Law 103-355, sec. 2455, 108 Stat. 3327) by—
(1) Providing for the inclusion in the
List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs
all persons proposed for debarment, debarred or suspended under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 CFR Part 9, subpart 9.4; persons against which governmentwide exclusions have been entered under this part; and persons determined to be ineligible; and
(2) Setting forth the consequences of a debarment, suspension, determination of ineligibility, or voluntary exclusion.
(d) Although these regulations cover the listing of ineligible participants and the effect of such listing, they do not prescribe policies and procedures governing declarations of ineligibility.
[60 FR 33040, 33045, June 26, 1995]
§ 513.105
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this part:
Adequate evidence.
Information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.
Affiliate.
Persons are affiliates of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other,
or
, a third person controls or has the power to control both. Indicia of control include, but are not limited to: interlocking management or ownership, identity of interests among family members, shared facilities and equipment, common use of
employees, or a business entity organized following the suspension or debarment of a person which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded person.
Agency.
Any executive department, military department or defense agency or other agency of the executive branch, excluding the independent regulatory agencies.
Civil judgment.
The disposition of a civil action by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered by verdict, decision, settlement, stipulation, or otherwise creating a civil liability for the wrongful acts complained of; or a final determination of liability under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1988 (31 U.S.C. 3801-12).
Conviction.
A judgment or conviction of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or a plea, including a plea of nolo contendere.
Debarment.
An action taken by a debarring official in accordance with these regulations to exclude a person from participating in covered transactions. A person so excluded is “debarred.”
Debarring official.
An official authorized to impose debarment. The debarring official is either:
(1) The agency head, or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
Indictment.
Indictment for a criminal offense. An information or other filing by competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment.
Ineligible.
Excluded from participation in Federal nonprocurement programs pursuant to a determination of ineligibility under statutory, executive order, or regulatory authority, other than Executive Order 12549 and its agency implementing regulations; for exemple, excluded pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act and its implementing regulations, the equal employment opportunity acts and executive orders, or the environmental protection acts and executive orders. A person is ineligible where the determination of ineligibility affects such person's eligibility to participate in more than one covered transaction.
Legal proceedings.
Any criminal proceeding or any civil judicial proceeding to which the Federal Government or a State or local government or quasi-governmental authority is a party. The term includes appeals from such proceedings.
List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs.
A list compiled, maintained and distributed by the General Services Administration (GSA) containing the names and other information about persons who have been debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded under Executive Orders 12549 and 12689 and these regulations or 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, persons who have been proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, and those persons who have been determined to be ineligible.
Notice.
A written communication served in person or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or its equivalent, to the last known address of a party, its identified counsel, its agent for service of process, or any partner, officer, director, owner, or joint venturer of the party. Notice, if undeliverable, shall be considered to have been received by the addressee five days after being properly sent to the last address known by the Board.
Participant.
Any person who submits a proposal for, enters into, or reasonably may be expected to enter into a covered transaction. This term also includes any person who acts on behalf of or is authorized to commit a participant in a covered transaction as an agent or representative of another participant.
Person.
Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government or legal entity, however organized, except: foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, and entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities.
Preponderance of the evidence.
Proof by information that, compared with
that opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
Principal.
Officer, director, owner, partner, key employee, or other person within a participant with primary management or supervisory responsibilities; or a person who has a critical influence on or substantive control over a covered transaction, whether or not employed by the participant. Persons who have a critical influence on or substantive control over a covered transaction are:
(1) Principal investigators.
Proposal.
A solicited or unsolicited bid, application, request, invitation to consider or similar communication by or on behalf of a person seeking to participate or to receive a benefit, directly or indirectly, in or under a covered transaction.
Respondent.
A person against whom a debarment or suspension action has been initiated.
State.
Any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency of a State, exclusive of institutions of higher education, hospitals, and units of local government. A State instrumentality will be considered part of the State government if it has a written determination from a State government that such State considers that instrumentality to be an agency of the State government.
Suspending official.
An official authorized to impose suspension. The suspending official is either:
(1) The agency head, or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
Suspension.
An action taken by a suspending official in accordance with these regulations that immediately excludes a person from participating in covered transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and such legal, debarment, or Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act proceedings as may ensue. A person so excluded is “suspended.”
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.
A status of nonparticipation or limited participation in covered transactions assumed by a person pursuant to the terms of a settlement.
Broadcasting Board of Governors.
[53 FR 19204, 19179, May 26, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33041, 33045, June 26, 1995]
§ 513.110
Coverage.
(a) These regulations apply to all persons who have participated, are currently participating or may reasonably be expected to participate in transactions under Federal nonprocurement programs. For purposes of these regulations such transactions will be referred to as “covered transactions.”
(1)
Covered transaction.
For purposes of these regulations, a covered transaction is a primary covered transaction or a lower tier covered transaction. Covered transactions at any tier need not involve the transfer of Federal funds.
(i)
Primary covered transaction.
Except as noted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a primary covered transaction is any nonprocurement transaction between an agency and a person, regardless of type, including: grants, cooperative agreements, scholarships, fellowships, contracts of assistance, loans, loan guarantees, subsidies, insurance, payments for specified use, donation agreements and any other nonprocurement transactions between a Federal agency and a person. Primary covered transactions also include those transactions specially designated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in such agency's regulations governing debarment and suspension.
(ii)
Lower tier covered transaction.
A lower tier covered transaction is:
(A) Any transaction between a participant and a person other than a procurement contract for goods or services, regardless of type, under a primary covered transaction.
(B) Any procurement contract for goods or services between a participant and a person, regardless of type, expected to equal or exceed the Federal procurement small purchase threshold fixed at 10 U.S.C. 2304(g) and 41 U.S.C. 253(g) (currently $25,000) under a primary covered transaction.
(C) Any procurement contract for goods or services between a participant
and a person under a covered transaction, regardless of amount, under which that person will have a critical influence on or substantive control over that covered transaction. Such persons are:
(
1
) Principal investigators.
(
2
) Providers of federally-required audit services.
(2)
Exceptions.
The following transactions are not covered:
(i) Statutory entitlements or mandatory awards (but not subtier awards thereunder which are not themselves mandatory), including deposited funds insured by the Federal Government;
(ii) Direct awards to foreign governments or public international organizations, or transactions with foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities;
(iii) Benefits to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted);
(iv) Federal employment;
(v) Transactions pursuant to national or agency-recognized emergencies or disasters;
(vi) Incidental benefits derived from ordinary governmental operations; and
(vii) Other transactions where the application of these regulations would be prohibited by law.
(b)
Relationship to other sections.
This section describes the types of transactions to which a debarment or suspension under the regulations will apply. Subpart B, “Effect of Action,” 513.200, “Debarment or suspension,” sets forth the consequences of a debarment or suspension. Those consequences would obtain only with respect to participants and principals in the covered transactions and activities described in 513.110(a). Sections 513.325, “Scope of debarment,” and 513.420, “Scope of suspension,” govern the extent to which a specific participant or organizational elements of a participant would be automatically included within a debarment or suspension action, and the conditions under which affiliates or persons associated with a participant may also be brought within the scope of the action.
(c)
Relationship to Federal procurement activities.
In accordance with E.O. 12689 and section 2455 of Public Law 103-355, any debarment, suspension, proposed debarment or other governmentwide exclusion initiated under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) on or after August 25, 1995 shall be recognized by and effective for Executive Branch agencies and participants as an exclusion under this regulation. Similarly, any debarment, suspension or other governmentwide exclusion initiated under this regulation on or after August 25, 1995 shall be recognized by and effective for those agencies as a debarment or suspension under the FAR.
[53 FR 19179, 19204, May 26, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 33041, 33045, June 26, 1995]
§ 513.115
Policy.
(a) In order to protect the public interest, it is the policy of the Federal Government to conduct business only with responsible persons. Debarment and suspension are discretionary actions that, taken in accordance with Executive Order 12549 and these regulations, are appropriate means to implement this policy.
(b) Debarment and suspension are serious actions which shall be used only in the public interest and for the Federal Government's protection and not for purposes of punishment. Agencies may impose debarment or suspension for the causes and in accordance with the procedures set forth in these regulations.
(c) When more than one agency has an interest in the proposed debarment or suspension of a person, consideration shall be given to designating one agency as the lead agency for making the decision. Agencies are encouraged to establish methods and procedures for coordinating their debarment or suspension actions.

# Subpart B—Effect of Action
§ 513.200
Debarment or suspension.
(a)
Primary covered transactions.
Except to the extent prohibited by law, persons who are debarred or suspended
shall be excluded from primary covered transactions as either participants or principals throughout the Executive Branch of the Federal Government for the period of their debarment, suspension, or the period they are proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4. Accordingly, no agency shall enter into primary covered transactions with such excluded persons during such period, except as permitted pursuant to § 513.215.
(b)
Lower tier covered transactions.
Except to the extent prohibited by law, persons who have been proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred or suspended shall be excluded from participating as either participants or principals in all lower tier covered transactions (see § 513.110(a)(1)(ii)) for the period of their exclusion.
(c)
Exceptions.
Debarment or suspension does not affect a person's eligibility for—
(1) Statutory entitlements or mandatory awards (but not subtier awards thereunder which are not themselves mandatory), including deposited funds insured by the Federal Government;
(2) Direct awards to foreign governments or public international organizations, or transactions with foreign governments or foreign governmental entities, public international organizations, foreign government owned (in whole or in part) or controlled entities, and entities consisting wholly or partially of foreign governments or foreign governmental entities;
(3) Benefits to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted);
(4) Federal employment;
(5) Transactions pursuant to national or agency-recognized emergencies or disasters;
(6) Incidental benefits derived from ordinary governmental operations; and
(7) Other transactions where the application of these regulations would be prohibited by law.
[60 FR 33041, 33045, June 26, 1995]
§ 513.205
Ineligible persons.
Persons who are ineligible, as defined in § 513.105(i), are excluded in accordance with the applicable statutory, executive order, or regulatory authority.
§ 513.210
Voluntary exclusion.
Persons who accept voluntary exclusions under § 513.315 are excluded in accordance with the terms of their settlements. Broadcasting Board of Governors shall, and participants may, contact the original action agency to ascertain the extent of the exclusion.
§ 513.215
Exception provision.
may grant an exception permitting a debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded person, or a person proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, to participate in a particular covered transaction upon a written determination by the agency head or an authorized designee stating the reason(s) for deviating from the Presidential policy established by Executive Order 12549 and § 513.200. However, in accordance with the President's stated intention in the Executive Order, exceptions shall be granted only infrequently. Exceptions shall be reported in accordance with § 513.505(a).
[60 FR 33041, 33045, June 26, 1995]
§ 513.220
Continuation of covered transactions.
(a) Notwithstanding the debarment, suspension, proposed debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, determination of ineligibility, or voluntary exclusion of any person by an agency, agencies and participants may continue covered transactions in existence at the time the person was debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded. A decision as to the type of termination action, if any, to be taken should be made only after thorough review to ensure the propriety of the proposed action.
(b) Agencies and participants shall not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any person who is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, ineligible or voluntary excluded, except as provided in § 513.215.
[60 FR 33041, 33045, June 26, 1995]
§ 513.225
Failure to adhere to restrictions.
(a) Except as permitted under § 513.215 or § 513.220, a participant shall not knowingly do business under a covered transaction with a person who is—
(1) Debarred or suspended;
(2) Proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; or
(3) Ineligible for or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction.
(b) Violation of the restriction under paragraph (a) of this section may result in disallowance of costs, annulment or termination of award, issuance of a stop work order, debarment or suspension, or other remedies as appropriate.
(c) A participant may rely upon the certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it and its principals are not debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction (See appendix B of these regulations), unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. An agency has the burden of proof that a participant did knowingly do business with a person that filed an erroneous certification.
[60 FR 33041, 33045, June 26, 1995]

# Subpart C—Debarment
§ 513.300
General.
The debarring official may debar a person for any of the causes in § 513.30, using procedures established in §§ 513.310 through 513.314. The existence of a cause for debarment, however, does not necessarily require that the person be debarred; the seriousness of the person's acts or omissions and any mitigating factors shall be considered in making any debarment decision.
§ 513.305
Causes for debarment.
Debarment may be imposed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 513.300 through 513.314 for:
(a) Conviction of or civil judgment for:
(1) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public or private agreement or transaction;
(2) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes, including those proscribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of customers between competitors, and bid rigging;
(3) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, receiving stolen property, making false claims, or obstruction of justice; or
(4) Commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects the present responsibility of a person.
(b) Violation of the terms of a public agreement or transaction so serious as to affect the integrity of an agency program, such as:
(1) A willful failure to perform in accordance with the terms of one or more public agreements or transactions;
(2) A history of failure to perform or of unsatisfactory performance of one or more public agreements or transactions; or
(3) A willful violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction.
(c) Any of the following causes:
(1) A nonprocurement debarment by any Federal agency taken before October 1, 1988, the effective date of these regulations, or a procurement debarment by any Federal agency taken pursuant to 48 CFR subpart 9.4;
(2) Knowingly doing business with a debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded person, in connection with a covered transaction, except as permitted in § 513.215 or § 513.220;
(3) Failure to pay a single substantial debt, or a number of outstanding debts (including disallowed costs and overpayments, but not including sums owed the Federal Government under the Internal Revenue Code) owed to any Federal agency or instrumentality, provided the debt is uncontested by the debtor or, if contested, provided that the debtor's legal and administrative remedies have been exhausted;
(4) Violation of a material provision of a voluntary exclusion agreement entered into under § 513.315 or of any settlement of a debarment or suspension action; or
(5) Violation of any requirement of subpart F of this part, relating to providing a drug-free workplace, as set forth in § 513.615 of this part.
(d) Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects the present responsibility of a person.
[53 FR 19179, 19204, May 26, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 4950, 4955, Jan. 31, 1989]
§ 513.310
Procedures.
Broadcasting Board of Governors shall process debarment actions as informally as practicable, consistent with the principles of fundamental fairness, using the procedures in §§ 513.311 through 513.314.
§ 513.311
Investigation and referral.
Information concerning the existence of a cause for debarment from any source shall be promptly reported, investigated, and referred, when appropriate, to the debarring official for consideration. After consideration, the debarring official may issue a notice of proposed debarment.
§ 513.312
Notice of proposed debarment.
A debarment proceeding shall be initiated by notice to the respondent advising:
(a) That debarment is being considered;
(b) Of the reasons for the proposed debarment in terms sufficient to put the respondent on notice of the conduct or transaction(s) upon which it is based;
(c) Of the cause(s) relied upon under § 513.305 for proposing debarment;
(d) Of the provisions of § 513.311 through § 513.314, and any other Broadcasting Board of Governors procedures, if applicable, governing debarment decisionmaking; and
(e) Of the potential effect of a debarment.
§ 513.313
Opportunity to contest proposed debarment.
(a)
Submission in opposition.
Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of proposed debarment, the respondent may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument in opposition to the proposed debarment.
(b)
Additional proceedings as to disputed material facts.
(1) In actions not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, if the debarring official finds that the respondent's submission in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment, respondent(s) shall be afforded an opportunity to appear with a representative, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any witness the agency presents.
(2) A transcribed record of any additional proceedings shall be made available at cost to the respondent, upon request, unless the respondent and the agency, by mutual agreement, waive the requirement for a transcript.
§ 513.314
Debarring official's decision.
(a)
No additional proceedings necessary.
In actions based upon a conviction or civil judgment, or in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts, the debarring official shall make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the respondent. The decision shall be made within 45 days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the respondent, unless the debarring official extends this period for good cause.
(b)
Additional proceedings necessary.
(1) In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary to determine disputed material facts, written findings of fact shall be prepared. The debarring official shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the respondent and any other information in the administrative record.
(2) The debarring official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The debarring official may reject any such findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary and capricious or clearly erroneous.
(3) The debarring official's decision shall be made after the conclusion of
the proceedings with respect to disputed facts.
(c)(1)
Standard of proof.
In any debarment action, the cause for debarment must be established by a preponderance of the evidence. Where the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the standard shall be deemed to have been met.
(2)
Burden of proof.
The burden of proof is on the agency proposing debarment.
(d)
Notice of debarring official's decision.
(1) If the debarring official decides to impose debarment, the respondent shall be given prompt notice:
(i) Referring to the notice of proposed debarment;
(ii) Specifying the reasons for debarment;
(iii) Stating the period of debarment, including effective dates; and
(iv) Advising that the debarment is effective for covered transactions throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government unless an agency head or an authorized designee makes the determination referred to in § 513.215.
(2) If the debarring official decides not to impose debarment, the respondent shall be given prompt notice of that decision. A decision not to impose debarment shall be without prejudice to a subsequent imposition of debarment by any other agency.
§ 513.315
Settlement and voluntary exclusion.
(a) When in the best interest of the Government, Broadcasting Board of Governors may, at any time, settle a debarment or suspension action.
(b) If a participant and the Board agree to a voluntary exclusion of the participant, such voluntary exclusion shall be entered on the Nonprocurement List (see subpart E).
§ 513.320
Period of debarment.
(a) Debarment shall be for a period commensurate with the seriousness of the cause(s). If a suspension precedes a debarment, the suspension period shall be considered in determining the debarment period.
(1) Debarment for causes other than those related to a violation of the requirements of subpart F of this part generally should not exceed three years. Where circumstances warrant, a longer period of debarment may be imposed.
(2) In the case of a debarment for a violation of the requirements of subpart F of this part (
see
513.305(c)(5)), the period of debarment shall not exceed five years.
(b) The debarring official may extend an existing debarment for an additional period, if that official determines that an extension is necessary to protect the public interest. However, a debarment may not be extended solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment action was based. If debarment for an additional period is determined to be necessary, the procedures of §§ 513.311 through 513.314 shall be followed to extend the debarment.
(c) The respondent may request the debarring official to reverse the debarment decision or to reduce the period or scope of debarment. Such a request shall be in writing and supported by documentation. The debarring official may grant such a request for reasons including, but not limited to:
(1) Newly discovered material evidence;
(2) Reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which the debarment was based;
(3) Bona fide change in ownership or management;
(4) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or
(5) Other reasons the debarring official deems appropriate.
[53 FR 19179, 19204, May 26, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 4950, 4955, Jan. 31, 1989]
§ 513.325
Scope of debarment.
(a)
Scope in general.
(1) Debarment of a person under these regulations constitutes debarment of all its divisions and other organizational elements from all covered transactions, unless the debarment decision is limited by its terms to one or more specifically identified individuals, divisions or other organizational elements or to specific types of transactions.
(2) The debarment action may include any affiliate of the participant that is specifically named and given notice of the proposed debarment and
an opportunity to respond (see §§ 513.311 through 513.314).
(b)
Imputing conduct.
For purposes of determining the scope of debarment, conduct may be imputed as follows:
(1)
Conduct imputed to participant.
The fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with a participant may be imputed to the participant when the conduct occurred in connection with the individual's performance of duties for or on behalf of the participant, or with the participant's knowledge, approval, or acquiescence. The participant's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence.
(2)
Conduct imputed to individuals associated with participant.
The fraudulent, criminal, or other seriously improper conduct of a participant may be imputed to any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with the participant who participated in, knew of, or had reason to know of the participant's conduct.
(3)
Conduct of one participant imputed to other participants in a joint venture.
The fraudulent, criminal, or other seriously improper conduct of one participant in a joint venture, grant pursuant to a joint application, or similar arrangement may be imputed to other participants if the conduct occurred for or on behalf of the joint venture, grant pursuant to a joint application, or similar arrangement may be imputed to other participants if the conduct occurred for or on behalf of the joint venture, grant pursuant to a joint application, or similar arrangement or with the knowledge, approval, or acquiescence of these participants. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct shall be evidence of such knowledge, approval, or acquiescence.

# Subpart D—Suspension
§ 513.400
General.
(a) The suspending official may suspend a person for any of the causes in § 513.405 using procedures established in §§ 513.410 through 513.413.
(b) Suspension is a serious action to be imposed only when:
(1) There exists adequate evidence of one or more of the causes set out in § 513.405, and
(2) Immediate action is necessary to protect the public interest.
(c) In assessing the adequacy of the evidence, the Board should consider how much information is available, how credible it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations are corroborated, and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as a result. This assessment should include an examination of basic documents such as grants, cooperative agreements, loan authorizations, and contracts.
§ 513.405
Causes for suspension.
(a) Suspension may be imposed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 513.400 through 513.413 upon adequate evidence:
(1) To suspect the commission of an offense listed in § 513.305(a); or
(2) That a cause for debarment under § 513.305 may exist.
(b) Indictment shall constitute adequate evidence for purposes of suspension actions.
§ 513.410
Procedures.
(a)
Investigation and referral.
Information concerning the existence of a cause for suspension from any source shall be promptly reported, investigated, and referred, when appropriate, to the suspending official for consideration. After consideration, the suspending official may issue a notice of suspension.
(b)
Decisionmaking process.
Broadcasting Board of Governors shall process suspension actions as informally as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness, using the procedures in § 513.411 through § 513.413.
§ 513.411
Notice of suspension.
When a respondent is suspended, notice shall immediately be given:
(a) That suspension has been imposed;
(b) That the suspension is based on an indictment, conviction, or other adequate evidence that the respondent has committed irregularities seriously
reflecting on the propriety of further Federal Government dealings with the respondent;
(c) Describing any such irregularities in terms sufficient to put the respondent on notice without disclosing the Federal Government's evidence;
(d) Of the cause(s) relied upon under § 513.405 for imposing suspension;
(e) That the suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or ensuing legal, debarment, or Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act proceedings;
(f) Of the provisions of § 513.411 through § 513.413 and any other Broadcasting Board of Governors procedures, if applicable, governing suspension decisionmaking; and
(g) Of the effect of the suspension.
§ 513.412
Opportunity to contest suspension.
(a)
Submission in opposition.
Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of suspension, the respondent may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument in opposition to the suspension.
(b)
Additional proceedings as to disputed material facts.
(1) If the suspending official finds that the respondent's submission in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension, respondent(s) shall be afforded an opportunity to appear with a representative, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any witness the Board presents, unless:
(i) The action is based on an indictment, conviction or civil judgment, or
(ii) A determination is made, on the basis of Department of Justice advice, that the substantial interests of the Federal Government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced.
(2) A transcribed record of any additional proceedings shall be prepared and made available at cost to the respondent, upon request, unless the respondent and the Board, by mutual agreement, waive the requirement for a transcript.
§ 513.413
Suspending official's decision.
The suspending official may modify or terminate the suspension (for example, see § 513.320(c) for reasons for reducing the period or scope of debarment) or may leave it in force. However, a decision to modify or terminate the suspension shall be without prejudice to the subsequent imposition of suspension by any other agency or debarment by any agency. The decision shall be rendered in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)
No additional proceedings necessary.
In actions: based on an indictment, conviction, or civil judgment; in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts; or in which additional proceedings to determine disputed material facts have been denied on the basis of Department of Justice advice, the suspending official shall make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the respondent. The decision shall be made within 45 days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the respondent, unless the suspending official extends this period for good cause.
(b)
Additional proceedings necessary.
(1) In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary to determine disputed material facts, written findings of fact shall be prepared. The suspending official shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the respondent and any other information in the administrative record.
(2) The suspending official may refer matters involving disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any such findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary or capricious or clearly erroneous.
(c)
Notice of suspending official's decision.
Prompt written notice of the suspending official's decision shall be sent to the respondent.
§ 513.415
Period of suspension.
(a) Suspension shall be for a temporary period pending the completion
of an investigation or ensuing legal, debarment, or Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act proceedings, unless terminated sooner by the suspending official or as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) If legal or administrative proceedings are not initiated within 12 months after the date of the suspension notice, the suspension shall be terminated unless an Assistant Attorney General or United States Attorney requests its extension in writing, in which case it may be extended for an additional six months. In no event may a suspension extend beyond 18 months, unless such proceedings have been initiated within that period.
(c) The suspending official shall notify the Department of Justice of an impending termination of a suspension, at least 30 days before the 12-month period expires, to give that Department an opportunity to request an extension.
§ 513.420
Scope of suspension.
The scope of a suspension is the same as the scope of a debarment (see § 513.325), except that the procedures of §§ 513.410 through 513.413 shall be used in imposing a suspension.

# Subpart E—Responsibilities of GSA, Board and Participants
§ 513.500
GSA responsibilities.
(a) In accordance with the OMB guidelines, GSA shall compile, maintain, and distribute a list of all persons who have been debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded by agencies under Executive Order 12549 and these regulations, and those who have been determined to be ineligible.
(b) At a minimum, this list shall indicate:
(1) The names and addresses of all debarred, suspended, ineligible, and voluntarily excluded persons, in alphabetical order, with cross-references when more than one name is involved in a single action;
(2) The type of action;
(3) The cause for the action;
(4) The scope of the action;
(5) Any termination date for each listing; and
(6) The agency and name and telephone number of the agency point of contact for the action.
§ 513.505
Broadcasting Board of Governors responsibilities.
(a) The Board shall provide GSA with current information concerning debarments, suspension, determinations of ineligibility, and voluntary exclusions it has taken. Until February 18, 1989, the Board shall also provide GSA and OMB with information concerning all transactions in which Broadcasting Board of Governors has granted exceptions under § 513.215 permitting participation by debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded persons.
(b) Unless an alternative schedule is agreed to by GSA, the Board shall advise GSA of the information set forth in § 513.500(b) and of the exceptions granted under § 513.215 within five working days after taking such actions.
(c) The Board shall direct inquiries concerning listed persons to the agency that took the action.
(d) Board officials shall check the Nonprocurement List before entering covered transactions to determine whether a participant in a primary transaction is debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded (Tel. #).
(e) Board officials shall check the Nonprocurement List before approving principals or lower tier participants where Board approval of the principal or lower tier participant is required under the terms of the transaction, to determine whether such principals or participants are debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded.
§ 513.510
Participants' responsibilities.
(a)
Certification by participants in primary covered transactions.
Each participant shall submit the certification in appendix A to this part for it and its principals at the time the participant submits its proposal in connection with a primary covered transaction, except that States need only complete such certification as to their principals. Participants may decide the method and frequency by which they determine the eligibility of their principals. In
addition, each participant may, but is not required to, check the Nonprocurement List for its principals (Tel. #). Adverse information on the certification will not necessarily result in denial of participation. However, the certification, and any additional information pertaining to the certification submitted by the participant, shall be considered in the administration of covered transactions.
(b)
Certification by participants in lower tier covered transactions.
(1) Each participant shall require participants in lower tier covered transactions to include the certification in appendix B to this part for it and its principals in any proposal submitted in connection with such lower tier covered transactions.
(2) A participant may rely upon the certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it and its principals are not debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction by any Federal agency, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. Participants may decide the method and frequency by which they determine the eligiblity of their principals. In addition, a participant may, but is not required to, check the Nonprocurement List for its principals and for participants (Tel. #).
(c)
Changed circumstances regarding certification.
A participant shall provide immediate written notice to Broadcasting Board of Governors if at any time the participant learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. Participants in lower tier covered transactions shall provide the same updated notice to the participant to which it submitted its proposals.

# Subpart F—Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants)

# Source:
55 FR 21688, 21694, May 25, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 513.600
Purpose.
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to carry out the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 by requiring that—
(1) A grantee, other than an individual, shall certify to the Board that it will provide a drug-free workplace;
(2) A grantee who is an individual shall certify to the Board that, as a condition of the grant, he or she will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity with the grant.
(b) Requirements implementing the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 for contractors with the Board are found at 48 CFR subparts 9.4, 23.5, and 52.2.
§ 513.605
Definitions.
(a) Except as amended in this section, the definitions of § 513.105 apply to this subpart.
(b) For purposes of this subpart—
(1)
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15;
(2)
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes;
(3)
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance;
(4)
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific grant at which employees of the grantee are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance;
(5)
Employee
means the employee of a grantee directly engaged in the performance of work under the grant, including:
(i) All
direct charge
employees;
(ii) All
indirect charge
employees, unless their impact or involvement is insignificant to the performance of the grant; and,
(iii) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the
grant and who are on the grantee's payroll.
This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the grantee (e.g., volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces);
(6)
Federal agency
or
agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency;
(7)
Grant
means an award of financial assistance, including a cooperative agreement, in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by a Federal agency directly to a grantee. The term grant includes block grant and entitlement grant programs, whether or not exempted from coverage under the grants management government-wide common rule on uniform administrative requirements for grants and cooperative agreements. The term does not include technical assistance that provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct appropriations; or any veterans' benefits to individuals, i.e., any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States;
(8)
Grantee
means a person who applies for or receives a grant directly from a Federal agency (except another Federal agency);
(9)
Individual
means a natural person;
(10)
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency of a State, exclusive of institutions of higher education, hospitals, and units of local government. A State instrumentality will be considered part of the State government if it has a written determination from a State government that such State considers the instrumentality to be an agency of the State government.
§ 513.610
Coverage.
(a) This subpart applies to any grantee of the Board.
(b) This subpart applies to any grant, except where application of this subpart would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government. A determination of such inconsistency may be made only by the Board head or his/her designee.
(c) The provisions of subparts A, B, C, D and E of this part apply to matters covered by this subpart, except where specifically modified by this subpart. In the event of any conflict between provisions of this subpart and other provisions of this part, the provisions of this subpart are deemed to control with respect to the implementation of drug-free workplace requirements concerning grants.
§ 513.615
Grounds for suspension of payments, suspension or termination of grants, or suspension or debarment.
A grantee shall be deemed in violation of the requirements of this subpart if the Board head or his or her official designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The grantee has made a false certification under § 513.630;
(b) With respect to a grantee other than an individual—
(1) The grantee has violated the certification by failing to carry out the requirements of paragraphs (A)(a)-(g) and/or (B) of the certification (Alternate I to appendix C) or
(2) Such a number of employees of the grantee have been convicted of violations of criminal drug statutes for violations occurring in the workplace as to indicate that the grantee has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
(c) With respect to a grantee who is an individual—
(1) The grantee has violated the certification by failing to carry out its requirements (Alternate II to appendix C); or
(2) The grantee is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any grant activity.
§ 513.620
Effect of violation.
(a) In the event of a violation of this subpart as provided in § 513.615, and in accordance with applicable law, the grantee shall be subject to one or more of the following actions:
(1) Suspension of payments under the grant;
(2) Suspension or termination of the grant; and
(3) Suspension or debarment of the grantee under the provisions of this part.
(b) Upon issuance of any final decision under this part requiring debarment of a grantee, the debarred grantee shall be ineligible for award of any grant from any Federal agency for a period specified in the decision, not to exceed five years (
see
§ 513.320(a)(2) of this part).
§ 513.625
Exception provision.
The Board head may waive with respect to a particular grant, in writing, a suspension of payments under a grant, suspension or termination of a grant, or suspension or debarment of a grantee if the Board head determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.
§ 513.630
Certification requirements and procedures.
(a)(1) As a prior condition of being awarded a grant, each grantee shall make the appropriate certification to the Federal agency providing the grant, as provided in appendix C to this part.
(2) Grantees are not required to make a certification in order to continue receiving funds under a grant awarded before March 18, 1989, or under a no-cost time extension of such a grant. However, the grantee shall make a one-time drug-free workplace certification for a non-automatic continuation of such a grant made on or after March 18, 1989.
(b) Except as provided in this section, all grantees shall make the required certification for each grant. For mandatory formula grants and entitlements that have no application process, grantees shall submit a one-time certification in order to continue receiving awards.
(c) A grantee that is a State may elect to make one certification in each Federal fiscal year. States that previously submitted an annual certification are not required to make a certification for Fiscal Year 1990 until June 30, 1990. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, this certification shall cover all grants to all State agencies from any Federal agency. The State shall retain the original of this statewide certification in its Governor's office and, prior to grant award, shall ensure that a copy is submitted individually with respect to each grant, unless the Federal agency has designated a central location for submission.
(d)(1) The Governor of a State may exclude certain State agencies from the statewide certification and authorize these agencies to submit their own certifications to Federal agencies. The statewide certification shall name any State agencies so excluded.
(2) A State agency to which the statewide certification does not apply, or a State agency in a State that does not have a statewide certification, may elect to make one certification in each Federal fiscal year. State agencies that previously submitted a State agency certification are not required to make a certification for Fiscal Year 1990 until June 30, 1990. The State agency shall retain the original of this State agency-wide certification in its central office and, prior to grant award, shall ensure that a copy is submitted individually with respect to each grant, unless the Federal agency designates a central location for submission.
(3) When the work of a grant is done by more than one State agency, the certification of the State agency directly receiving the grant shall be deemed to certify compliance for all workplaces, including those located in other State agencies.
(e)(1) For a grant of less than 30 days performance duration, grantees shall have this policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but
in any case by a date prior to the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(2) For a grant of 30 days or more performance duration, grantees shall have this policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(3) Where extraordinary circumstances warrant for a specific grant, the grant officer may determine a different date on which the policy statement and program shall be in place.
§ 513.635
Reporting of and employee sanctions for convictions of criminal drug offenses.
(a) When a grantee other than an individual is notified that an employee has been convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace, it shall take the following actions:
(1) Within 10 calendar days of receiving notice of the conviction, the grantee shall provide written notice, including the convicted employee's position title, to every grant officer, or other designee on whose grant activity the convicted employee was working, unless a Federal agency has designated a central point for the receipt of such notifications. Notification shall include the identification number(s) for each of the Federal agency's affected grants.
(2) Within 30 calendar days of receiving notice of the conviction, the grantee shall do the following with respect to the employee who was convicted.
(i) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; or
(ii) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
(b) A grantee who is an individual who is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring during the conduct of any grant activity shall report the conviction, in writing, within 10 calendar days, to his or her Federal agency grant officer, or other designee, unless the Federal agency has designated a central point for the receipt of such notices. Notification shall include the identification number(s) for each of the Federal agency's affected grants.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0991-0002)
Pt. 513, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 513—Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions

# Instructions for Certification
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective primary participant is providing the certification set out below.
2. The inability of a person to provide the certification required below will not necessarily result in denial of participation in this covered transaction. The prospective participant shall submit an explanation of why it cannot provide the certification set out below. The certification or explanation will be considered in connection with the department or Board's determination whether to enter into this transaction. However, failure of the prospective primary participant to furnish a certification or an explanation shall disqualify such person from participation in this transaction.
3. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when the department or Board determined to enter into this transaction. If it is later determined that the prospective primary participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or Board may terminate this transaction for cause or default.
4. The prospective primary participant shall provide immediate written notice to the department or Board to which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective primary participant learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.
5. The terms
covered transaction, debarred, suspended, ineligible, lower tier covered transaction, participant, person, primary covered transaction, principal, proposal, and voluntarily excluded
, as used in this clause, have the meanings set out in the Definitions and Coverage sections of the rules implementing Executive Order 12549. You may contact the department or Board to which this proposal is being submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of those regulations.
6. The prospective primary participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter
into any lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or Board entering into this transaction.
7. The prospective primary participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include the clause titled “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” provided by the department or Board entering into this covered transaction, without modification, in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions.
8. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. A participant may decide the method and frequency by which it determines the eligibility of its principals. Each participant may, but is not required to, check the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs.
9. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings.
10. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 6 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or Board may terminate this transaction for cause or default.

# Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions
(1) The prospective primary participant certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief, that it and its principals:
(a) Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded by any Federal department or Board;
(b) Have not within a three-year period preceding this proposal been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property;
(c) Are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (1)(b) of this certification; and
(d) Have not within a three-year period preceding this application/proposal had one or more public transactions (Federal, State or local) terminated for cause or default.
(2) Where the prospective primary participant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal.
[60 FR 33042, 33045, June 26, 1995]
Pt. 513, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 513—Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions

# Instructions for Certification
1. By signing and submitting this proposal, the prospective lower tier participant is providing the certification set out below.
2. The certification in this clause is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was entered into. If it is later determined that the prospective lower tier participant knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government the department or Board with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including suspension and/or debarment.
3. The prospective lower tier participant shall provide immediate written notice to the person to which this proposal is submitted if at any time the prospective lower tier participant learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or had become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.
4. The terms
covered transaction, debarred, suspended, ineligible, lower tier covered transaction, participant, person, primary covered transaction, principal, proposal,
and
voluntarily excluded,
as used in this clause, have the meaning set out in the Definitions and
Coverage sections of rules implementing Executive Order 12549. You may contact the person to which this proposal is submitted for assistance in obtaining a copy of those regulations.
5. The prospective lower tier participant agrees by submitting this proposal that, should the proposed covered transaction be entered into, it shall not knowingly enter into any lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this covered transaction, unless authorized by the department or Board with which this transaction originated.
6. The prospective lower tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include this clause titled “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transaction,” without modification, in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions.
7. A participant in a covered transaction may rely upon a certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it is not proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from covered transactions, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. A participant may decide the method and frequency by which it determines the eligibility of its principals. Each participant may, but is not required to, check the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs.
8. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render in good faith the certification required by this clause. The knowledge and information of a participant is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings.
9. Except for transactions authorized under paragraph 5 of these instructions, if a participant in a covered transaction knowingly enters into a lower tier covered transaction with a person who is proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, suspended, debarred, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction, in addition to other remedies available to the Federal Government, the department or Board with which this transaction originated may pursue available remedies, including suspension and/or debarment.

# Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility an Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions
(1) The prospective lower tier participant certifies, by submission of this proposal, that neither it nor its principals is presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction by any Federal department or agency.
(2) Where the prospective lower tier participant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this certification, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal.
[60 FR 33042, 33045, June 26, 1995]
Pt. 513, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 513—Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements

# Instructions for Certification
1. By signing and/or submitting this application or grant agreement, the grantee is providing the certification set out below.
2. The certification set out below is a material representation of fact upon which reliance is placed when the Board awards the grant. If it is later determined that the grantee knowingly rendered a false certification, or otherwise violates the requirements of the Drug-Free Workplace Act, the Board, in addition to any other remedies available to the Federal Government, may take action authorized under the Drug-Free Workplace Act.
3. For grantees other than individuals, Alternate I applies.
4. For grantees who are individuals, Alternate II applies.
5. Workplaces under grants, for grantees other than individuals, need not be identified on the certification. If known, they may be identified in the grant application. If the grantee does not identify the workplaces at the time of application, or upon award, if there is no application, the grantee must keep the identity of the workplace(s) on file in its office and make the information available for Federal inspection. Failure to identify all known workplaces constitutes a violation of the grantee's drug-free workplace requirements.
6. Workplace identifications must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the grant takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (e.g., all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
7. If the workplace identified to the Board changes during the performance of the grant, the grantee shall inform the Board of the
change(s), if it previously identified the workplaces in question (see paragraph five).
8. Definitions of terms in the Nonprocurement Suspension and Debarment common rule and Drug-Free Workplace common rule apply to this certification. Grantees' attention is called, in particular, to the following definitions from these rules:
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in Schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812) and as further defined by regulation (21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15);
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes;
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance;
Employee
means the employee of a grantee directly engaged in the performance of work under a grant, including: (i) All
direct charge
employees; (ii) All
indirect charge
employees unless their impact or involvement is insignificant to the performance of the grant; and, (iii) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the grant and who are on the grantee's payroll. This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the grantee (e.g., volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the grantee's payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces.

# Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements

# Alternate I. (Grantees Other Than Individuals)
A. The grantee certifies that it will or will continue to provide a drug-free workplace by:
(a) Publishing a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the grantee's workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such prohibition;
(b) Establishing an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(1) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(2) The grantee's policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(3) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(4) The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace;
(c) Making it a requirement that each employee to be engaged in the performance of the grant be given a copy of the statement required by paragraph (a);
(d) Notifying the employee in the statement required by paragraph (a) that, as a condition of employment under the grant, the employee will—
(1) Abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Notify the employer in writing of his or her conviction for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace no later than five calendar days after such conviction;
(e) Notifying the Board in writing, within ten calendar days after receiving notice under paragraph (d)(2) from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such conviction. Employers of convicted employees must provide notice, including position title, to every grant officer or other designee on whose grant activity the convicted employee was working, unless the Federal agency has designated a central point for the receipt of such notices. Notice shall include the identification number(s) of each affected grant;
(f) Taking one of the following actions, within 30 calendar days of receiving notice under paragraph (d)(2), with respect to any employee who is so convicted—
(1) Taking appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; or
(2) Requiring such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, State, or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency;
(g) Making a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug-free workplace through implementation of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f).
B. The grantee may insert in the space provided below the site(s) for the performance of work done in connection with the specific grant:
Place of Performance (Street address, city, county, state, zip code)
Check □ if there are workplaces on file that are not identified here.

# Alternate II. (Grantees Who Are Individuals)
(a) The grantee certifies that, as a condition of the grant, he or she will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity with the grant;
(b) If convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any grant activity, he or she will report the conviction, in writing, within 10 calendar days of the conviction, to every grant officer or other designee, unless the Federal agency designates a central point for the receipt of such notices. When notice is made to such a central point, it shall include the identification number(s) of each affected grant.
[55 FR 21690, 21694, May 25, 1990]
Pt. 519

# PART 519—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
519.100
Conditions on use of funds.
519.105
Definitions.
519.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
519.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
519.205
Professional and technical services.
519.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other than Own Employees
519.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
519.400
Penalties.
519.405
Penalty procedures.
519.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
519.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
519.600
Semi-annual compilation.
519.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 519—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 519—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
Sec. 319, Public Law 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); 41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6750, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Subpart A—General
§ 519.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative ageement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with
that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 519.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term
excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 519.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 519.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 519.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 519.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 519.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 519.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other than Own Employees
§ 519.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 519.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 519.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 519.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
§ 519.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 519.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 519.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 519.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 519.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that
may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 519, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 519—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 519, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 519—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC13OC91.003
EC13OC91.004
EC13OC91.005
Pt. 521

# PART 521—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
Sec.
521.1
Basis and purpose.
521.2
Definitions.
521.3
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
521.4
Investigation.
521.5
Review by the reviewing official.
521.6
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
521.7
Complaint.
521.8
Service of complaint.
521.9
Answer.
521.10
Default upon failure to file an answer.
521.11
Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.
521.12
Notice of hearing.
521.13
Parties to the hearing.
521.14
Separation of functions.
521.15
Ex Parte contacts.
521.16
Disqualifications of reviewing official or ALJ.
521.17
Rights of parties.
521.18
Authority of the ALJ.
521.19
Prehearing conferences.
521.20
Disclosure of documents.
521.21
Discovery.
521.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements and exhibits.
521.23
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
521.24
Protective order.
521.25
Fees.
521.26
Form, filing and service of papers.
521.27
Computation of time.
521.28
Motions.
521.29
Sanctions.
521.30
The hearing and burden of proof.
521.31
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
521.32
Location of hearing.
521.33
Witnesses.
521.34
Evidence.
521.35
The record.
521.36
Post-hearing briefs.
521.37
Initial decision.
521.38
Reconsideration of initial decision.
521.39
Appeal to the Broadcasting Board of Governors Director.
521.40
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
521.41
Stay pending appeal.
521.42
Judicial review.
521.43
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
521.44
Right to administrative offset.
521.45
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
521.46
Compromise or settlement.
521.47
Limitations.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 2658; 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812.

# Source:
56 FR 25028, June 3, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 521.1
Basis and purpose.
(a)
Basis.
This part implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, Public Law 99-509, sections 6101-6104, 100 Stat. 1874 (October 21, 1986), codified at 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812. The Act requires each authority head to promulgate regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the statute (31 U.S.C. 3809).
(b)
Purpose.
(1) This part establishes administrative procedures for imposing civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit, or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to the Broadcasting Board of Governors or to its agents, and
(2) Specifies the hearing and appeal rights of persons subject to allegations of liability for such penalties and assessments.
(c)
Special considerations abroad.
Where a party, witness or material evidence in a proceeding under these regulations is located abroad, the investigating official, reviewing official or ALJ, as the case may be, may adjust the provisions below for service, filing of documents, time limitations, and related matters to meet special problems arising out of that location.
§ 521.2
Definitions.
ALJ
means an Administrative Law Judge in the Broadcasting Board of Governors appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the Broadcasting Board of Governors pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.
Benefit
means, in the context of “statement,” anything of value, including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee.
Claim
means any request, demand, or submission—
(1) Made to the Broadcasting Board of Governors for property, services or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance or benefits);
(2) Made to a recipient of property, services or money from the Broadcasting Board of Governors, or to a party to a contract with the Broadcasting Board of Governors—
(i) For property or services if the United States—
(A) Provided such property or services;
(B) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or
(C) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or
(ii) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States—
(A) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or
(B) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or
(3) Made to the Broadcasting Board of Governors which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.
Complaint
means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 521.7.
Defendant
means any person alleged in a complaint under § 521.7 to be liable
for a civil penalty or assessment under § 521.3.
Director
means Director of the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
Government
means the United States Government.
Individual
means a natural person.
Initial decision
means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 521.10 or § 521.37, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.
Investigating Official
means the Inspector General for the Broadcasting Board of Governors or an officer or employee of the Office of Inspector General designated by the Inspector General and serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.
Knows or has reason to know
means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—
(1) Has the actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(2) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or
(3) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.
Makes
, wherever it appears, shall include the terms
presents, submits and causes to be made, presented, or submitted.
As the context requires,
making
or
made
shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization and includes the plural of that term.
Representative
means an attorney who is a member in good standing of the bar of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Reviewing official
means the General Counsel of the Broadcasting Board of Governors or his designee who is:
BBG
means the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(1) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official;
(2) Not employed in the organizational unit of the Broadcasting Board of Governors in which the investigating official is employed; and
(3) Is serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.
Statement
means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—
(1) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or
(2) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for)—
(i) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or
(ii) A grant, loan, or benefit from, the Broadcasting Board of Governors, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States Government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit.
BBG means the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
§ 521.3
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
(a)
Claims.
(1) Any person who makes claim that the person knows or has reason to know—
(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(ii) Includes or is supported by any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that—
(A) Omits a material fact;
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and
(C) Is a statement in which the person making such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or
(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed; shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law,
to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each such claim.
(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
(3) A claim shall be considered made to the Broadcasting Board of Governors, a recipient, or party when such claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the Broadcasting Board of Governors or such recipient or party.
(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.
(5) If the Government has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim.
(b)
Statement.
(1) Any person who makes, a written statement that—
(i) The person knows or has reason to know—
(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such statement; and
(ii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each such statement.
(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.
(3) A statement shall be considered made to the Broadcasting Board of Governors when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(c) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
(d) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.
(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.
§ 521.4
Investigation.
(a) If an investigating official concludes that a subpoena pursuant to the authority conferred by 31 U.S.C. 3804(a) is warranted—
(1) The subpoena so issued shall notify the person to whom it is addressed of the authority under which the subpoena is issued, and shall identify the records or documents sought;
(2) The investigating official may designate a person to act on his or her behalf to receive the documents sought; and
(3) The person receiving such subpoena shall be required to tender to the investigating official or the person designated to receive the documents a certification that the documents sought have been produced, or that such documents are not available and the reasons therefore, or that such documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified privilege.
(b) If the investigating official concludes that an action under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act may be warranted, the investigating official shall submit a report containing the findings and conclusions of such investigation to the reviewing official.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit an investigating official's discretion to refer allegations directly to the Department of Justice for
suit under the False Claims Act or other civil relief, or to defer or postpone a report or referral to the reviewing official to avoid interference with a criminal investigation or prosecution.
(d) Nothing in this section modifies any responsibility of an investigating official to report violations of criminal law to the Attorney General.
§ 521.5
Review by the reviewing official.
(a) If, based on the report of the investigating official under § 521.4(b), the reviewing official determines that there is adequate evidence to believe that a person is liable under § 521.3 of this part, the reviewing official shall transmit to the Attorney General a written notice of the reviewing official's intention to issue a complaint under § 521.7.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) A statement of the reviewing official's reasons for issuing a complaint;
(2) A statement specifying the evidence that supports the allegations of liability;
(3) A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based;
(4) An estimate of the amount of money or the value of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in violation of § 521.3 of this part;
(5) A statement of any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
(6) A statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments.
§ 521.6
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
(a) The reviewing official may issue a complaint under § 521.7 only if:
(1) The Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in a written statement described in 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1); and
(2) In the case of allegations of liability under § 521.3(a) with respect to a claim, the reviewing official determines that, with respect to such claim or a group of related claims submitted at the same time such claim is submitted (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested in violation of § 521.3(a) does not exceed $150,000.
(b) For the purposes of this section, a related group of claims submitted at the same time shall include only those claims arising from the same transaction (e.g., grant, loan, application, or contract) that are submitted simultaneously as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the reviewing official's authority to join in a single complaint against a person's claims that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money, or the value of property or services, demanded or requested.
§ 521.7
Complaint.
(a) On or after the date the Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), the reviewing official may serve a complaint on the defendant, as provided in § 521.8.
(b) The complaint shall state:
(1) Allegations of liability against the defendant including the statutory basis for liability, an identification of the claims or statements that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons why liability allegedly arises from such claims or statements;
(2) The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which the defendant may be held liable;
(3) Instructions for filing an answer to request a hearing, including a specific statement of the defendant's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to be represented by a representative; and
(4) That failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in the imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessment without right to appeal, as provided in § 521.10.
(c) At the same time the reviewing official serves the complaint, he or she shall serve the defendant with a copy of these regulations.
§ 521.8
Service of complaint.
(a) Service of a complaint must be made by certified or registered mail or by delivery in any manner authorized by rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Service is complete upon receipt.
(b) Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service, may be made by:
(1) Affidavit of the individual serving the complaint by delivery;
(2) A United States Postal Service return receipt card acknowledging receipt; or
(3) Written acknowledgment of receipt by the defendant or the defendant's representative.
(4) In case of service abroad authenticated in accordance with the Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extra Judicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters.
§ 521.9
Answer.
(a) The defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer with the reviewing official within 30 days of service of the complaint. An answer shall be deemed to be a request for a hearing.
(b) In the answer, the defendant:
(1) Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint;
(2) Shall state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
(3) May state any reasons why the defendant contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the statutory maximum; and
(4) Shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized by the defendant to act as defendant's representative, if any.
(c) If the defendant is unable to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within the time provided, the defendant may, before the expiration of 30 days from service of the complaint, file with the reviewing official a general answer denying liability and requesting a hearing, and a request for an extension of time within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The reviewing official shall file promptly with the ALJ the complaint, the general answer denying liability, and the request for an extension of time as provided in § 521.11. For good cause shown, the ALJ may grant the defendant up to 30 additional days within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 521.10
Default upon failure to file an answer.
(a) If the defendant does not file an answer within the time prescribed in § 521.9(a), the reviewing official may refer the complaint to the ALJ.
(b) Upon the referral of the complaint, the ALJ shall promptly serve on defendant in the manner prescribed in § 521.8, a notice that an initial decision will be issued under this section.
(c) If the defendant fails to answer, the ALJ shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true, and, if such facts establish liability under § 521.3, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer, the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (c) of this section, and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
(e) If, before such an initial decision becomes final, the defendant files a motion with the ALJ seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the defendant from filing an answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending the ALJ's decision on the motion.
(f) If, on such motion, the defendant can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ shall withdraw the initial decision in paragraph (c) of this section, if such a decision has been issued, and shall grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
(g) A decision of the ALJ denying defendant's motion under paragraph (e) of this section is not subject to reconsideration under § 521.38.
(h) The defendant may appeal to the Director the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal with the Director within 15 days after the ALJ denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the initial decision until the Director decides the issue.
(i) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the Director, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Director.
(j) The Director shall decide expeditiously whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer based solely on the record before the ALJ.
(k) If the Director decides that extraordinary circumstances excused the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the Director shall remand the case to the ALJ with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to answer.
(l) If the Director decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the Director shall reinstate the initial decision of the ALJ, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the Director issues such decision.
§ 521.11
Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.
Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the ALJ.
§ 521.12
Notice of hearing.
(a) When the ALJ receives the complaint and answer, the ALJ shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant in the manner prescribed by § 521.8. At the same time, the ALJ shall send a copy of such notice to the representative for the Government.
(b) Such notice shall include:
(1) The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The matters of fact and law to be asserted;
(4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the Government and of the defendant, if any; and
(6) Such other matters as the ALJ deems appropriate.
§ 521.13
Parties to the hearing.
(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
(b) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff under the False Claims Act may participate in these proceedings to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act.
§ 521.14
Separation of functions.
(a) The investigating official, the reviewing official, and any employee or agent of the Broadcasting Board of Governors who takes part in investigating, preparing, or presenting a particular case may not, in such case or a factually related case:
(1) Participate in the hearing as the ALJ;
(2) Participate or advise in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the Director, except as a witness or representative in public proceedings; or
(3) Make the collection of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(b) The ALJ shall not be responsible to, or subject to, the supervision or direction of the investigating official or the reviewing official.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the representative for the Government may be employed anywhere in the Broadcasting Board of Governors, including in the offices of either the investigating official or the reviewing official.
§ 521.15
Ex Parte contacts.
No party or person (except employees of the ALJ's office) shall communicate in any way with the ALJ on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
§ 521.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
(a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
(b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or ALJ. Such motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.
(c) Such motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections shall be deemed waived.
(d) Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.
(e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the ALJ shall proceed no further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)(1) If the ALJ determines that the reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another ALJ.
(3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the Director may determine the matter only as part of his or her review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
§ 521.17
Rights of parties.
Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may:
(a) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by a representative;
(b) Participate in any conference held by the ALJ;
(c) Conduct discovery;
(d) Agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(e) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(f) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(g) Present oral arguments at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and
(h) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.
§ 521.18
Authority of the ALJ.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The ALJ may:
(1) Set and change the date, time and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas to be served within the United States requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at depositions or at hearings. Subpoenas to be served outside the jurisdiction of the United States shall state on their face the authority therefore;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and time of discovery;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(13) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
(14) Exercise such other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the ALJ under this part.
(c) The ALJ does not have the authority to find treaties and other international agreements or Federal Statutes or regulations invalid.
§ 521.19
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The ALJ may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
(b) Upon the motion of any party, the ALJ shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
(c) The ALJ may use prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations and admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objection of other parties) and written argument;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery;
(9) The time and place for the hearing; and
(10) Such other matters as may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
(d) The ALJ shall issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the ALJ at a prehearing conference.
§ 521.20
Disclosure of documents.
(a) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of the investigating official under § 521.4(b) are based, unless such documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. Upon payment of fees for duplication, the defendant may obtain copies of such documents.
(b) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant also may obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint, even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed.
(c) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official as described in § 521.5 is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(d) The defendant may file a motion to compel disclosure of the doucment subject to the provisions of this section. Such a motion may only be filed with the ALJ following the filing of an answer pursuant to § 521.9.
§ 521.21
Discovery.
(a) The following types of discovery are authorized:
(1) Requests for production of documents for inspection and copying;
(2) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or the truth of any relevant fact;
(3) Written interrogatories; and
(4) Depositions.
(b) For the purpose of this section and § 521.22 and § 521.23, the term “documents” includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document.
(c) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ shall regulate the timing of discovery.
(d)
Motions for discovery.
(1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the ALJ. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition.
(2) Within ten days of service a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided § 521.24.
(3) The ALJ may grant a motion for discovery only if the ALJ finds that the discovery sought:
(i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues;
(ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;
(iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and
(iv) Does not seek privileged information.
(4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.
(5) The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 521.24.
(e)
Deposition.
(1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held.
(2) The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in § 521.8.
(3) The deponent may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order within ten days of service.
(4) The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition which it shall make available to all other parties for inspection and copying.
(f) Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery.
§ 521.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements and exhibits.
(a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the ALJ, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with § 521.33(b). At the time the above documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the ALJ, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
(b) If a party objects, the ALJ shall not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above, unless the ALJ finds good cause for the failure or that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless another party objects within the time set by the ALJ, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
§ 521.23
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in § 521.8. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.
(f) A party or individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within ten days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten days after service.
§ 521.24
Protective order.
(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or, with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person
from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the ALJ;
(6) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
(7) That a deposition after being sealed be opened only by order of the ALJ;
(8) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation, proceeding or other administrative investigation not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; or
(9) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the ALJ.
§ 521.25
Fees.
The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fee and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in the United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.
§ 521.26
Form, filing and service of papers.
(a)
Form.
(1) Documents filed with the ALJ shall include an original and two copies.
(2) Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the ALJ, and a designation of the paper (e.g., motion to quash subpoena), and shall be in English or accompanied by an English translation.
(3) Every pleading and paper shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of, the party or the person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or his or her representative.
(4) Papers are considered filed when they are mailed. Date of mailing may be established by a certificate from the party or its representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.
(b)
Service.
A party filing a document with the ALJ shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than those required to be served as prescribed in § 521.8, shall be made by delivering a copy or by placing a copy of the document in the United States mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by a representative, service shall be made upon such representative in lieu of the actual party.
(c)
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.
§ 521.27
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued hereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which event it includes the next business day.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal Government shall be excluded from the computation.
(c) Where a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional five days will be added to the time permitted for any response.
§ 521.28
Motions.
(a) Any application to the ALJ for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the ALJ and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The ALJ may require that oral motions be reduced to writing.
(c) Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the ALJ, any party may file a response to such motion.
(d) The ALJ may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.
(e) The ALJ shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.
§ 521.29
Sanctions.
(a) The ALJ may sanction a person, including any party or representative for:
(1) Failing to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the ALJ may:
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;
(3) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d) If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the ALJ may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
(e) The ALJ may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief or other document which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 521.30
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 521.3, and if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
(b) The Broadcasting Board of Governors shall prove defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The defendant shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause shown.
§ 521.31
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
(a) In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the ALJ and the Director, upon appeal, should evaluate any circumstances that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose. Because of the intangible costs of fraud, the expense of investigating such conduct, and the need to deter others who might be similarly tempted, ordinarily double damages and a significant civil penalty should be imposed.
(b) Although not exhaustive, the following factors are among those that
may influence the ALJ and the Director in determining the amount of penalties and assessments to impose with respect to the misconduct (i.e., the false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements) charged in the complaint:
(1) The number of false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements;
(2) The time period over which such claims or statements were made;
(3) The degree of the defendant's culpability with respect to the misconduct;
(4) The amount of money or the value of the property, services, or benefit falsely claimed;
(5) The value of the Government's actual loss as a result of the misconduct, including foreseeable consequential damages and the costs of investigation;
(6) The relationship of the amount imposed as civil penalties to the amount of the Government's loss;
(7) The potential or actual impact of the misconduct upon national defense, public health or safety, or public confidence in the management of Government programs and operations, including particularly the impact on the intended beneficiaries of such programs;
(8) Whether the defendant has engaged in a pattern of the same or similar misconduct;
(9) Whether the defendant attempted to conceal the misconduct;
(10) The degree to which the defendant has involved others in the misconduct or in concealing it;
(11) Where the misconduct of employees of agents is imputed to the defendant, the extent to which the defendant's practices fostered or attempted to preclude such misconduct;
(12) Whether the defendant cooperated in or obstructed an investigation of the misconduct;
(13) Whether the defendant assisted in identifying and prosecuting other wrongdoers;
(14) The complexity of the program or transaction, and the degree of the defendant's sophistication with respect to it, including the extent of defendant's prior participation in the program or in similar transactions;
(15) Whether the defendant has been found, in any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, to have engaged in similar misconduct or to have dealt dishonestly with the Government of the United States or of a State, directly or indirectly; and
(16) The need to deter the defendant and others from engaging in the same or similar misconduct.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ALJ or the Director from considering any other factors that in any given case may mitigate or aggravate the offense for which penalties and assessments are imposed.
§ 521.32
Location of hearing.
(a) The hearing may be held:
(1) In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;
(2) In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement in issue was made; or
(3) In such other place as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the ALJ.
(b) Each party shall have the opportunity to present arguments with respect to the location of the hearing.
(c) The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the ALJ.
§ 521.33
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. Any such written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in § 521.22(a).
(c) The ALJ shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to
(1) Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth,
(2) Avoid needless consumption of time, and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The ALJ shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(e) At the discretion of the ALJ, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination. To the extent permitted by the ALJ, cross-examination on matters outside the scope of direct examination shall be conducted in the manner of direct examination and may proceed by leading questions only if the witness is a hostile witness, an adverse party, or a witness identified with an adverse party.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the ALJ shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of:
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party appearing for the entity pro se or designated by the party's representative; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.
§ 521.34
Evidence.
(a) The ALJ shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided in this part, the ALJ shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the ALJ may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence, where appropriate (e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence).
(c) The ALJ shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by consideration of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.
(f) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(g) The ALJ shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 521.24.
§ 521.35
The record.
(a) The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the ALJ at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
(b) The transcript of testimony, exhibits and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the ALJ and the Director.
(c) The record of the hearing may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 521.24.
§ 521.36
Post-hearing briefs.
The ALJ may require the parties to file post-hearing briefs. In any event, any party may file a post-hearing brief. The ALJ shall fix the time for filing briefs, at a time not exceeding 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The ALJ may permit the parties to file reply briefs.
§ 521.37
Initial decision.
(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision based only on the record, which shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portion thereof, violate § 521.3;
(2) If the person is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments, considering any mitigating or aggravating factors that he or she finds in the case, such as those described in § 521.31.
(c) The ALJ shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired. The ALJ shall at the same time serve all parties with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the ALJ or a notice of appeal with the Director. If the ALJ fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(d) Unless the initial decision of the ALJ is timely appealed to the Director, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Director and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the ALJ.
§ 521.38
Reconsideration of initial decision.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be five days from the date of mailing in the absence of contrary proof.
(b) Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.
(c) Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the ALJ.
(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.
(e) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
(f) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Director and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the Director in accordance with § 521.39.
(g) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final decision of the Director and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the Director in accordance with § 521.39.
§ 521.39
Appeal to the Broadcasting Board of Governors Director.
(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the Broadcasting Board of Governors Director by filing a notice of appeal with the Broadcasting Board of Governors Director in accordance with this section.
(b)(1) No notice of appeal may be filed until the time period for filing a motion for reconsideration under § 521.38 has expired.
(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.
(3) If no motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal must be filed within 30 days after the ALJ issues the initial decision.
(4) The Director may extend the initial 30-day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the Director a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.
(c) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the Director, and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under § 521.38 has expired, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Director.
(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decisions and reasons supporting the exceptions.
(e) The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.
(f) There is no right to appear personally before the Director.
(g) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.
(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the Director shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the ALJ unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director that additional evidence not presented at such hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the Director shall remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of such additional evidence.
(j) The Director may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment determined by the ALJ in an initial decision.
(k) The Director shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of her/his decision and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable for a penalty or assessment to seek judicial review.
(l) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the Director serves the defendant with a copy of her/his decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under § 521.3 is final and is not subject to judicial review.
§ 521.40
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
If at any time the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the Director a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this part with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, the Director shall stay the process immediately. The Director may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.
§ 521.41
Stay pending appeal.
(a) An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the Director.
(b) No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the Director.
§ 521.42
Judicial review.
Section 3805 of title 31, United States Code, authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the Director imposing penalties or assessments under this part and specifies the procedures for such.
§ 521.43
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
Sections 3806 and 3808(b) of title 31, United States Code, authorize actions for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for such actions.
§ 521.44
Right to administrative offset.
The amount of any penalty or assessment which has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under § 521.42 or § 521.43, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under § 521.46, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under the subsection against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes, then or later owing by the United States to the defendant.
§ 521.45
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(g).
§ 521.46
Compromise or settlement.
(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.
(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any
time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision.
(c) The Director has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during pendency of any review under § 521.42 or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties and assessments under § 521.43.
(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under § 521.42 or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the Director, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the Director, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.
(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
§ 521.47
Limitations.
(a) The notice of hearing with respect to a claim or statement must be served in the manner specified in § 521.8 within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made.
(b) If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, service of a notice under § 521.10(b) shall be deemed notice of hearing for purposes of this section.
(c) The statute of limitations may be extended by agreement of the parties.
Pt. 530

# PART 530—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Sec.
530.101
Purpose.
530.102
Application.
530.103
Definitions.
530.104-530.109
[Reserved]
530.110
Self-evaluation.
530.111
Notice.
530.112-530.129
[Reserved]
530.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
530.131-530.139
[Reserved]
530.140
Employment.
530.141-530.148
[Reserved]
530.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
530.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
530.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
530.152-530.159
[Reserved]
530.160
Communications.
530.161-530.169
[Reserved]
530.170
Compliance procedures.
530.171-530.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
51 FR 22890, 22896, June 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 530.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 530.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the Board.
§ 530.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the Board. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes
the Board's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the Board of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alocoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the Board as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the Board as having such an impairment.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the Board that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the Board, a handicapped person who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or Board policy to receive education services from the Board.
(2) With respect to any other Board program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can acheive the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the Board can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 530.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation,
Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 530.104-530.109
[Reserved]
§ 530.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The Board shall, by August 24, 1987, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the Board shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The Board shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The Board shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 530.111
Notice.
The Board shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the Board, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the Board finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 530.112-530.129
[Reserved]
§ 530.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Board.
(b)(1) The Board, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The Board may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The Board may not, directly or through contractual or other
arrangments, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The Board may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Board; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The Board, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The Board may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the Board establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the Board are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The Board shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 530.131-530.139
[Reserved]
§ 530.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the Board. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 530.141-530.148
[Reserved]
§ 530.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 530.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the Board's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the Board.
§ 530.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The Board shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the Board to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the Board to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the Board to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where Board personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would
result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Board has the burden of proving that compliance with § 530.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Board head or his or her designee after considering all Board resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Board shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The Board may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The Board is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The Board, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the Board shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 530.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the Board shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to handicapped persons. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 530.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide handicapped persons into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The Board shall comply with the obligations established under this section by October 21, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by August 22, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the Board shall develop, by February 23, 1987, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The Board shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the Board's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 530.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the Board shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 530.152-530.159
[Reserved]
§ 530.160
Communications.
(a) The Board shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The Board shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the Board.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the Board shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The Board need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the Board communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf person (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The Board shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The Board shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the Board to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and adminstrative burdens. In those circumstances where Board personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the Board has the burden of proving that compliance with § 530.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Board head or his or her designee after considering all Board resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Board shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 530.161-530.169
[Reserved]
§ 530.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Board.
(b) The Board shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights, Broadcasting Board of Governors, 301 4th Street NW., Washington, DC 20547.
(d) The Board shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete
complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Board may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the Board receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The Board shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the Board shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the Board of the letter required by § 530.170(g). The Board may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the Board.
(j) The head of the Board shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the Board determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The Board may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 22890, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22890, June 23, 1986]
§§ 530.171-530.999
[Reserved]
PARTS 531-599 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. VII (4-1-25 Edition)
US International Development Finance Corporation

# CHAPTER VII—US INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION

# SUBCHAPTER A—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Part
Page
700-704
[Reserved]
705
Employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations
195
706
Information disclosure under the freedom of information act
195
707
Access to and safeguarding of personal information
208
708-709
[Reserved]
710
Administrative enforcement procedures of post-employment restrictions
215
711
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities
217
712
New restrictions on lobbying
223
713
Production of nonpublic records and testimony of employees in legal proceedings
235
714-799
[Reserved]

# SUBCHAPTER A—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
PARTS 700-704 [RESERVED]
Pt. 705

# PART 705—EMPLOYEE ETHICAL CONDUCT STANDARDS AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REGULATIONS

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301; Pub. L. 115-254, sections 1401-1470.
§ 705.101
Cross-reference to employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.
Employees of the US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) should refer to the executive branch-wide Standards of Ethical Conduct at 5 CFR part 2635, the DFC regulation at 5 CFR 4301.101 which supplements the executive branch-wide standards, and the executive branch-wide financial disclosure regulation at 5 CFR part 2634.
[58 FR 33320, June 17, 1993, as amended at 84 FR 37751, Aug. 2, 2019]
Pt. 706

# PART 706—INFORMATION DISCLOSURE UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
706.1
Description.
706.2
Policy.
706.3
Scope.
706.4
Preservation and transfer of records.
706.5
Other rights and services.

# Subpart B—Obtaining DFC Records
706.10
Publicly available records.
706.11
Requesting non-public records.

# Subpart C—Fees for Requests for Non-Public Records
706.20
In general.
706.21
Types of fees.
706.22
Requester categories.
706.23
Fees charged.
706.24
Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.

# Subpart D—Processing of Requests for Non-Public Records
706.30
Responsibility for responding to requests.
706.31
Timing of responses to requests.
706.32
Responses to requests.
706.33
Confidential commercial information.
706.34
Administrative appeals.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552, Pub. L. 114-185; Pub. L. 115-254, sections 1401-1470.

# Source:
82 FR 20434, May 2, 2017, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 706 appear at 84 FR 37751, Aug. 2, 2019.

# Subpart A—General
§ 706.1
Description.
This part contains the rules that the US International Development Finance Corporation (“DFC”) follows in processing requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”), 5 U.S.C. 552 as amended. These rules should be read together with the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget. Requests made by individuals for records about themselves under the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, are processed in accordance with DFC's Privacy Act regulations at 22 CFR part 707 as well as under this subpart.
§ 706.2
Policy.
It is DFC's policy to make its records available to the public to the greatest extent possible, in keeping with the spirit of the FOIA. This policy includes providing reasonably segregable information from records that also contain information that may be withheld under the FOIA. However, implementation of this policy also reflects DFC's view that the soundness and viability of many of its programs depend in large measure upon full and reliable commercial, financial, technical and business information received from applicants for DFC assistance and that the willingness of those applicants to provide such information depends on DFC's ability to hold it in confidence. Consequently, except as provided by
law and in this part, information provided to DFC in confidence will not be disclosed without the submitter's consent.
§ 706.3
Scope.
This part applies to all agency records in DFC's possession and control. This part does not compel DFC to create records or to ask outside parties to provide documents in order to satisfy a FOIA request. DFC may, however, in its discretion and in consultation with a FOIA requester, create a new record as a partial or complete response to a FOIA request. In responding to requests for information, DFC will ordinarily consider only those records within its possession and control as of the date of DFC's search. If any other date is used, DFC will inform the requester of that date. A record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), is not considered responsive to a request.
§ 706.4
Preservation and transfer of records.
(a)
Preservation of records.
DFC preserves all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this part, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the National Archives and Records Administration. Records that are identified as responsive to a request will not be disposed of or destroyed while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.
(b)
Transfer of records to the National Archives.
Under the Records Disposal Act, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 33, DFC is required to transfer legal custody and control of records with permanent historical value to the National Archives. DFC's Finance Project and Insurance Contract Case files generally do not qualify as records with permanent historical value. DFC will not transfer these files except when the National Archives determines that an individual project or case is especially significant or unique. If the National Archives receives a FOIA request for records that have been transferred it will respond to the request in accordance with its own FOIA regulations.
§ 706.5
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the FOIA.

# Subpart B—Obtaining DFC Records
§ 706.10
Publicly available records.
Records that the FOIA requires agencies to make available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through DFC's FOIA Web site at
www.dfc.gov.
Records identified as of interest to the public and appropriate for public disclosure are also available, along with an index. These include annual reports and financial statements, program handbooks, press releases, application forms, claims information, and annual FOIA reports. DFC will review and update its Web site of posted records on an ongoing basis. Persons seeking information are encouraged to visit DFC's Web site to see what information is already available before submitting a request; DFC's FOIA Office and FOIA Public Liaison are available to assist individuals in locating records.
[82 FR 20434, May 2, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019]
§ 706.11
Requesting non-public records.
(a)
General information
—(1)
How to submit.
To make a request for records a requester must submit a written request to DFC's FOIA Office either by mail to US International Development Finance Corporation, 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527 or electronic mail to
foia@dfc.gov.
The envelope or subject line should read “Freedom of Information Request” to ensure proper routing. The request is considered received by DFC upon actual receipt by DFC's FOIA Office.
(2)
Records about oneself.
A requester who is making a request for records about himself or herself must verify his or her identity by providing a notarized statement or a statement under
28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization, stating that the requester is the person he or she claims to be.
(3)
Records about a third party.
Where a request for records pertains to a third party, a requester may receive greater access by submitting a notarized authorization signed by that individual, a declaration by that individual made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, proof of guardianship, or proof that the individual is deceased (
e.g.,
a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). DFC may require a requester to supply additional information if necessary in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.
(b)
Description of records sought.
Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable DFC personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist DFC in identifying the requested records, such as the project name, contract number, date or date range, country, title, name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, or reference number. In general, requesters should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records sought. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact DFC's FOIA Office or FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records they seek and to receive assistance in describing the records. If a requester fails to reasonably describe the records sought, DFC will inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their request with the FOIA Office or FOIA Public Liaison. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, DFC's response to the request may be delayed.
(c)
Format.
Requests may state a preferred format for released records including electronic formats. The records will be provided in the preferred format if the record is readily reproducible in that format. If you do not state a preference, you will receive any released records in the format most convenient to DFC.
(d)
Requester information.
Requests must include the requester's name and contact information, such as phone number, email address, or mailing address, to assist DFC in communicating with them and providing the released records.
(e)
Fees.
You should state your willingness to pay fees under these regulations or, alternately, your willingness to pay up to a specified limit. If you believe that you qualify for a partial or total fee waiver under 706.24 you should request a waiver and provide justification as required by 706.24. If your request does not contain a statement of your willingness to pay fees or a request for a fee waiver, DFC will consider your request an agreement to pay up to $25.00 in fees.
[82 FR 20434, May 2, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019]

# Subpart C—Fees for Requests of Non-Public Records.
§ 706.20
In general.
DFC will charge for processing requests under the FOIA in accordance with the provisions of this section and with the OMB Guidelines. For purposes of assessing fees, the FOIA establishes three categories of requests: Commercial use requests, non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requests, and all other requests. DFC will inform requesters as to which category their request has been placed into. Different fees are assessed depending on the category. Requesters may seek a fee waiver. DFC will consider requests for fee waiver in accordance with the requirements in § 706.24. To resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, DFC may contact a requester for additional information. DFC will ensure that searches, review, and duplication are conducted in the most efficient and the least expensive manner. DFC ordinarily will collect all applicable fees before sending copies of records to a requester. Requesters must pay fees by check or money order made payable to the Treasury of the United States.
§ 706.21
Types of fees.
(a) Direct costs are those expenses that DFC expends in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial-use requests, reviewing) records in order to respond to a FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (
i.e.,
the basic rate of pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses such as the costs of space, and of heating or lighting a facility.
(b) Duplication is reproducing a copy of a record or of the information contained in it, necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Copies can take the form of paper, audiovisual materials, or electronic records, among others.
(c) Review is the examination of a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including the process of redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review time also includes time spent both obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure made by a confidential commercial information submitter under § 706.33(c) of this subpart, but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
(d) Search is the process of looking for and retrieving records or information responsive to a request. Search time includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records; and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
§ 706.22
Request categories.
(a) A Commercial Use request is a request that asks for information for a use or a purpose that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. DFC's decision to place a requester in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the requester's intended use of the information.
(b) An Educational Use request is one made on behalf of an educational institution, defined as any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this category must show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution. DFC may request verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research.
(1)
Example 1.
A request from a professor of geology at a university for records relating to soil erosion, written on letterhead of the Department of Geology, would be presumed to be from an educational institution.
(2)
Example 2.
A request from the same professor of geology seeking drug information from the Food and Drug Administration in furtherance of a murder mystery he is writing would not be presumed to be an institutional request, regardless of whether it was written on institutional stationery.
(3)
Example 3.
A student who makes a request in furtherance of their coursework or other school-sponsored activities and provides a copy of a course syllabus or other reasonable documentation to indicate the research purpose for the request, would qualify as part of this fee category.
(c) A Noncommercial Scientific Institution Use request is a request made on behalf of a noncommercial scientific institution, defined as an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. A requester in this category must show that the request is authorized by and is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are sought to further scientific research and not for a commercial use.
(d) A News Media Request is a request made by a representative of the
news media in that capacity. A representative of the news media is defined as any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate news and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public. A request for records that supports the news-dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity shall be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, DFC shall also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination.
(e) All other requests include any requests that do not qualify under one of the above categories.
§ 706.23
Fees charged.
(a)
Fees.
In responding to FOIA requests, DFC will charge the following fees unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted under § 706.24 of this subpart. Because the fee amounts provided below already account for the direct costs associated with a given fee type, DFC should not add any additional costs to charges calculated under this section.
(1)
Search.
(i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. Search fees will be charged to all other requests, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (b) of this section. Fees for time spent searching is properly charged even if no responsive records are located or if all responsive records are determined to be entirely exempt from disclosure.
(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fees will be as follows: Professional—$13.75; and administrative—$7.50.
(iii) Requesters will be charged the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new program to locate the requested records. Before incurring such costs, DFC will notify the requester and the requester must agree to pay.
(iv) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored at a Federal Records Center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), additional costs shall be charged in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
(2)
Duplication.
Duplication fees will be charged to all requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (b) of this section. DFC will honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where it is readily reproducible in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, DFC will provide one copy per request at a cost of $0.10 per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other electronic media, DFC will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents must be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester must also pay the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, DFC will charge the direct costs.
(3)
Review.
Review fees will be charged to requesters who make commercial use requests. Review fees will be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record,
i.e.,
the review conducted by DFC to determine whether an exemption applies to a particular record or portion of a record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal stage of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. However, if the appellate authority determines that a particular exemption no longer applies, any costs associated with the re-review of the
records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees. Review fees will be charged at the same rates as those charged for a search under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(b)
Restrictions on charging fees.
(1) No search fees will be charged for educational use requests, noncommercial scientific use requests, or news media requests as defined in Section 706.22.
(2) Fees charged when DFC exceeds time limits.
(i) When DFC fails to comply with the time limits in which to respond to a request, it may not charge search fees, or, in the instances of requests from requesters described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, may not charge duplication fees, except as described in (b)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section.
(ii) If DFC has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply and DFC provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional ten days.
(iii) If DFC has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, DFC may charge all applicable fees incurred in processing the request if the following steps are taken:
(A) DFC has provided timely written notice of unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA; and
(B) DFC has discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).
(iv) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
(3) No search or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(4) Except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use, DFC will provide without charge:
(i) The first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and
(ii) The first two hours of search.
(5) If, after deducting free entitlements, the total fee calculated under this section is $25.00 or less, no fee will be charged.
(c)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
(1) When DFC determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25.00, DFC will notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of fees for search, review, and duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, DFC will advise the requester accordingly. If the request is for noncommercial use, the notice will specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory entitlements of 100 pages of duplication at no charge, and if the requester is charged search fees, two hours of search time at no charge, and will advise the requester whether those entitlements have been provided.
(2) If DFC notifies the requester that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a noncommercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the requester's statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The requester must provide the commitment or designation in writing, and must, when applicable, designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay. DFC is not required to accept payments in installments.
(3) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but DFC estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the processing of the request will be tolled when DFC notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a
willingness to pay. DFC will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, DFC's time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
(4) DFC's FOIA Office or FOIA Public Liaison is available to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(d)
Charges for other services.
Although not required to provide special services, if DFC chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service will be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.
(e)
Charging interest.
DFC may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the thirty-first day following the billing date. Interest charges will be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the billing date until payment is received by DFC. DFC will follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749), as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use of consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(f)
Aggregating requests.
If DFC reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to divide a single request into a series of requests for the purpose of avoiding fees, DFC may aggregate those requests and charge accordingly. DFC may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a 30-day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, DFC will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters will not be aggregated.
(g)
Advance payments.
(1) For requests other than those described in paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section DFC will not require the requester to make an advance payment before work is commenced or continued on a request. Payment owed for work already completed (
i.e.,
payment before copies are sent to a requester) is not an advance payment.
(2) When DFC determines or estimates that a total fee to be charged under this section will exceed $250.00, it may require that the requester make an advance payment up to the amount of the entire anticipated fee before beginning to process the request. DFC may elect to process the request prior to collecting fees when it receives a satisfactory assurance of full payment from a requester with a history of prompt payment.
(3) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee to any agency within thirty calendar days of the billing date, DFC may require that the requester pay the full amount due, plus any applicable interest on that prior request. DFC may also require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of any anticipated fee before DFC begins to process a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. Where DFC has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented his or her identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, it may require that the requester provide proof of identity.
(4) In cases in which DFC requires advance payment, DFC's response time will be tolled and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within thirty calendar days after the date of DFC's fee letter, DFC may administratively close the request.
(h)
Other statutes specifically providing for fees.
The fee schedule of this section does not apply to fees charged under any statute that specifically requires an agency to set and collect fees for particular types of records. In instances where records responsive to a request are subject to a statutorily-based fee schedule program, DFC will inform the requester of the contact information for that program.
§ 706.24
Requirements for waiver or reduction of fees.
(a) Requesters may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written application demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations and activities of the government and is not primarily in the interest of the requester.
(b) DFC will furnish records responsive to a request without charge or at a reduced rate when it determines, based on all available information, that the factors described in paragraphs (b)(1)-(3) of this section are satisfied.
(1) Disclosure of the requested information would shed light on the operations or activities of the government. The subject of the request must concern identifiable operations or activities of the Federal government, with a connection that is direct and clear, not remote or attenuated.
(2) Disclosure of the requested information is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of those operations or activities. This factor is satisfied when the following criteria are met:
(i) Disclosure of the requested records must be meaningfully informative about government operations or activities. The disclosure of information that already is in the public domain, in either the same or a substantially identical form, would not be meaningfully informative if nothing new would be added to the public's understanding.
(ii) The disclosure must contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience of persons interested in the subject, as opposed to the individual understanding of the requester. A requester's expertise in the subject area as well as his or her ability and intention to effectively convey information to the public shall be considered. It shall ordinarily be presumed that a representative of the news media satisfies this consideration.
(3) The disclosure must not be primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. To determine whether disclosure of the requested information is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, DFC will consider the following factors:
(i) DFC shall identify whether the requester has any commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure. A commercial interest includes any commercial, trade, or profit interest. Requesters shall be given an opportunity to provide explanatory information regarding this consideration.
(ii) If there is a commercial interest, DFC will determine whether that is the primary interest furthered by the request. A waiver or reduction of fees is justified when the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are satisfied and any commercial interest is not the primary interest furthered by the request. DFC will ordinarily presume that when a news media requester has satisfied factors in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the request is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Disclosure to data brokers or others who merely compile and market government information for direct economic return will not be presumed to primarily serve the public interest.
(c) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver of fees, a waiver shall be granted for those records.
(d) Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to DFC and should address the criteria referenced above. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester will be required to pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.

# Subpart D—Processing of Requests for Non-Public Records
§ 706.30
Responsibility for responding to requests.
(a)
Authority to grant or deny requests.
The DFC President and CEO or designee is authorized to grant or to deny any requests for records.
(b)
Consultation, referral, and coordination.
When reviewing records responsive to a request, DFC will determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, DFC will proceed in one of the following ways:
(1)
Consultation.
When records originated with DFC, but contain within them information of interest to another agency or other Federal Government office, DFC will typically consult with that other entity prior to making a release determination.
(2)
Referral.
(i) When DFC believes that a different agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, DFC will typically refer the responsibility for responding to the request regarding that record to that agency. Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record is presumed to be the best agency to make the disclosure determination. However, if DFC and the originating agency jointly agree that DFC is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.
(ii) Whenever DFC refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, it will document the referral, maintain a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral, informing the requester of the name(s) of the agency to which the record was referred, including that agency's FOIA contact information.
(3)
Coordination.
The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For example, if in responding to a request for records on a living third party, DFC locates within its files records originating with a law enforcement agency, and if the existence of that law enforcement interest in the third party was not publicly known, then to disclose that law enforcement interest could cause an unwarranted invasion of the personal privacy of the third party. Similarly, if DFC locates within its files material originating with an Intelligence Community agency, and the involvement of that agency in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then to disclose or give attribution to the involvement of that Intelligence Community agency could cause national security harms. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, DFC should coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosability of the record. The release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination should then be conveyed to the requester by DFC.
(c)
Classified information.
On receipt of any request involving a record containing information that has been classified or may be appropriate for classification by another agency under any applicable executive order concerning the classification of records, DFC must refer the responsibility for responding to the request to the agency that classified the information, or that should consider the information for classification. Whenever DFC's record contains information that has been derivatively classified (for example, when it contains information classified by another agency), DFC must refer the responsibility for responding to that portion of the request to the agency that classified the underlying information.
(d)
Timing of responses to consultations and referrals.
All consultations and referrals will be handled according to the date that the first agency received the perfected FOIA request.
(e)
Agreements regarding consultations and referrals.
DFC may establish agreements with other agencies to eliminate the need for consultations or referrals with respect to particular types of records.
§ 706.31
Timing of responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
DFC ordinarily will process requests according to their order of receipt within their appropriate track under paragraph (b) of this section. The response time will commence on the date that the request is received by the FOIA Office, but in any event not later than ten working days after the request is first received by DFC. Any time tolled under subparagraph (c) of this section does not count against DFC's response time.
(b)
Multitrack processing.
DFC has a track for requests that are granted expedited processing, in accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph (f) of this section. Non-expedited requests will be placed into a “simple” or “complex” track based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. DFC will consider the number of records requested, the number of pages involved in processing the request, and the need for consultations or referrals. DFC will advise the requester into which track the request falls and, when appropriate, will offer requesters the opportunity to narrow or modify the request so that it can be placed in a different track.
(c)
Tolling of response time.
DFC may toll its response time once to seek clarification of a request in accordance with § 706.11(b) or as needed to resolve fee issues in accordance with §§ 706.22(c) and 706.23(d) of this part. The response time will resume upon DFC's receipt of the requester's clarification or upon resolution of the fee issue.
(d)
Unusual circumstances.
Whenever the statutory time limits for processing cannot be met because of “unusual circumstances” as defined in the FOIA, and DFC extends the time limits on that basis, DFC will notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which DFC estimates processing of the request will be completed. Where the extension exceeds ten working days, the requester will be provided an opportunity to modify the request or agree to an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. DFC will make its FOIA Office and its FOIA Public Liaison available for this purpose and will notify the requester of the availability of the Office of Government Services (OGIS) dispute resolution services.
(e)
Aggregating requests.
For the purposes of satisfying unusual circumstances under the FOIA, DFC may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. DFC will not aggregate multiple requests that involve unrelated matters.
(f)
Expedited processing.
(1) Requests and appeals will be processed on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve:
(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited processing could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;
(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal government activity, if made by a person who is primarily engaged in disseminating information;
(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time.
(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. For example, under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, a requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person whose primary activity or occupation is information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request—one that extends beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an “urgency to inform” the public on the tDFC. DFC may waive the formal certification requirement in its administrative discretion.
(4) DFC shall notify the requester within ten calendar days of the receipt
of a request for expedited processing of its decision whether to grant or deny expedited processing. If expedited processing is granted, the request shall be given priority, placed in the processing track for expedited requests, and shall be processed as soon as practicable. If DFC denies expedited processing, any appeal of that decision which complies with the procedures set forth in § 706.34 of this subpart shall be acted on expeditiously.
§ 706.32
Responses to requests.
(a)
In general.
To the extent practicable, DFC will communicate electronically with requesters who have access to the internet.
(b)
Acknowledgments of requests.
If a request will take longer than ten days to process, DFC will send the requester an acknowledgment letter that assigns the request an individualized tracking number. The letter will include a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of requests.
(c)
Grants of requests.
DFC will notify the requester in writing if it makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part. The notice will inform the requester of any fees charged under § 706.22 of this part and of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance. DFC will disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees.
(d)
Adverse determinations of requests.
DFC will notify the requester in writing if it makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: The requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.
(e)
Content of denial letter.
The denial letter will be signed by the person responsible for the denial, and will include:
(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;
(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemptions applied;
(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, for example, by providing the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation. This estimation is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part, or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(4) A brief description of the types of information withheld and the reasons for doing so. A description and explanation are not required if providing it would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;
(5) A statement that the denial may be appealed under Section 706.34(a) of this subpart, and a description of the appeal requirements;
(6) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from DFC's FOIA Public Liaison and dispute resolution services offered by OGIS; and
(7) Notice of any fees charged under § 706.23 of this part.
(f)
Markings on released documents.
Records disclosed in part must be marked clearly to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. If technically feasible, the location of the information deleted will be indicated on the record.
(g)
Notice of record exclusions.
(1) In the event that DFC identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), the agency will confer with the Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy, to obtain approval to apply the exclusion.
(2) DFC will maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of the exclusion by OIP.
§ 706.33
Confidential commercial information.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Confidential commercial information
means commercial or financial information obtained by the agency from a submitter that may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA. Exemption 4 protects certain:
(i) Trade secrets as defined under FOIA law; or
(ii) Commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential as defined under FOIA law.
(2)
Submitter
means any person or entity, including a corporation, State, or foreign government, but not including another Federal Government entity, that provides confidential commercial information to the Federal government, directly or indirectly.
(b)
Designation of confidential commercial information.
All submitters may designate, by appropriate markings, any portions of their submissions that they consider to be protected from disclosure under the FOIA. These markings will be considered by DFC in responding to a FOIA request but such markings (or the absence of such markings) will not be dispositive as to whether the marked information is ultimately released. Unless otherwise requested and approved these markings will be considered no longer applicable ten years after submission or five years after the close of the associated project, whichever is later.
(c)
When notice to submitters is required.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, DFC's FOIA Office will use reasonable efforts to notify a submitter in writing whenever:
(i) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as confidential commercial information protected from disclosure under Exemption 4; or
(ii) DFC has reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4, but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure.
(2) This notification will describe the nature and scope of the request, advise the submitter of its right to submit written objections in response to the request, and provide a reasonable time for response. The notice will either describe the commercial information requested or include copies of the requested records or portions of records containing the information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, notice may be made by posting or publishing the notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to inform the submitters of the proposed disclosure, instead of sending individual notifications.
(d)
Exceptions to submitter notice requirements.
The notice requirements of this section shall not apply if:
(1) DFC determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA, and therefore will not be disclosed;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has been officially made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous. In such case, DFC will give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.
(e)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
(1) DFC will specify a reasonable time period within which the submitter must respond to the notice referenced above.
(2) If a submitter has any objections to disclosure, it should provide DFC with a detailed written statement that specifies all grounds for withholding the particular information under any exemption of the FOIA. In setting forth such grounds, the submitter should explain the basis of its belief that the nondisclosure of any item of information requested is mandated or permitted by law. In order to rely on Exemption 4 as a basis for nondisclosure, the submitter shall explain why the information is considered a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential as defined under FOIA law.
(3) A submitter who fails to respond within the time period specified in the notice shall be considered to have no
objection to disclosure of the information. DFC is not required to consider any information received after the date of any disclosure decision. Any information provided by a submitter under this subpart may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(4) The period for providing DFC with objections to disclosure of information may be extended by DFC upon receipt of a written request for an extension from the submitter. Such written request shall set forth the date upon which any objections are expected to be completed and shall provide reasonable justification for the extension. In its discretion, DFC may permit more than one extension.
(f)
Analysis of objections.
DFC will consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondislosure in deciding whether to disclose the requested information.
(g)
Notice of intent to disclose.
If DFC decides to disclosure information over the objection of a submitter, DFC will notify the submitter of its determination at least five working days prior to release of the information. The notification will include:
(1) A statement of the reasons why each of the submitter's disclosure objections was not sustained;
(2) A description of the information to be disclosed, or a copy thereof; and
(3) A specified disclosure date, which shall be a reasonable time subsequent to the notice.
(h)
Notice of FOIA lawsuit.
Whenever a requester files a FOIA lawsuit seeking to compel the disclosure of confidential commercial information, DFC will promptly notify the submitter.
(i)
Requester notification.
DFC will notify a requester whenever it provides the submitter with notice and an opportunity to object to disclosure; whenever it notifies the submitter of its intent to disclose the requested information; and whenever a submitter files a lawsuit to prevent the disclosure of the information.
§ 706.34
Administrative appeals.
(a)
Requirements for making an appeal.
A requester may appeal any adverse determinations to DFC's Vice President and General Counsel at
foia@dfc.gov
or 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in Section 706.06(c) of this subpart. The requester must make the appeal in writing and it must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within ninety calendar days after the date of the response. The appeal should clearly identify DFC's determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number. The requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(b)
Adjudication of appeals.
DFC's Vice President and General Counsel or his/her designee will render a written decision within twenty working days after the date of DFC's receipt of the appeal, unless an extension of up to ten working days is deemed necessary due to unusual circumstances. The requester will be notified in writing of any extension.
(c)
Decisions on appeals.
A decision that upholds the initial determination will contain a written statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied, and will provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and the ability to request dispute resolution from the Office of Government Information Services. If an initial determination is remanded or modified on appeal the requester will be notified in writing. DFC's FOIA Office will then process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and respond directly to the requester. If an appeal is granted in whole or in part, the information will be made available promptly, provided the requirements of Section 706.23 regarding payment of fees are satisfied.
(d)
Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by OGIS.
Dispute resolution is a voluntary process. If DFC agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
(e)
When appeal is required.
Before seeking court review, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal.
[82 FR 20434, May 2, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019]
Pt. 707

# PART 707—ACCESS TO AND SAFEGUARDING OF PERSONAL INFORMATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
707.11
Scope and purpose.
707.12
Definitions.
707.13
Preservation of records.

# Subpart B—Requests for Access to Records; Amendment of Records, Accounting of Disclosures; Notice of Court Ordered Disclosures
707.21
Requests for access to or copies of records.
707.22
Requests to permit access of records to an individual other than the individual to whom the record pertains.
707.23
Requests for amendment of records.
707.24
Requests for an accounting of record disclosures.
707.25
Appeals.
707.26
Notification of court-ordered disclosures.
707.27
Fees.

# Subpart C—Exceptions
707.31
Specific exemptions.
707.32
Special exemption.
707.33
Other rights and services.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a; Pub. L. 115-254, sections 1401-1470.

# Source:
79 FR 8614, Feb. 13, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 707 appear at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019.

# Subpart A—General
§ 707.11
Scope and purpose.
This part applies to all records in systems of records maintained by DFC that are retrievable by an individual's name or personal identifier. The rules in this part describe the procedures by which individuals may request access to records about themselves, request amendment or correction of those records, or request an accounting of disclosures of records by DFC. These rules should be read in conjunction with the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, which provides additional information about records maintained on individuals.
§ 707.12
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
(b)
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate;
(c)
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, his education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or photograph;
(d)
System of records
mean a group of any records under the control of DFC from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual;
(e)
Statistical record
means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8;
(f)
Routine use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.
§ 707.13
Preservation of records.
DFC preserves all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this part, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 14 of the National Archives and Records Administration. Records that are identified as responsive to a request will not be disposed of or destroyed while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the Privacy Act.

# Subpart B—Requests for Access to Records; Amendment of Records, Accounting of Disclosures; Notice of Court Ordered Disclosures
§ 707.21
Requests for access to or copies of records.
(a)
How to submit.
An individual may request access to or copies of records maintained by DFC that are retrieved by an individual's personal identifier. To make a request for records a requester must submit a written request to the Director of Human Resources Management either by mail or delivery to US International Development Finance Corporation, 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527 or electronic mail to
privacy@dfc.gov.
The envelope or subject line should read “Privacy Act Request” to ensure proper routing. Access to records maintained by DFC will be provided only by appointment. No officer or employee of DFC shall provide an individual with any records under this part until a written request as described in paragraph (b) of this section is provided and the identity of the individual is verified as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b
) Information to include.
All requests under this section must:
(1) Be in writing and be signed by the requester. Unless the requester is a current officer or employee of DFC, the letter must also be duly acknowledged before a notary public or other authorized public official or signed under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization;
(2) Provide information sufficient to verify the identity of the requester, including the requester's full name, current address, date of birth, place of birth, or the system of record identification name or number. Also include a clearly legible copy of a valid form of identification. If the request is being made by a parent or guardian on behalf of another, also include the same information for the individual who is the subject of the request along with a court order, birth certificate, or similar document proving the guardianship. DFC will review the sufficiency of identity evidence under paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Provide information sufficient to accurately identify the records or information so that DFC staff can locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. At minimum this should include the full name, the system of record identification name, or the system identification number for the individual who is the subject of the records. Provision of a social security number is optional. If possible, also include a description of the records as well as providing a record creation time range and the name of the systems that should be searched. A description of DFC's system of records can be located in the “Privacy Act Compilation” published by the National Archives and Records Administration's Office of the Federal Register. Each system of records is also published in the
Federal Register
;
(4) Specify whether the individual wishes access to or copies of the information pertaining to him. If access is requested, provide at least one preferred date and hour for which an appointment is requested during regular business hours as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. DFC encourages appointments to be made at least one week in advance and for a requester to provide at least three preferred appointment times; and
(5) Include an agreement to pay fees or an agreement to pay fees up to a specified amount under § 707.27. A request that does not include an agreement to pay fees will be considered an agreement to pay fees up to $25.00.
(c)
Verification of identity.
Prior to providing any requested information about an individual, the Director of Human Resources Management shall verify the identity of the individual. If the requester is acting as the guardian of the individual who is the subject of the records, the Director will also verify the identity of the individual who is the subject of the records, the relationship between the requester and the subject individual, and that the requester is acting on behalf of the subject individual. In order to verify identity, the Director shall require the individual to provide reasonable proof of
identity such as a valid driver's license, identification card, passport, employee identification card, or any other identifying information. The Director shall deny any request where she determines, at her sole discretion, that the evidence offered to verify the identity of an individual is insufficient to conclusively establish the identity of the individual.
(d)
Release of records.
Originals and record copies will not be released from the files of DFC. Individuals will not be permitted to disturb any record files or to remove records from designated place of examination. If copies were requested in the request letter, copies will be furnished upon payment of the fees prescribed in § 707.27.
(e)
Denial of request.
If the Director of Human Resources Management declines any request submitted under this section, the denial will be made in writing and contain a brief description of the denial. Denials include a determination that an individual has not provided adequate evidence to verify identity under paragraph (c) of this section, a determination that the record cannot be located, and a withholding of a record in whole or in part. In the event of a denial, the requester may file a written appeal within thirty days of the date of notification, following the procedures in § 707.25.
[79 FR 8614, Feb. 13, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019]
§ 707.22
Requests to permit access of records to an individual other than the individual to whom the record pertains.
(a)
Access by an authorized individual.
An individual requester who wishes to be accompanied by another individual when reviewing records pertaining to the requester must provide DFC with a signed, written statement authorizing discussion of the information contained in the records in the presence of the accompanying individual. Both parties will be required to verify their identity under § 707.21(c) before access is granted.
(b)
Release to an authorized individual.
An individual requester who wishes to have copies of records pertaining to the requester released to another individual must provide DFC with a written statement authorizing release of the information contained in the records to the other individual. The identity of the individual to whom the record pertains must be verified under § 707.21(c) before release is authorized.
(c)
Access or release to parent or guardian.
Guardians will be provided access or copies under the provisions of § 707.21.
§ 707.23
Requests for amendment of records.
(a)
How to submit.
Unless a record is not subject to amendment, per paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, an individual may request an amendment of a record to correct information the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. The request must be in writing, labeled “Privacy Act Request,” and should be addressed to the Director of Human Resources Management. The request may either be mailed to DFC or delivered to the receptionist at 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527, during regular business hours, between 8:45 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding public holidays. The request will be considered received when actually delivered to or, if mailed, when it is actually received by the Director of Human Resources Management.
(b)
Information to include.
All requests under this section must:
(1) Be in writing and be signed by the requester. Unless the requester is a current officer or employee of DFC, the letter must also be duly acknowledged before a notary public or other authorized public official or signed under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization;
(2) Provide information sufficient to verify the identity of the requester, including the requester's full name, current address, date of birth, place of birth, or the system of record identification name or number. Also include a clearly legible copy of a valid form of identification. If the request is being made by a parent or guardian on behalf of another, also include the same information for the individual who is the subject of the request along with a court order, birth certificate, or similar document proving the guardianship.
DFC will review the sufficiency of identity evidence under paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Provide information sufficient to accurately identify each record so that DFC staff can locate the record and information with a reasonable amount of effort. At minimum this should include the full name, the system of record identification name, or the system record identification number for the individual who is the subject of the records and the name for each system that you believe the record is located in. Provision of a social security number is optional. If possible, you should also include a description of the records and provide a record creation time range. A description of DFC's systems of records can be located in the “Privacy Act Compilation” published by the National Archives and Records Administration's Office of the Federal Register. Each system of records is also published in the
Federal Register
;
(4) Specify the correction requested; and
(5) Detail the basis for the requester's belief that the records and information are not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. This includes providing substantial and reliable evidence sufficient to permit DFC to determine whether an amendment is in order.
(c)
Verification of identity.
Prior to amending information about an individual, the Director of Human Resources Management shall verify the identity of the requesting individual. If the requester is acting as the guardian of the individual who is the subject of the records, the Director will also verify the identity of the individual who is the subject of the records, the relationship between the requester and the subject individual, and that the requester is acting on behalf of the subject individual. In order to verify identity, the Director shall require the individual to provide reasonable proof of identity such as a valid driver's license, identification card, passport, employee identification card, or any other identifying information. The Director shall deny any request where she determines, at her sole discretion, that the evidence offered to verify the identity of an individual is insufficient to conclusively establish the identity of the individual.
(d)
Acknowledgment of request.
If a request will take longer than ten (10) business days to process, DFC will send the requester an acknowledgment letter. Any request that Director of Human Resources Management determines does not describe records or information in enough detail to permit the staff to promptly locate the records; does not describe the correction requested in enough detail to permit the staff to make a correction; or does not reasonably specify the amendment requested or its basis will be returned without prejudice to the requester and treated as not received.
(e)
Determination.
The Director of Human Resources Management will provide a determination on a request under this section within thirty (30) days from receipt.
(1)
Amendment.
The Director of Human Resources Management will notify the requester in writing if the amendment is made and provide the individual an opportunity to request a copy of the amended record.
(2)
Denial.
The Director of Human Resources Management will notify the requester in writing if she denies any portion of a request made under this section. The denial will include a brief explanation of the reason for the refusal and the right of the individual to file an appeal within thirty (30) days, following the procedures in § 707.25. In the event an appeal is denied, a requester may file a statement of disagreement with DFC as described in § 707.25(c).
(f)
Notification of amendment.
Within thirty (30) days of the amendment or correction of a record or the filing of a statement of disagreement, DFC will notify all persons, organizations, or agencies to which it previously disclosed the record, if an accounting of that disclosure was made. If an individual has filed a statement of disagreement, DFC will attach a copy of it to the disputed record whenever the record is disclosed in the future and may also attach a concise statement of its reasons for denying the request to amend or correct.
(g)
Records not subject to amendment.
The following records are not subject to amendment:
(1) Transcripts of testimony given under oath or written statements made under oath;
(2) Transcripts of grand jury proceedings, judicial proceedings, or quasi-judicial proceedings, which are the official record of those proceedings;
(3) Presentence records that originated with the courts; and
(4) Records in systems of records that have been exempted from amendment and correction under the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k) or by notice published in the
Federal Register.
(h)
No amendment permitted.
No part of these rules shall be construed to permit:
(1) The alteration of evidence presented in the course of judicial, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative proceedings;
(2) Collateral attack upon any matter which has been the subject of judicial or quasi-judicial action; or
(3) An amendment or correction which would be in violation of an existing statute, executive order, or regulation.
§ 707.24
Requests for an accounting of record disclosures.
(a)
How to submit.
Unless an accounting of disclosures is not required to be kept under paragraph (e) of this section, an individual may request an accounting of all disclosures DFC has made of a record, maintained in a system of records and about the individual, to another person, organization, or agency. The request must be in writing, labeled “Privacy Act Request,” and should be addressed to the Director of Human Resources Management. The request may either be mailed to DFC or delivered to the receptionist at 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527, during regular business hours, between 8:45 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding public holidays. The request will be considered received when actually delivered to or, if mailed, when it is actually received by the Director of Human Resources Management.
(b)
Information to include.
All requests under this section must:
(1) Be in writing and be signed by the requester. Unless the requester is a current officer or employee of DFC, the letter must also be duly acknowledged before a notary public or other authorized public official or signed under 28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization;
(2) Provide information sufficient to verify the identity of the requester, including the requester's full name, current address, date of birth, place of birth, or the system of record identification name or number. Also include a clearly legible copy of a valid form of identification. If the request is being made by a parent or guardian on behalf of another, also include the same information for the individual who is the subject of the request along with a court order, birth certificate, or similar document proving the guardianship. DFC will review the sufficiency of identity evidence under paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) Provide information sufficient to accurately identify the records or information so that DFC staff can locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. At minimum this should include the full name, the system of record identification name, or the system record identification number for the individual who is the subject of the records and the name for each system that you believe the record is located in. Provision of a social security number is optional. If possible, you should also include a description of the records and provide a time range. A description of DFC's system of records can be located in the “Privacy Act Compilation” published by the National Archives and Records Administration's Office of the Federal Register. Each system of records is also published in the
Federal Register
;
(4) Include an agreement to pay fees or an agreement to pay fees up to a specified amount under § 707.27. A request that does not include an agreement to pay fees will be considered an agreement to pay fees up to $25.00.
(c)
Verification of identity.
Prior to providing any requested information about an individual, the Director of Human Resources Management shall
verify the identity of the requesting individual. If the requester is acting as the guardian of the individual who is the subject of the records, the Director will also verify the identity of the individual who is the subject of the records, the relationship between the requester and the subject individual, and that the requester is acting on behalf of the subject individual. In order to verify identity, the Director shall require the individual to provide reasonable proof of identity such as a valid driver's license, identification card, passport, employee identification card, or any other identifying information. The Director shall deny any request where she determines, at her sole discretion, that the evidence offered to verify the identity of an individual is insufficient to conclusively
establish
the identity of the individual.
(d)
Determination.
The Director of Human Resources Management will provide a requester with one of the following:
(1)
Provision of accounting of disclosures.
If the request is granted, the Director of Human Resources Management will provide the individual with an accounting containing the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure, as well as the name and address of the person, organization, or agency to which the disclosure was made.
(2)
Denial.
The Director of Human Resources Management will notify the individual in writing if she denies any portion of a request made under this section. The denial will include a brief explanation of the reason for the refusal and the right of the individual to request a review thereof under the provisions of § 707.25.
(e)
Disclosures where an accounting of disclosures is not required.
DFC need not provide an accounting of disclosures where:
(1) The disclosures are of the type for which accountings are not kept. For example, disclosures made to employees within the agency; or
(2) The disclosure was made in response to a written request from a law enforcement agency for authorized law enforcement purposes.
§ 707.25
Appeals.
An individual may appeal a denial made under §§ 707.21 through 707.23 within thirty (30) days of the notification of such denial.
(a)
How to submit.
The appeal must be in writing, labeled “Privacy Act Appeal,” and should be addressed to the Executive Vice President. The request may either be mailed to DFC or delivered to the receptionist at 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527, during regular business hours, between 8:45 a.m. and 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding public holidays.
(b)
Information to include.
All requests under this section must:
(1) Be in writing and be signed by the requester;
(2) Be clearly labeled “PRIVACY ACT APPEAL” on both the letter and the envelope;
(3) Clearly reference the determination being appealed; and
(4) Provide support for your information, including documentation provided in the initial determination and any additional information.
(b)
Appeal determination.
The Executive Vice President will advise the individual of DFC's determination within thirty (30) business days. If the Executive Vice President is unable to provide a determination within thirty business days, the individual will be advised in writing of the reason before the expiry of the thirty business days.
(1)
Overturn initial determination.
If the Executive Vice President grants the appeal and overturns the initial determination in whole or part, the individual will be notified in writing and the requested action taken promptly along with any other steps DFC would have taken had the initial determination come to the same result as the appeal.
(2)
Uphold initial determination.
If the Executive Vice President denies the appeal and upholds the initial determination in whole or in part, the individual will be notified in writing and provided with an explanation. In cases where a denial of amendment or correction is upheld, the individual will also be notified of the ability to file a statement of disagreement under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Statement of disagreement.
If an individual is denied a request to amend a record in whole or in part and that denial is upheld on appeal, the individual may file a statement of disagreement. Statements of disagreement must be concise, clearly identify each part of any record that is disputed, and should be no longer than one typed page for each fact disputed. The statement of disagreement will be placed in the system of records that contains the disputed record and the record will be marked to indicate that a statement of disagreement has been filed. The statement of disagreement will be attached to any future releases of the disputed record and may be accompanied by a concise statement from DFC explaining its denial.
§ 707.26
Notification of court-ordered disclosures.
(a) Except in cases under paragraph (c) of this section, when a record pertaining to an individual is required to be disclosed by court order, DFC will make reasonable efforts to provide notice of this to the individual. If DFC cannot locate the individual, notice will be deemed sufficient for this part if it is mailed to the individual's last known address. The notice will contain a copy of the order and a description of the information disclosed.
(b) Notice will be given within a reasonable time after DFC's receipt of the order, unless the order is not a matter of public record. In those cases, the notice will be given only after the order becomes public.
(c) Notice is not required if disclosure is made from an exempt system of records.
§ 707.27
Fees.
(a) The fees to be charged for making copies of any records provided to an individual under this part are ten (10) cents per page. No fees will be charged for search or review.
(b) At its discretion, DFC may grant a request for special services such as mailing copies by means other than first class mail or providing document certification. All special services provided to the requester will be provided at cost.
(c) DFC considers any request under the Privacy Act to be an authorization to incur up to $25.00 in fees unless a request states otherwise.
(d) DFC may condition access to records or copies of records upon full payment of any fees due.
(e) All payments under this part must be in the form of a check or bank draft denominated in U.S. currency. Checks should be made payable to the order of the United States Treasury and mailed or hand delivered to DFC at 1100 New York Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20527.

# Subpart C—Exceptions
§ 707.31
Specific exemptions.
The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H) and (I) and (f) shall not apply to any system of records maintained by DFC that is—
(a) Subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1);
(b) Composed of Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than those specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2);
(c) Required by statute to be maintained and used solely as statistical records;
(d) Composed of investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts or access to classified information, but only to the extent that DFC may determine, in its sole discretion, that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of the source who, subsequent to September 27, 1975, furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence or, prior to such date, under an implied promise to such effect; and
(e) Composed of testing or examination materials used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion in the Federal service and DFC determines, in its sole discretion, that disclosure of such materials would compromise the fairness of the testing or examination process.
§ 707.32
Special exemption.
Nothing in this part shall allow an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
§ 707.33
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to entitle any person, as of right, to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the Privacy Act.
PARTS 708-709 [RESERVED]
Pt. 710

# PART 710—ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES OF POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS
Sec.
710.1
General.
710.2
Action on receipt of information regarding violation.
710.3
Initiation of administrative disciplinary proceeding.
710.4
Notice.
710.5
Failure to request hearing.
710.6
Appointment and qualifications of examiner.
710.7
Time, date and place of hearing.
710.8
Rights of parties at hearing.
710.9
Burden of proof.
710.10
Findings.
710.11
Appeal.
710.12
Finding of violation.
710.13
Appropriate action.
710.14
Judicial review.
710.15
Delegation of authority.

# Authority:
18 U.S.C. 207; Pub. L. 115-254, sections 1401-1470.

# Source:
45 FR 5685, Jan. 24, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 710 appear at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019.
§ 710.1
General.
The following procedures are hereby established with respect to the administrative enforcement of restrictions on post-employment activities (18 U.S.C. 207(a), (b) or (c) and implementing regulations (44 FR 19987 and 19988, April 3, 1979) published by the Office of Government Ethics.
§ 710.2
Action on receipt of information regarding violation.
On receipt of information regarding a possible violation of the statutory or regulatory post-employment restrictions by a former DFC employee and after determining that such information does not appear to be frivolous, the President of DFC or the President's designee shall provide such information to the Director of the Office of Government Ethics and to the Criminal Division, Department of Justice. Any investigation or administrative action shall be coordinated with the Department of Justice to avoid prejudicing possible criminal proceedings. If the Department of Justice informs DFC that it does not intend to institute criminal proceedings, such coordination shall no longer be required and DFC shall be free to pursue administrative action.
§ 710.3
Initiation of administrative disciplinary proceeding.
Whenever the President of DFC or the President's designee determines after appropriate review that there is reasonable cause to believe that a former DFC employee had violated the statutory or regulatory post-employment restrictions, an administrative disciplinary proceeding shall be initiated.
§ 710.4
Notice.
The President of DFC or the President's designee shall initiate an administrative disciplinary hearing by providing the former DFC employee with notice of an intention to institute a proceeding and an opportunity for a hearing. Notice must include:
(a) A statement of allegations and the basis thereof sufficiently detailed to enable the former employee to prepare an adequate defense;
(b) Notification of the right to a hearing; and
(c) An explanation of the method by which a hearing may be requested.
§ 710.5
Failure to request hearing.
The President of DFC may take appropriate action referred to in § 710.13
in the case of any former DFC employee who has failed to make a written request to DFC for a hearing within 30 days after receiving adequate notice.
§ 710.6
Appointment and qualifications of examiner.
When a former DFC employee after receiving adequate notice requests a hearing, a presiding official (hereinafter referred to as “examiner”) shall be appointed by the President of DFC to make an initial decision. The examiner shall be a responsible person who is a member of the bar of a State or of the District of Columbia, who is impartial and who has not participated in any manner in the decision to initiate the proceedings. The examiner may or may not be an DFC employee.
§ 710.7
Time, date and place of hearing.
The examiner shall establish a reasonable time, date and place to conduct the hearing. In establishing a date, the examiner shall give due regard to the former employee's need for:
(a) Adequate time to prepare a defense properly; and
(b) An expeditious resolution of allegations that may be damaging to the individual's reputation.
§ 710.8
Rights of parties at hearing.
A hearing shall include, at a minimum, the following rights for both parties to:
(a) Represent oneself or be represented by counsel;
(b) Introduce and examine witnesses and submit physical evidence (including the use of interrogatories);
(c) Confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses;
(d) Present oral argument; and
(e) Receive a transcript or recording of the proceedings on request.
§ 710.9
Burden of proof.
In any hearing under this part, DFC shall have the burden of proof and must establish substantial evidence of a violation of the statutory or post-employment restrictions.
§ 710.10
Findings.
The examiner shall make a determination exclusively on matters of record in the proceeding and shall set forth in the written decision all findings of fact and conclusions of law relevant to the matters in issue.
§ 710.11
Appeal.
(a) Within 20 days of the date of the initial decision, either party may appeal the decision to the President of DFC. The President's decision on such appeal shall be based solely on the record of the proceedings or those portions thereof cited by the parties to limit the issues.
(b) If the President modifies or reverses the examiner's decision, the President shall specify such findings of fact and conclusions of law as are different from those of the examiner.
(c) The decision of the President on appeal, shall constitute final administrative decision. An initial decision of the examiner which has not been appealed during the 20-day period provided shall become a final administrative decision on the twenty-first day.
§ 710.12
Finding of violation.
The President of DFC shall take appropriate action referred to in § 710.13 in the case of an individual who is found in violation of the statutory or regulatory post-employment restrictions, after a final administrative decision.
§ 710.13
Appropriate action.
Appropriate action includes:
(a) Prohibiting the individual from making, on behalf of any other person (except the United States), any formal or informal appearance before, or with the intent to influence, any oral or written communication to, DFC on any matter or business for a period not to exceed five years, which may be accomplished by directing DFC employees to refuse to participate in any such appearance or to accept any such communication.
(b) Taking other appropriate disciplinary action.
[45 FR 5685, Jan. 24, 1980; 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984]
§ 710.14
Judicial review.
Any person found to have participated in a violation of statutory or regulatory post-employment restrictions (18 U.S.C. 207(a), (b) or (c) or the regulations compiled at 44 FR 19987 and 19988, April 3, 1979) may seek judicial review of the administrative determination.
§ 710.15
Delegation of authority.
The functions of the President of DFC specified in §§ 710.2, 710.4 and 710.5 of this part are delegated to the General Counsel of DFC. An examiner shall be delegated authority on an
ad hoc
basis.
Pt. 711

# PART 711—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES
Sec.
711.101
Purpose.
711.102
Application.
711.103
Definitions.
711.104-711.109
[Reserved]
711.110
Self-evaluation.
711.111
Notice.
711.112-711.129
[Reserved]
711.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
711.131-711.139
[Reserved]
711.140
Employment.
711.141-711.148
[Reserved]
711.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
711.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
711.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
711.152-711.159
[Reserved]
711.160
Communications.
711.161-711.169
[Reserved]
711.170
Compliance procedures.
711.171-711.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794; Pub. L. 115-254, sections 1401-1470.

# Source:
53 FR 25882, 25885, July 8, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 711.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 711.102
Application.
This regulation (§§ 711.101-711.170) applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.
§ 711.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this regulation, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that
have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified individual with handicaps
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, an individual with handicaps who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency;
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this regulation by § 711.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617); the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955); and the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-506, 100 Stat. 1810). As used in this regulation, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special
character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 711.104-711.109
[Reserved]
§ 711.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by September 6, 1989, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this regulation and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, for at least three years following completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 711.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this regulation and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 711.112-711.129
[Reserved]
§ 711.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards;
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this regulation.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this regulation.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.
§§ 711.131-711.139
[Reserved]
§ 711.140
Employment.
No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subject to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 711.141-711.148
[Reserved]
§ 711.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 711.150, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 711.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 711.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for
reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 711.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with handicaps. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 711.150(a) (2) or (3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide individuals with handicaps into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by November 7, 1988, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by September 6, 1991, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by March 6, 1989, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 711.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607,
apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 711.152-711.159
[Reserved]
§ 711.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 711.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 711.161-711.169
[Reserved]
§ 711.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Director of Personnel shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Overseas Private Investment Corporation, 1100 New York Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20527, Attention: Director of Human Resources Management.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 711.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[53 FR 25882, 25885, July 8, 1988, as amended 53 FR 25883, July 8, 1988; 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019]
§§ 711.171-711.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 712

# PART 712—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
712.100
Conditions on use of funds.
712.105
Definitions.
712.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
712.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
712.205
Professional and technical services.
712.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
712.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
712.400
Penalties.
712.405
Penalty procedures.
712.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
712.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
712.600
Semi-annual compilation.
712.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 712—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 712—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 1352; Pub. L. 115-254, section 1401-1470.

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6750, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 712.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative ageement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal
contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 712.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to
influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S. Code, including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S. Code;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S. Code; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S. Code appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to perfessional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 712.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 712.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 712.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 712.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 712.100 (a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by
law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 712.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 712.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 712.100 (a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 712.110 (a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 712.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not
more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
§ 712.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 712.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 712.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 712.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 712.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 712, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 712—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting
to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 712, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 712—Disclosure Form To Report Lobbying
EC13OC91.006
EC13OC91.007
EC13OC91.008
Pt. 713

# PART 713—PRODUCTION OF NONPUBLIC RECORDS AND TESTIMONY OF EMPLOYEES IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
713.1
What does this part prohibit?
713.2
When does this part apply?
713.3
How do I request nonpublic records or testimony?
713.4
What must my written request contain?
713.5
When should I make my request?
713.6
Where should I send my request?
713.7
What will OPIC do with my request?
713.8
If my request is granted, what fees apply?
713.9
If my request is granted, what restrictions may apply?
713.10
Definitions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 5 U.S.C. 552; 5 U.S.C. 552a; 5 U.S.C. 702; 18 U.S.C. 207; 18 U.S.C. 641; 22 U.S.C. 2199(d); 28 U.S.C. 1821; Pub. L. 115-254, sections 1401-1470.

# Source:
64 FR 8241, Feb. 19, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 713 appear at 84 FR 37752, Aug. 2, 2019.
§ 713.1
What does this part prohibit?
This part prohibits the release of nonpublic records for legal proceedings or the appearance of an DFC employee to testify in legal proceedings except as provided in this part. Any person possessing nonpublic records may release them or permit their disclosure or release only as provided in this part.
(a)
Duty of DFC employees.
(1) If you are an DFC employee and you are served with a subpoena requiring you to appear as a witness or to produce records, you must promptly notify the Vice-president/General Counsel in the Department of Legal Affairs. The Vice-President/General Counsel has the authority to instruct DFC employees to refuse to appear as a witness or to withhold nonpublic records. The Vice-President/General Counsel may let an DFC employee provide testimony, including expert or opinion testimony, if the Vice-President/General Counsel determines that the need for the testimony clearly outweighs contrary considerations.
(2) If a court or other appropriate authority orders or demands from you expert or opinion testimony or testimony beyond authorized subjects contrary to the Vice-President/General Counsel's instructions, you must immediately notify the Vice-President/General Counsel of the order and then respectfully decline to comply with the order. You must decline to answer questions on the grounds that this part forbids such disclosure. You should produce a copy of this part, request an opportunity to consult with the Vice-President/General Counsel, and explain that providing such testimony without approval may expose you to disciplinary or other adverse action.
(b)
Duty of persons who are not DFC employees.
(1) If you are not an DFC employee but have custody of nonpublic records, as defined at § 713.10, and you are served with a subpoena requiring you to produce records or to testify as a witness, you must promptly notify DFC of the subpoena. Also, you must notify the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued of the contents of this part. Provide notice to DFC by sending a copy of the subpoena to the Vice-President/General Counsel, DFC, 1100 New York Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20527. After reviewing notice, DFC may advise the issuing court or authority and the person or entity for whom the subpoena was issued that this part applies and, in addition, may intervene, attempt to have the subpoena quashed or withdrawn, or register appropriate objections.
(2) After you notify the Vice-President/General Counsel of the subpoena, respond to the subpoena by appearing at the time and place stated in the subpoena, unless otherwise directed by the Vice President/General Counsel. Unless otherwise authorized by the Vice-President/General Counsel, decline to produce any records or give any testimony, basing your refusal on this part. If the issuing court or authority orders the disclosure of records or orders you to testify, decline to produce records or testify and advise the Vice-President/General Counsel.
(c)
Penalties.
Anyone who discloses nonpublic records or gives testimony related to those records, except as expressly authorized by DFC or as ordered by a federal court after DFC has had the opportunity to be heard, may face the penalties provided in 18 U.S.C.
641 and other applicable laws. Also, former DFC employees, in addition to the prohibition contained in this part, are subject to the restrictions and penalties of 18 U.S.C. 207.
§ 713.2
When does this part apply?
This part applies if you want to obtain nonpublic records or testimony of an DFC employee for a legal proceeding. It does not apply to records that DFC is required to release, records which DFC discretionarily releases under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), records that DFC releases to federal or state investigatory agencies, records that DFC is required to release pursuant to the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or records that DFC releases under any other applicable authority.
[79 FR 8619, Feb. 13, 2014]
§ 713.3
How do I request nonpublic records or testimony?
To request nonpublic records or the testimony of an DFC employee, you must submit a written request as described in § 713.4 to the Vice-President/General Counsel of DFC. If you serve a subpoena on DFC or an DFC employee before submitting a written request and receiving a final determination, DFC will oppose the subpoena on the grounds that you failed to follow the requirements of this part.
[79 FR 8619, Feb. 13, 2014]
§ 713.4
What must my written request contain?
Your written request for records or testimony must include:
(a) The caption of the legal proceeding, docket number, and name of the court or other authority involved.
(b) A copy of the complaint or equivalent document setting forth the assertions in the case and any other pleading or document necessary to show relevance.
(c) A list of categories of records sought, a detailed description of how the information sought is relevant to the issues in the legal proceeding, and a specific description of the substance of the testimony or records sought.
(d) A statement as to how the need for the information outweighs the need to maintain the confidentiality of the information and outweighs the burden on DFC to produce the records or provide testimony.
(e) A statement indicating that the information sought is not available from another source, such as the requestor's own books and records, other persons or entities, or the testimony of someone other than an DFC employee, such as retained experts.
(f) A description of all prior decisions, orders, or pending motions in the case that bear upon the relevance of the records or testimony you want.
(g) The name, address, and telephone number of counsel to each party in the case.
(h) An estimate of the amount of time you anticipate that you and other parties will need with each DFC employee for interviews, depositions, and/or testimony.
§ 713.5
When should I make my request?
Submit your request at least 45 days before the date you need the records or testimony. If you want your request processed in a shorter time, you must explain why you could not submit the request earlier and why you need such expedited processing. DFC retains full discretion to grant, deny, or propose a new completion date on any request for expedited processing. If you are requesting the testimony of an DFC employee, DFC expects you to anticipate your need for the testimony in sufficient time to obtain it by deposition. The Vice-President/General Counsel may well deny a request for testimony at a legal proceeding unless you explain why you could not have used deposition testimony instead. The Vice-President/General Counsel will determine the location of a deposition, taking into consideration DFC's interest in minimizing the disruption for an DFC employee's work schedule and the costs and convenience of other persons attending the deposition.
[79 FR 8619, Feb. 13, 2014]
§ 713.6
Where should I send my request?
Send your request or subpoena for records or testimony to the attention of the Vice-President/General Counsel,
DFC, 1100 New York Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20527.
§ 713.7
What will DFC do with my request?
(a)
Factors DFC will consider.
DFC may consider various factors in reviewing a request for nonpublic records or testimony of DFC employees, including:
(1) Whether disclosure would assist or hinder DFC in performing its statutory duties or use DFC resources unreasonably, including whether responding to the request will interfere with DFC employees' ability to do their work.
(2) Whether disclosure is necessary to prevent the perpetration of a fraud or other injustice in the matter.
(3) Whether you can get the records or testimony you want from sources other than DFC.
(4) Whether the request is unduly burdensome.
(5) Whether disclosure would violate a statute, executive order, or regulation, such as the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(6) Whether disclosure would reveal confidential, sensitive or privileged information, trade secrets or similar, confidential commercial or financial information, or would otherwise be inappropriate for release and, if so, whether a confidentiality agreement or protective order as provided in § 713.9(a) can adequately limit the disclosure.
(7) Whether the disclosure would interfere with law enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, or hamper DFC programs or other DFC operations.
(8) Whether the disclosure could result in DFC's appearing to favor one litigant over another.
(9) Any other factors DFC determines to be relevant to the interests of DFC.
(b)
Review of your request.
DFC will process your request in the order it is received. DFC will try to respond to your request within 45 days, but this may vary, depending on the scope of your request.
(c)
Final determination.
the Vice-President/General Counsel makes the final determination on requests for nonpublic records or DFC employee testimony. All final determinations are in the sole discretion of the Vice-President/General Counsel. The Vice-President/General Counsel will notify you and the court or other authority of the final determination of your request. In considering your request, the Vice-President/General Counsel may contact you to inform you of the requirements of this part, ask that the request or subpoena be modified or withdrawn, or may try to resolve the request or subpoena informally without issuing a final determination.
§ 713.8
If my request is granted, what fees apply?
(a)
Generally.
You must pay any fees associated with complying with your request, including copying fees for records and witness fees for testimony. The Vice-President/General Counsel may condition the production of records or appearance for testimony upon advance payment of a reasonable estimate of the fees.
(b)
Fees for records.
You must pay all fees for searching, reviewing and duplicating records produced in response to your request. The fees will be the same as those charged by DFC under its Freedom of Information Act regulations, 22 CFR Part 706, Subpart B, § 706.26.
(c)
Witness fees.
Your must pay the fees, expenses, and allowances prescribed by the court's rules for attendance by a witness. If no such fees are prescribed, the local federal district court rule concerning witness fees, for the federal district court closest to where the witness appears, will apply. For testimony by current DFC employees, you must pay witness fees, allowances, and expenses to the Vice-President/General Counsel by check made payable to the “US International Development Finance Corporation” within 30 days from receipt of DFC's billing statement. For the testimony of a former DFC employee, you must pay witness fees, allowances, and expenses directly to the former employee, in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821 or other applicable statutes.
(d)
Certification of records.
DFC may authenticate or certify records to facilitate their use as evidence. If you require authenticated records, you must request certified copies at least 45 days before the date they will be needed.
Send your request to the Vice-President/General Counsel. DFC will charge you a certification fee of $5.00 per document.
(e)
Waiver of fees.
A waiver or reduction of any fees in connection with the testimony, production, or certification or authentication of records may be granted in the discretion of the Vice-President/General Counsel. Waivers will not be granted routinely. If you request a waiver, your request for records or testimony must state the reasons why a waiver should be granted.
§ 713.9
If my request is granted, what restrictions may apply?
(a)
Records.
The Vice-President/General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of nonpublic records, including a requirement that you obtain a protective order or execute a confidentiality agreement with the other parties in the legal proceeding that limits access to and any further disclosure of the nonpublic records. The terms of a confidentiality agreement or protective order must be acceptable to the Vice-President/General Counsel. In cases where protective orders or confidentiality agreements have already been executed, DFC may condition the release of nonpublic records on an amendment to the existing protective order or confidentiality agreement.
(b)
Testimony.
The Vice-President/General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the testimony of DFC employees, including, for example, limiting the areas of testimony or requiring you and the other parties to the legal proceeding to agree that the transcript of the testimony will be kept under seal or will only be used or made available in the particular legal proceeding for which you requested the testimony. The Vice-President/General Counsel may also require you to provide a copy of the transcript of the testimony to DFC at your expense.
§ 713.10
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Legal proceedings
means any matter before any federal, state or foreign administrative or judicial authority, including courts, agencies, commissions, boards, grand juries, or other tribunals, involving such proceedings as lawsuits, licensing matters, hearings, trials, discovery, investigations, mediation or arbitration. When DFC is a party to a legal proceeding, it will be subject to the applicable rules of civil procedure governing production of documents and witnesses; however testimony and/or production of documents by DFC employees, as defined, will still be subject to this part.
Nonpublic records
means any DFC records which are exempt from disclosure by statute or under Part 706, DFC's regulations implementing the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. For example, this may include records created in connection with DFC's receipt, evaluation and action on actual and proposed DFC finance projects and insurance policies (whether such projects or policies were cancelled or not), including all reports, internal memoranda, opinions, interpretations, and correspondence, whether prepared by DFC employees or by persons under contract, as well as confidential business information submitted by parties seeking to do business with DFC. Whether DFC has actually chosen in practice to apply any exemption to specific documents is irrelevant to the question of whether they are “nonpublic” for the purposes of this Part.
DFC employee
means current and former officials, members of the Board of Directors, officers, directors, employees and agents of the US International Development Finance Corporation, including contract employees, consultants and their employees. This definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by DFC and are retained or hired as expert witnesses or agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment.
Subpoena
means any order, subpoena for records or other tangible things or for testimony, summons, notice or legal process issued in a legal proceeding.
Testimony
means any written or oral statements made by an individual in
connection with a legal proceeding, including personal appearances in court or at depositions, interviews in person or by telephone, responses to written interrogatories or other written statements such as reports, declarations, affidavits, or certifications or any response involving more than the delivery of records.
PARTS 714-799 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. IX (4-1-25 Edition)
Foreign Service Grievance Board

# CHAPTER IX—FOREIGN SERVICE GRIEVANCE BOARD
Part
Page
900
[Reserved]
901
General
243
902
Organization
245
903
Initiation and documentation of cases
245
904
Jurisdiction and preliminary determinations
247
905
Burden of proof
249
906
Hearings
249
907
Procedure when hearing is not held
251
908
Remedies
251
909
Decisionmaking
253
910
Miscellaneous
253
911
Implementation disputes
254
912-999
[Reserved]
PART 900 [RESERVED]
Pt. 901

# PART 901—GENERAL

# Subpart A—Purpose and Scope
Sec.
901.1
Purpose and scope.

# Subpart B—Meanings of Terms as Used in This Chapter
901.10
Act.
901.11
Agency.
901.12
Board.
901.13
Executive secretary.
901.14
Service.
901.15
Exclusive representative.
901.16
Grievant.
901.17
Charged employee.
901.18
Grievance.
901.19
Labor organization.
901.20
Party.
901.21
Record of proceedings.
901.22
Representative.

# Authority:
Secs. 610, 1101, 1102, 1105, and 1106 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4131, 4132, 4135, and 4136), as amended.

# Source:
50 FR 31353, Aug. 2, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Scope
§ 901.1
Purpose and scope.
The regulations contained in this chapter establish the internal organization of the Foreign Service Grievance Board and prescribe its procedures in:
(a) Determining its jurisdiction in cases involving grievances and separation for cause proceedings;
(b) Compiling a record in such cases;
(c) Conducting hearings in such cases, when required or deemed necessary; and
(d) Deciding such cases, or otherwise disposing of them, so as to ensure the fullest measure of due process for the members of the Foreign Service.

# Subpart B—Meanings of Terms As Used in This Chapter
§ 901.10
Act.
Act
means the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-465, October 17, 1980), as amended.
[56 FR 55458, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 901.11
Agency.
Agency
means the Department of State, the Agency for International Development, the U.S. Information Agency, the Department of Agriculture, or the Department of Commerce, if the Agency employs the individual appearing in a case before the Board and/or has control over the act, omission, or condition forming the subject matter of such case.
§ 901.12
Board.
Board
means the Foreign Service Grievance Board, including any designated panel or member thereof.
§ 901.13
Executive secretary.
Executive secretary
means the executive secretary of the Board or his or her designee.
§ 901.14
Service.
Service
means the Foreign Service of the United States.
§ 901.15
Exclusive representative.
Exclusive representative
means any labor organization which is certified as the exclusive representative of the bargaining unit of which the grievant or charged employee is a member.
§ 901.16
Grievant.
Grievant
means anyone who has filed a grievance and who is a member of the Service and is a citizen of the United States, or for the purposes of § 901.18(a)(7) a former member of the Service, or in the case of death of the member, the surviving spouse or, if none, another member of the family.
§ 901.17
Charged employee.
Charged employee
means a member of the Senior Foreign Service or a member of the Service assigned to a salary class who has been proposed for separation for cause under section 610(a)(2) of the Act.
§ 901.18
Grievance.
(a)
Grievance
means any act, omission, or condition subject to the control of an Agency which is alleged to deprive a member of the Service who is a citizen of the United States of a right
or benefit authorized by law or regulation or is otherwise a source of concern or dissatisfaction to the member, including but not limited to:
(1) Complaints against separation of a member allegedly contrary to law or regulation or predicated upon alleged inaccuracy, omission, error or falsely prejudicial character of information in any part of the official personnel record of the member;
(2) Other alleged violation, misinterpretation or misapplication of applicable law, regulation, collective bargaining agreement or published post or agency policy affecting the terms and conditions of the employment or career status of the member;
(3) Allegedly wrongful disciplinary action against the member;
(4) Dissatisfaction with respect to the working environment of the member;
(5) Alleged inaccuracy, omission, error, or falsely prejudicial character of information in the official personnel record of the member which is or could be prejudicial to the member;
(6) Action alleged to be in the nature of reprisal or other interference with freedom of action in connection with participation by a member in a grievance; and
(7) Alleged denial of an allowance, premium pay or other financial benefit to which the member claims entitlement under applicable laws or regulations.
(b) The scope of grievances described above may be modified by written agreement between an Agency and its exclusive representative.
(c) The term
grievance
does not include:
(1) Complaints against an individual assignment of a member under chapter 5 of the Act, other than an assignment which is alleged to be contrary to law or regulation;
(2) The judgment of a selection board (established under section 602 of the Act) or a tenure board (established under section 306(b) of the Act) or any other equivalent body established by laws or regulations which similarly evaluates the performance of members of the Service on a comparative basis, including a merit promotion selecting official, except that alleged procedural violations of law, regulation or collective bargaining agreement or prohibited personnel practice(s) arising under these procedures are grievable;
(3) The expiration of a limited appointment, termination of a limited appointment under section 611 of the Act, or the denial of a limited career extension or denial of a renewal of a limited career extension under section 607(b) of the Act; or
(4) Pursuant to section 1109 of the Act, any complaint or appeal where a specific statutory hearing procedure exists other than procedures for considering prohibited personnel practice charges before the Merit Systems Protection Board or Special Counsel (5 U.S.C. 1206).
(5) Non-adoption of a member suggestion or disapproval of a quality salary increase, performance award, or any other kind of honorary discretionary award, except where such action is alleged to be contrary to law, regulation or collective bargaining agreement; and
(6) The content of published agency policy which is not contrary to law, regulation or collective bargaining agreement.
(d) For the purposes of these regulations, the written complaint concerning any act, omission, or condition specified above may be referred to as the “grievance”.
[50 FR 31353, Aug. 2, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 55458, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 901.19
Labor organization.
Labor organization
means any employee organization accorded recognition as the exclusive employee representative under section 1002(11) of the Act. For the Department of State and the Agency for International Development (AID), the exclusive employee representative is the American Foreign Service Association; for the U.S. Information Agency (USIA), the exclusive employee representative is the American Federation of Government Employees, Local 1812 (AFL-CIO).
§ 901.20
Party.
Party
means—
(a) The grievant/charged employee;
(b) The Agency or Agencies employing the grievant/charged employee and/
or having control over the act, omission, or condition leading to appearance before the Board; or
(c) The exclusive representative if it has achieved party status under § 903.4.
A Party may act through its duly designated representative.
[50 FR 31353, Aug. 2, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 55458, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 901.21
Record of proceedings.
Record of proceedings
means the case file maintained by the Board on each grievance case, or separation for cause proceeding.
§ 901.22
Representative.
Representative
means the person(s) identified in writing to the Board as assisting the party or parties in the presentation of the case.
Pt. 902

# PART 902—ORGANIZATION
Sec.
902.1
Chairperson and deputy chairperson.
902.2
Board operations.
902.3
Board staff.

# Authority:
Secs. 1105 and 1106 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4135 and 4136), as amended.
§ 902.1
Chairperson and deputy chairperson.
The chairperson presides over meetings of the Board. The chairperson shall select one of the Board members as deputy. In the absence of the chairperson, the deputy chairperson, or in his or her absence, another member designated by the chairperson, may act for him or her.
[50 FR 31354, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 902.2
Board operations.
(a) The Board may operate either as a whole, or through panels or individual members designated by the chairperson.
(b) When operating as a whole, the Board may not act in the absence of a quorum. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The Board will act by a majority vote of those present. Amendments to these regulations and Board policies adopted pursuant to § 910.3 shall be adopted by the Board operating as a whole.
(c) Board panels and presiding members of panels shall be designated by the chairperson subject only to the provisions of § 906.4.
[50 FR 31354, Aug. 2, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 55459, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 902.3
Board staff.
The chairperson shall select the Board's executive secretary and other staff provided for in the Act. The executive secretary and staff shall be responsible only to the Board through the chairperson.
[50 FR 31354, Aug. 2, 1985]
Pt. 903

# PART 903—INITIATION AND DOCUMENTATION OF CASES
Sec.
903.1
Initiation of cases.
903.2
Record of proceedings.
903.3
Rulings on materials.
903.4
Participation of exclusive representative.
903.5
Service of documents.
903.6
Interrogatories.
903.7
Acknowledgment.
903.8
Withdrawal.
903.9
Access to records.
903.10
Access to witnesses.

# Authority:
Secs. 610, 1104, and 1106-1109 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4010, 4134, and 4136-4139), as amended.

# Source:
50 FR 31354, Aug. 2, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 903.1
Initiation of cases.
(a) Grievances submitted to the Board shall be in writing, and shall explain the nature of the grievance, and the remedy sought; shall contain all the documentation furnished to the Agency and the Agency's final review; and shall be timely filed in accordance with applicable regulations.
(b) A member whose grievance is not resolved satisfactorily under Agency procedures, the representative of the grievant, or the exclusive representative (on behalf of a grievant who is a member of the bargaining unit), shall be entitled to file a grievance with the Board no later than 60 days after receiving the Agency decision. In the event that an Agency has not provided its decision within 90 days of filing
with the Agency, the grievant, the representative of the grievant, or the exclusive representative (on the grievant's behalf) shall be entitled to file a grievance with the Board no later than 150 days after the date of filing with the Agency. The Board may extend or waive for good cause shown the time limits stated in this section, and may permit or request the views of the parties with respect to whether good cause has been shown for such an extension.
(c) Separation for cause proceedings against a charged employee shall be initiated before the Board by submission of a statement of the acts or behavior considered by the Agency to warrant separation.
§ 903.2
Record of proceedings.
Upon receipt of initial documents relating to a case, a record of proceedings shall be established, and all material received or obtained by the Board in connection with the case shall be placed in it unless the Board excludes such material under § 903.3. The parties and the exclusive representative, if any, shall have access to the record of proceedings. Classified portions of the record of proceedings may be reviewed by the parties and the exclusive representative, if any, under conditions prescribed by the Board to ensure appropriate security.
§ 903.3
Rulings on materials.
The Board may at any stage of the proceedings exclude materials from the record of proceedings at the request of a party or on its own initiative, on the grounds that such materials are irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitive.
§ 903.4
Participation of exclusive representative.
(a) Upon the initiation of a case, the executive secretary shall ascertain from the Agency, the grievant/charged employee and any labor organization which has been certified as the exclusive representative of employees of the Agency, whether the relevant position occupied by the grievant/charged employee is part of the bargaining unit for which the labor organization is the exclusive representative. If a substantial dispute exists as to whether that position is part of the bargaining unit, and if the Board determines that resolution of that dispute is necessary for determining the status of the labor organization in a case, the Board shall notify the parties and the labor organization, who may request the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board to make a final determination of that dispute. If the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board determines that the grievant or charged employee is a member of a bargaining unit represented by an exclusive representative, the executive secretary shall promptly send a copy of the papers filed with the Board to the exclusive representative.
(b) The exclusive representative has the right to intervene as a party to the case if such exclusive representative gives timely notice to the Board in writing of its decision to intervene as a party. Notice shall be considered to be timely if given prior to or at the prehearing conference, or, in a case to be decided under part 907 of this chapter, if given within 10 days of receipt of a notice from the Board of the Board's intent to close the record of proceedings.
(c) An exclusive representative which has not intervened under paragraph (b) of this section may be permitted to intervene as a party upon written application. In ruling upon the application, the Board shall consider whether granting the application will unduly delay or prejudice the adjudication of the rights of the original parties, and may place conditions on the exclusive representative's participation to avoid such delay or prejudice.
§ 903.5
Service of documents.
Any party submitting documents to the Board in connection with a case shall send a copy to the other parties and to the exclusive representative, if any. The Board shall send copies of its correspondence concerning the case to the parties and the exclusive representative, if any.
§ 903.6
Interrogatories.
Each party shall be entitled to serve interrogatories upon another party, and have such interrogatories answered by the other party unless the Board finds such interrogatories irrelevant,
immaterial, or unduly repetitive. Parties shall follow procedures established by the Board concerning the use of interrogatories.
§ 903.7
Acknowledgment.
Each case received shall be acknowledged in writing by the executive secretary of the Board. If in the judgment of the executive secretary additional documentation or information is needed, he or she may request such materials.
§ 903.8
Withdrawal.
A case may be withdrawn at any time by written notification to the Board from the party initiating the case. A case may be determined by the Board to have lapsed when the grievant fails to respond in writing to two successive written Board inquiries within any deadline fixed for such response. The Board may permit the reopening of lapsed cases upon a showing of good cause and may permit or request the views of the parties as to whether good cause has been shown.
§ 903.9
Access to records.
(a) If a party is denied access to any Agency record prior to or during the consideration of a case by the Agency, the party may protest such denial before the Board in connection with the case.
(b) In considering a case, the Board shall have access to any Agency record as follows:
(1) the Board shall request access to any Agency record which the grievant/charged employee requests to substantiate his or her grievance or defense to a charge if the Board determines that such record may be relevant and material to the case.
(2) the Board may request access to any other Agency record which the Board determines may be relevant and material to the case.
(3) An Agency shall make available to the Board any Agency record requested under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section unless the head or deputy head or such Agency personally certifies in writing to the Board that disclosure of the record to the Board and the parties would adversely affect the foreign policy or national security of the United States or that such disclosure is prohibited by law. If such a certification is made with respect to any record, the Agency shall supply to the Board a summary or extract of such record unless the reasons specified in the preceding sentence preclude such a summary or extract.
(c) If the Board determines that an Agency record, or a summary or extract of a record, made available to the Board under paragraph (b) of this section is relevant and material to the case, the Agency concerned shall make such record, summary, or extract, as the case may be, available to the parties.
(d) In considering a case, the Board may take into account the fact that the parties or the Board were denied access to any Agency record which the Board determines is or may be relevant and material to the case.
(e) The parties in any case decided by the Board shall have access to the record of proceedings and the decision of the Board.
§ 903.10
Access to witnesses.
The grievant or grievant's representative, or charged employee or his representative, shall be given access to witnesses employed by the foreign affairs agencies. In the event that the agency of the grievant determines that the requests for access are excessive, it may so notify the Board, which shall rule on the relevance and materiality of the potential testimony and may order that access be granted to any or all of the potential witnesses. It shall be the responsibility of the grievant to advise the agency of the agency witnesses to be interviewed and to request administrative leave.
Pt. 904

# PART 904—JURISDICTION AND PRELIMINARY DETERMINATIONS
Sec.
904.1
General.
904.2
Preliminary determinations.
904.3
Relationship to other remedies.
904.4
Suspension of agency actions.

# Authority:
Secs. 1101, 1104, 1108, and 1109 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4131, 4134, 4138, and 4139), as amended.
§ 904.1
General.
The Board's jurisdiction extends to any grievance, and to any separation for cause proceeding initiated pursuant to section 610(a)(2) of the Act.
[50 FR 31355, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 904.2
Preliminary determinations.
(a) If an Agency, in its final review, has questioned whether a complaint constitutes a grievance, the Board will make a preliminary determination of its jurisdiction unless the Board concludes that resolution of the question of jurisdiction should be deferred until the Board has compiled a record of proceedings or held a hearing on the merits of the case.
(b) The Board may also make a preliminary determination on any question raised by a Party concerning the timeliness of a grievance, the election of other remedies under § 904.3, or any other issue whose resolution might avoid the necessity of further proceedings.
(c) Before making a preliminary determination under this section, the Board shall obtain the views of the other parties and transmit those views to all parties.
(d) Where an issue presented for preliminary determination under this section is contested by a party or would result in the termination of a case, a panel of three members of the Board shall decide the issue.
[50 FR 31355, Aug. 2, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 55459, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 904.3
Relationship to other remedies.
(a) A grievant may not file a grievance with the Board if the grievant has formally requested, prior to filing a grievance, that the matter or matters which are the basis of the grievance be considered or resolved and relief provided under another provision of law, regulation, or executive order, and the matter has been carried to final decision under such provision on its merits or is still under consideration. This provision shall not apply to grievants who have filed a prohibited personnel practice charge before the Special Counsel for the Merit Systems Protection Board.
(b) If a grievant is not prohibited from filing a grievance under paragraph (a) of this section, the grievant may file with the Board a grievance which is also eligible for consideration, resolution, and relief as a prohibited personnel practice complaint under the provisions of law relating to the Merit Systems Protection Board or Special Counsel, or under a regulation or executive order. An election of remedies under this section shall be final upon the acceptance of jurisdiction by the Board.
[50 FR 31355, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 904.4
Suspension of agency actions.
(a) If the Board determines that the agency is considering involuntary separation of the Grievant, disciplinary action against the Grievant, or recovery from the Grievant of alleged overpayment of salary, expenses, or allowances, which is related to a grievance pending before the Board, and that such action should be suspended, the agency shall suspend such action until the Board has ruled on the grievance. Notwithstanding such suspension of action, the head of the agency concerned or a chief of mission or principal officer may exclude the Grievant from official premises or from the performance of specified functions when such exclusion is determined in writing to be essential to the functioning of the post or office to which the Grievant is assigned.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Board shall not determine that action to suspend without pay a Grievant shall be suspended if the head of an agency or his designee has determined that there is reasonable cause to believe that a Grievant has committed a job-related crime for which a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed and has taken action to suspend the Grievant without pay pending a final resolution of the underlying matter. For this purpose, reasonable cause to believe that a member has committed a crime for which a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed shall be defined as a member of the Service having been convicted of, and sentence of imprisonment having been imposed for a job-related crime.
(c) The Board shall expedite its decisions on requested suspensions of proposed Agency actions. The Board may permit or require argument with respect to such requests by the Parties and Exclusive Representative, if any.
[56 FR 55459, Oct. 28, 1991]
Pt. 905

# PART 905—BURDEN OF PROOF
Sec.
905.1
Grievances other than disciplinary actions.
905.2
Disciplinary grievances.
905.3
Separation for cause.

# Authority:
Secs. 610 and 1106 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4010 and 4136), as amended.
§ 905.1
Grievances other than disciplinary actions.
(a) In all grievances other than those concerning disciplinary actions, the grievant has the burden of establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the grievance is meritorious.
(b) Where a grievant establishes that an evaluation contained falsely prejudicial material which may have been a substantial factor in an agency action, and the question is presented whether the agency would have taken the same action had the evaluation not contained that material, the burden will shift to the agency to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that it would have done so.
(c) Where a grievant establishes that a procedural error occurred which is of such a nature that it may have been a substantial factor in an agency action with respect to the grievant, and the question is presented whether the agency would have taken the same action had the procedural error not occurred, the burden will shift to the agency to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that it would have done so.
[50 FR 31356, Aug. 2, 1985]
§ 905.2
Disciplinary grievances.
In grievances over disciplinary actions, the agency has the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that the disciplinary action was justified, provided, however, that in a grievance concerning suspension without pay pursuant to section 610(a)(3) of the Act, the Board's determination of the grievance shall be limited to:
(a) Whether the required procedures have been followed; and
(b) Whether there exists reasonable cause to believe a crime has been committed for which a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed and there is a nexus between the conduct and the efficiency of the Service.
For this purpose, reasonable cause to believe that a member has committed a crime for which a sentence of imprisonment may be imposed shall be defined as a member of the Service having been convicted of, and sentence of imprisonment having been imposed for, a job-related crime.
[56 FR 55459, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 905.3
Separation for cause.
In separation for cause cases, the agency has the burden of establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the proposed separation is for such cause as will promote the efficiency of the service.
[50 FR 31356, Aug. 2, 1985]
Pt. 906

# PART 906—HEARINGS
Sec.
906.1
Decision whether to hold a hearing.
906.2
Mandatory hearing.
906.3
Notification.
906.4
Hearing panels and members.
906.5
Prehearing conferences.
906.6
Powers of presiding member.
906.7
Conduct of hearing.
906.8
Witnesses.
906.9
Failure of party to appear.

# Authority:
Secs. 610 and 1106 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4010 and 4136), as amended.

# Source:
50 FR 31356, Aug. 2, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 906.1
Decision whether to hold a hearing.
After deciding either to accept jurisdiction over a grievance or to postpone decision of that question under § 904.2(a) of this chapter, the Board will make an initial determination of whether a hearing shall be held in accordance with part 906 of this chapter,
or whether the grievance shall be resolved without a hearing in accordance with part 907 of this chapter. The Board may reconsider its decision as to holding a hearing upon the written request of any party or on its own initiative.
§ 906.2
Mandatory hearing.
The Board shall conduct a hearing—(a) At the request of the grievant in any case which involves disciplinary action or a grievant's retirement from the Service for expiration of time-in-class or based on relative performance, or (b) In any case which in the judgment of the Board can best be resolved by a hearing or presentation of oral argument. The Board shall also conduct a hearing in separation for cause proceedings unless the charged employee waives in writing his or her right to such hearing.
§ 906.3
Notification.
When the Board orders a hearing, the executive secretary shall so notify the parties in writing. The parties shall be given reasonable notice of the date and place selected by the Board for the hearing.
§ 906.4
Hearing panels and members.
Unless the Board and the parties agree otherwise, all hearings shall be held before a panel of at least three members.
§ 906.5
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The Board may in its discretion order a prehearing conference of the parties (which may be presided over by any member) for the purpose of considering:
(1) Simplification or clarification of the issues;
(2) Serving of interrogatories;
(3) Stipulations, admissions, agreements on documents, matters already on record, or similar agreements which will avoid the necessity of proving facts or issues not in dispute;
(4) Identification of witnesses the parties may wish to call and the intended scope of their testimony; limitation on the number of witnesses; and arrangement for the appearance of witnesses;
(5) Avoidance of irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitive testimony;
(6) The possibility of disposition of the case through agreement;
(7) The order of presentation at the hearing and the allocation of the burden of proof; and
(8) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the case.
(b) The parties authorized to attend the hearing may attend the prehearing conference.
(c) The results of the conference shall be summarized in writing by the Board and made a part of the record of proceedings. Copies of the summary shall be sent to the parties. The parties may submit comments or corrections on the summary.
§ 906.6
Powers of presiding member.
In connection with the hearing, the presiding member shall, as appropriate:
(a) Fix the time and place of the hearing;
(b) Order further conferences;
(c) Regulate the course of the hearing;
(d) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(e) Dispose of procedural requests and similar matters;
(f) Rule on admissibility of testimony and exhibits;
(g) Exclude any person from the hearing for behavior that obstructs the hearing;
(h) Authorize and set the time for the filing of briefs or other documents;
(i) Grant continuances and extensions of time;
(j) Reopen the record;
(k) Take any other action in the course of the proceedings consistent with the purpose of this part.
§ 906.7
Conduct of hearing.
(a)
Authorized attendance.
The parties and, as determined by the Board, a reasonable number of representatives of the parties are entitled to be present at the hearing. The Board may, after considering the views of the parties and of any other individuals connected with the grievance, decide that a hearing should be open to others. No person shall be permitted to attend the hearing when classified material is being discussed unless that person possesses the appropriate security clearance.
(b)
Procedure.
Hearings shall be conducted by the presiding member so as to assure a full and fair proceeding. The Board shall not be limited by the legal rules of evidence. However, the presiding member shall exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitive evidence. The Board may require the parties to designate one of their representatives as principal spokesperson.
(c)
Order of presentation.
In cases involving disciplinary action, including separation for cause cases, the Agency will ordinarily present its case first and will retain that order of precedence throughout the hearing. In other cases the grievant will ordinarily present his or her case first and will retain that order of precedence throughout the hearing.
(d)
Evidence.
Subject to the presiding member's rulings on the relevancy, materiality, and repetitious nature of evidence, the parties may offer such evidence, including interrogatories, depositions and Agency records as they desire. The shall produce such additional evidence as the presiding member shall consider relevant and material. Where deemed appropriate by the Board, the parties may be supplied only with a summary or extract of classified material (also see § 903.9 of this chapter).
(e)
Testimony.
Testimony at a hearing shall be given under oath or affirmation.
(f)
Transcript.
A verbatim transcript shall be made of any hearing and shall be part of the record of proceedings.
§ 906.8
Witnesses.
(a)
General.
Each party shall be entitled to examine and cross-examine witnesses at the hearing or by deposition. A party wishing to take the deposition of a witness shall give the other parties reasonable notice of the time and place of the deposition and of the identity of the witness.
(b)
Availability.
Upon request of the Board or upon request of the grievant/charged employee deemed relevant and material by the Board, an Agency shall promptly make available at the hearing or by deposition any witness under its control, supervision or responsibility. If the Board determines that the actual presence of such witness at the hearing is required for just resolution of the case, the witness shall be made available at the hearing, with necessary costs and travel expenses paid by the Agency which is a party to the hearing.
(c)
Notice.
The parties are responsible for notifying their witnesses and for arranging for their appearance at the time and place set for the hearing. The Board may preclude a witness from testifying because of the failure of the party responsible for witness' appearance to comply with this section.
§ 906.9
Failure of party to appear.
The hearing may proceed in the absence of any party who, after due notice and without good cause, fails to be present or obtain an adjournment.
Pt. 907

# PART 907—PROCEDURE WHEN HEARING IS NOT HELD

# Authority:
Sec. 1106 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4136), as amended.
§ 907.1
General.
(a) In a case in which a hearing is not required under § 906.1 of this chapter, the Board may request in writing that specified documents or other evidence be furnished to it and/or may authorize the executive secretary to obtain such additional documents or other evidence as may be necessary to understand and decide the case.
(b) Each party will be offered the opportunity to review and to supplement, by written submissions, the record of proceedings, prior to the date fixed by the Board for closing of the Record. The Board shall then consider the case and make a decision based on that Record. This may include the ordering of a hearing in accordance with part 906.
[50 FR 31357, Aug. 2, 1985]
Pt. 908

# PART 908—REMEDIES
Sec.
908.1
Board orders.
908.2
Attorney fees.
908.3
Board recommendations.

# Authority:
Secs. 1106 and 1107 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 610, 4010, 4136, and 4137).
§ 908.1
Board orders.
If the Board finds that a grievance is meritorious, the Board shall have the authority to direct the Agency:
(a) To correct any official personnel record relating to the grievant which the Board finds to be inaccurate or erroneous, to have an omission, or to contain information of a falsely prejudicial character;
(b) To reverse a decision denying the grievant compensation or any other perquisite of employment authorized by laws or regulations when the Board finds that such decision was arbitrary, capricious, or contrary to laws or regulations;
(c) To retain in the Service a member whose separation would be in consequence of the matter by which the member is aggrieved;
(d) To reinstate the grievant, and to grant the grievant back pay, where it is established that the separation or suspension without pay of the employee was unjustified or unwarranted under the Back Pay Act (5 U.S.C. 5596(b)(1));
(e) To take any corrective action deemed appropriate by the Board provided it is not contrary to law or collective bargaining agreement.
[50 FR 31357, Aug. 2, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 55459, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 908.2
Attorney fees.
(a) If the Board finds that a grievance is meritorious or that an Agency has not established the cause for separation of a charged employee in a hearing before the Board pursuant to section 610 of the Act, the Board shall have the authority to direct the Agency to pay reasonable attorney fees to the same extent and in the same manner as such fees may be required by the Merit Systems Protection Board under 5 U.S.C. 7701(g).
(b) Requests for attorney fees, accompanied by supporting documentation, must be filed with the Board within thirty (30) days of the date of the Board's decision.
[56 FR 55459, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 908.3
Board recommendations.
(a) If the Board finds that the grievance is meritorious and that remedial action should be taken that relates directly to promotion, tenure, or assignment of the Grievant or to other remedial action not otherwise provided for in this section, or if the Board finds that the evidence in a grievance proceeding warrants disciplinary action against any employee of an Agency, it shall make an appropriate recommendation to the head of the concerned Agency.
(b) The head of the Agency shall make a written decision on the recommendation of the Board within 30 days after receiving the recommendation and shall implement the recommendation of the Board except to the extent that the head of the Agency rejects the recommendation in whole or in part on the basis of a determination that implementation of the recommendation would be contrary to law or would adversely affect the foreign policy or national security of the United States. If the head of the Agency rejects the recommendation in whole or in part, the decision shall specify the reasons for such action. Copies of the decision shall be served on the other parties. Pending the decision of the head of the Agency, there shall be no ex parte communication concerning the grievance between the head of the Agency and any person involved in the proceedings of the Board. The head of the Agency shall, however, have access to the entire Record of the Proceedings of the Board.
(c) A recommendation under this section shall, for the purposes of section 1110 of the Act, be considered a final action upon the expiration of a 30-day period referred to in paragraph (b) of this section, except to the extent that it is rejected by the head of the Agency by an appropriate written decision.
(d)(1) If the head of the Agency makes a written decision under paragraph (b) of this section rejecting a recommendation in whole or in part on the basis of a determination that implementing such recommendation would be contrary to law, the head of the Agency shall, within the 30-day period referred to in paragraph (b) of this section:
(i) Submit a copy of such decision to the Board; and
(ii) Request that the Board reconsider its recommendation or, if less than the entirety is rejected, that the Board reconsider the portion rejected.
(2) Within 30 days after receiving such a request, the Board shall, after reviewing the head of the Agency's decision, make a recommendation to the head of the agency confirming, modifying, or vacating its original recommendation or, if less than the entirety was rejected, the portion involved. Reconsideration shall be limited to the question of whether implementing the Board's original recommendation, either in whole or in part, as applicable, would be contrary to law.
(e) A Board recommendation made under the preceding paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be considered a final action for the purpose of section 1110 of the Act, and shall be implemented by the head of the Agency.
(f) The provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section shall not apply with respect to any grievance in which the Board has issued a final decision pursuant to section 1107 of the Act before December 22, 1987.
[50 FR 31357, Aug. 2, 1985. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 55459, Oct. 28, 1991]
Pt. 909

# PART 909—DECISIONMAKING
Sec.
909.1
Basis.
909.2
Board order.
909.3
Board recommendation.
909.4
Other decision.
909.5
Time limits for compliance.
909.6
Summaries of Board decisions.

# Authority:
Secs. 1106 and 1107, Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-465; 22 U.S.C. 4136 and 4137).

# Source:
50 FR 31358, Aug. 2, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 909.1
Basis.
Decisions of the Board shall be based upon the record of proceedings, shall be in writing, shall include findings of fact, and shall include a statement of the reasons for the decision.
§ 909.2
Board order.
Where the Board's decision imposes action on an Agency the decision shall be in the form of a remedial order addressed to the designated official of the Agency. A copy of the decision shall be supplied to each party.
§ 909.3
Board recommendation.
Where the Board's decision is a recommendation, it shall be directed to the head of the Agency. A copy of the decision shall be supplied to each party.
§ 909.4
Other decision.
Where the Board's decision requires no action by an Agency, the decision shall be forwarded to the grievant. A copy of the decision shall be supplied to each party.
§ 909.5
Time limits for compliance.
Orders of the Board and recommendations which are not rejected in accordance with § 908.2 of this chapter shall be complied with within any time limits for compliance established by the Board's decision, unless the Board extends the time limit on a showing of good cause.
§ 909.6
Summaries of Board decisions.
The Board may, from time to time, issue such summaries and expurgated versions of its decisions as it may consider necessary to permit the Agencies, the exclusive representative organization(s), and the members of the Service to become aware of the general nature of the cases it has received and their manner of disposition, without invading the privacy of the grievants.
Pt. 910

# PART 910—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec.
910.1
Requests to reopen cases.
910.2
Ex parte communications.
910.3
Board policy statements.
910.4
Confidentiality; Record of grievances awarded.
910.5
Judicial review.
910.6
Pending grievances.

# Authority:
Secs. 1106, 1107, 1110, and 2401 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4136, 4137, 4140, and 4172).
§ 910.1
Requests to reopen cases.
The Board may reconsider any decision upon the presentation of newly
discovered or previously unavailable material evidence.
[50 FR 31358, Aug. 2, 1985. Redesignated at 56 FR 55460, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 910.2
Ex parte communications.
(a) “Ex parte communications” are oral or written communications between the Board or its staff and an interested party to a proceeding which are made without providing the other parties a chance to participate.
(b) Ex parte communications concerning the merits of any matter which has or may come before the Board for adjudication or which would otherwise contravene the rules regarding written submissions are prohibited until the Board renders a final decision. Any communication made in contravention of this rule shall be made a part of the record and an opportunty for rebuttal allowed. If the communication was oral, a memorandum stating the substance of the discussion shall be placed in the record.
(c) This rule does not apply to communications concerning such matters as the status of a case, the methods for transmitting evidence to the Board, and other procedural matters which do not concern the merits of any matter before the Board for adjudication and which do not otherwise contravene the rules regarding written submissions.
[50 FR 31358, Aug. 2, 1985. Redesignated at 56 FR 55460, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 910.3
Board policy statements.
The Board may publish statements regarding policies it has established as to its operations and procedures.
[50 FR 31358, Aug. 2, 1985. Redesignated at 56 FR 55460, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 910.4
Confidentiality; Record of grievances awarded.
(a) To the maximum extent practicable, the Board will make every effort to preserve the confidentiality of the identity of the grievant or charged employee.
(b) The records of the Board shall be maintained by the Board under appropriate safeguards to preserve confidentiality and shall be separate from all records of the Agencies; provided, however, that records of all grievances awarded in favor of the Grievant in which the grievance concerns gross misconduct by a supervisor shall be separately maintained by the Board and the procedures regarding confidentiality and disclosure of such records shall be as provided in section 1107(e) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, as amended; and provided further, that the Board shall not make a finding of gross misconduct without first providing the supervisor whose conduct is at issue notice and an opportunity to respond.
[50 FR 31358, Aug. 2, 1985. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 55460, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 910.5
Judicial review.
Any aggrieved party may obtain judicial review of a final action of an Agency head or the Board on any grievance in the district courts of the United States in accordance with the standards set forth in chapter 7 of title 5 of the United States Code. 5 U.S.C. 706 shall apply without limitation or exception.
[50 FR 31358, Aug. 2, 1985. Redesignated at 56 FR 55460, Oct. 28, 1991]
§ 910.6
Pending grievances.
Any grievance pending before the Board prior to February 15, 1981 shall be resolved under the provisions of the Foreign Service Act of 1946 as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
[50 FR 31358, Aug. 2, 1985. Redesignated at 56 FR 55460, Oct. 28, 1991]
Pt. 911

# PART 911—IMPLEMENTATION DISPUTES
Sec.
911.1
Definition.
911.2
Filing complaint.
911.3
Procedure.
911.4
Effect of Board decision.
911.5
Arbitrability of determination.
911.6
Finality of choice.
911.7
Review.

# Authority:
Sec. 1014 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-465 (22 U.S.C. 4114), as amended.

# Source:
50 FR 31359, Aug. 2, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 911.1
Definition.
An implementation dispute is any dispute between the agency and the exclusive representative, as provided in regulations adopted as a result of collective bargaining between the agencies and the employee representatives. Such a dispute, also referred to as an institutional dispute, is one which directly concerns the rights and obligations of an agency and an exclusive representative toward each other or the rights or obligations between an agency and one or more employees as set forth in a collective bargaining agreement.
§ 911.2
Filing complaint.
If the dispute is not satisfactorily resolved at the agency level, the moving party may file a complaint within 45 calendar days from the date of the response (or in any case must file within 90 days of filing the implementation dispute) with the Board in writing and with specificity as to the nature of the violation.
§ 911.3
Procedure.
Implementation disputes shall be handled by the Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in parts 901-910 of this chapter.
§ 911.4
Effect of Board decision.
The action of the Board shall be final and binding and shall be implemented by the parties, unless an exception is filed with the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board within 30 days after receipt of the Grievance Board action.
§ 911.5
Arbitrability of determination.
Questions that cannot be resolved by the parties as to whether a complaint is subject to this procedure may be referred by either party to the Grievance Board for a threshold determination.
§ 911.6
Finality of choice.
An alleged violation of an institutional right as reflected in a collective bargaining agreement may be filed under these procedures or as an unfair labor practice, but not both.
§ 911.7
Review.
Resolution of disputes under this section shall not be subject to judicial review.
PARTS 912-999 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. X (4-1-25 Edition)
Inter-American Foundation

# CHAPTER X—INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION
Part
Page
1000
[Reserved]
1001
Employee responsibilities and conduct
259
1002
Availability of records
259
1003
Rules safeguarding personal information in IAF records
261
1004
Rules for implementing open meetings within the Inter-American Foundation
267
1005
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Inter-American Foundation
270
1006
Governmentwide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement)
276
1007
Salary offset
299
1008
Governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
303
1009-1099
[Reserved]
PART 1000 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1001

# PART 1001—EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301.
§ 1001.1
Cross-references to employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.
Directors and other employees of the Inter-American Foundation should refer to the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch at 5 CFR part 2635, the Inter-American Foundation regulations at 5 CFR part 7301 which supplement the executive branch standards, and the executive branch financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634.
[59 FR 3772, Jan. 27, 1994]
Pt. 1002

# PART 1002—AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
Sec.
1002.1
Introduction.
1002.2
Definitions.
1002.3
Access to Foundation records.
1002.4
Written requests.
1002.5
Records available at the Foundation.
1002.6
Records of other Departments and Agencies.
1002.7
Fees.
1002.8
Exemptions.
1002.9
Denial of records; review.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552, and 31 U.S.C. 483(a).

# Source:
37 FR 8375, Apr. 26, 1972, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1002.1
Introduction.
(a) It is the policy of the Inter-American Foundation that information about its operations, procedures, and records be freely available to the public in accordance with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.
(b) The Foundation will make the fullest possible disclosure of its information and identifiable records consistent with the provisions of this Act and the regulations in this part.
§ 1002.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following words have the meaning set forth below:
Act.
“Act” means the Act of June 5, 1967, sometimes referred to as the “Freedom of Information Act” or the Public Information Section of the Administrative Procedure Act, as amended, Pub. L. 90-23, 81 Stat. 54, and codified at 5 U.S.C. 552.
Foundation.
“Foundation” means the Inter-American Foundation.
President.
“President” means the President of the Foundation.
Records.
The word “records” includes all books, papers, or other documentary materials made or received by the Foundation in connection with the transaction of its business which have been preserved or are appropriate for preservation by the Foundation as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities, or because of the informational value of data contained therein. Library or other material acquired and preserved solely for reference or exhibition purposes, and stocks of publications and processed documents are not included within the definition of the word “records.”
§ 1002.3
Access to Foundation records.
Any person desiring to have access to Foundation records should call or apply in person between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays (holidays excluded) at the Foundation offices at 901 N. Stuart St., 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203. Requests for access should be made to the General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel () at the Foundation offices. If request is made for copies of any record, the General Counsel's Office will assist the person making such request in seeing that such copies are provided according to the rules in this part.
[37 FR 8375, Apr. 26, 1972, as amended at 71 FR 63235, Oct. 30, 2006]
§ 1002.4
Written requests.
In order to facilitate the processing of written requests, every petitioner should:
(a) Address his request to:
General Counsel, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart St., 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203.
(b) Identify the desired record by name or brief description, or number,
and date, as applicable. The identification should be specific enough so that a record can be readily identified and found;
(c) Include a check or money order to the order of the “Inter-American Foundation” covering the appropriate search and copying fees, or request a determination of fee;
(d) Allow a reasonable amount of time for reply. Furnishing the requested information will involve search and retrieval of records, copying and mailing;
(e) Blanket requests or requests for “the entire file of” or “all matters relating to” a specified subject will not be accepted.
[37 FR 8375, Apr. 26, 1972, as amended at 71 FR 63236, Oct. 30, 2006]
§ 1002.5
Records available at the Foundation.
The General Counsel's Office will make available, to the extent not authorized to be withheld, the following works or classes of information:
(a) A copy of Agency regulations, including a copy of title 22 of the Code of Federal Regulations, or of any other title of the Code in which Agency regulations may have been published;
(b) Final unclassified reports;
(c) Copies of grants, loans, or other agreements in force;
(d) Personnel information affecting the public;
(e) Procurement information affecting the public;
(f) Contracts;
(g) Reimbursable agreements with other agencies.
[37 FR 8375, Apr. 26, 1972, as amended at 71 FR 63236, Oct. 30, 2006]
§ 1002.6
Records of other Departments and Agencies.
Requests for records that have been originated by or are primarily the concern of another U.S. Department or Agency will be forwarded to the particular Department of Agency involved, and the petitioner notified. In response to requests for records or publications published by the Government Printing Office or other Government printing activity, the Foundation will refer the petitioner to the appropriate sales office and refund any fee payments therefor which accompany the request.
§ 1002.7
Fees.
Except as otherwise specifically provided by the Foundation, a fee will be levied for all searches for, or copies of, records. These fees will be computed so as to recover the full cost of searching and copying.
(a)
Advance payment and deposits.
When the amount of a fee can be readily computed (as, for example, when a specified number of copy pages are requested) advance payment will be required. When the amount cannot be readily computed (as, for example, when an unknown amount of stafftime must be used in complying with a request), the General Counsel may require payment of a reasonable deposit before undertaking to collect the requested records. At the earliest practicable time, the General Counsel will determine the full amount of the fee and, before complying fully with the request, will require payment of any balance due or refund any overpayment.
(b)
Schedule of fees.
The following fees apply for services rendered to the public:
(1) Searching for records and collateral assistance, per hour or fraction thereof
$5.00
(2) Making copies (Xerox or comparable) per page
0.40
Should a situation arise which is not covered by the above schedule, the fee to be charged will include all direct and indirect costs of the service, including but not limited to materials, labor, and the like. The amount of the fee including charges, if any, for records printed by contractors or grantees will be determined by the A
F Director.
(c)
Revision of schedule.
The fee schedule will be revised from time to time, without notice, to assure recovery of the cost of rendering information services to any person. The revised schedule will be available without charge.
[37 FR 8375, Apr. 26, 1972, as amended at 71 FR 63236, Oct. 30, 2006]
§ 1002.8
Exemptions.
The Act authorizes exemption from disclosure of records and information concerning matters that are:
(a) Specifically required by Executive order to be exempt from disclosure in the interest of the national defense or foreign policy;
(b) Related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices by the Foundation;
(c) Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute;
(d) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from any person which is privileged or confidential;
(e) Interagency or intra-agency memoranda or letters which would not be available by law to a private party in litigation with the Foundation;
(f) Personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(g) Investigatory files (including security investigation files and files concerning the conduct of employees) compiled for law enforcement purposes except to the extent available by law to a private party.
The Foundation will not honor requests for exempt records or information.
§ 1002.9
Denial of records; review.
If a request for records is denied, the person who made the request is entitled to have the denial reviewed by the Foundation President as promptly as circumstances permit. If the President determines that the withholding is improper, he will direct in writing that the requested records be made available in accordance with these regulations. If he determines that the withholding is proper, he will so notify such person in writing, and his determination will constitute the final Foundation decision.
Pt. 1003

# PART 1003—RULES SAFEGUARDING PERSONAL INFORMATION IN IAF RECORDS
Sec.
1003.1
General policies, conditions of disclosure, accounting of certain disclosures, and definitions.
1003.2
Definitions.
1003.3
Access to records.
1003.4
Inter-American Foundation system of records requirements.
1003.5
Access to personal information from Inter-American Foundation records.
1003.6
Administrative review.
1003.7
Judicial review.
1003.8
Exemptions.
1003.9
Mailing lists.
1003.10
Reports.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Source:
41 FR 19211, May 11, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1003.1
General policies, conditions of disclosure, accounting of certain disclosures, and definitions.
(a) The Inter-American Foundation will safeguard an individual against an invasion of personal privacy. Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation its officials and employees will:
(1) Permit an individual to determine what records pertaining to him or her will be collected, maintained, used, or disseminated by the Inter-American Foundation.
(2) Permit an individual to prevent records pertaining to him or her, obtained by the Inter-American Foundation for a particular purpose, from being used or made available for another purpose without his or her consent.
(3) Permit an individual to gain access to information pertaining to him or her in the Inter-American Foundation records, to have a copy made of all or any portion thereof, and to correct or amend such records.
(4) Collect, maintain, use or disseminate any record of identifiable personal information in a manner that assures that such action is for a necessary and lawful purpose, that the information is correct and accurate for its intended use, and that adequate safeguards are provided to prevent misuse of such information.
(5) Permit exemptions from records requirements provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a only where an important public policy need for such exemption has been determined pursuant to specific statutory authority.
(b) The Inter-American Foundation will not disclose any record contained in a system of records by any means of communication to any person or any other agency except by written request of or prior written consent of the individual to whom the record pertains unless such disclosure is:
(1) To those officers and employees of the agency which maintains the record and who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties;
(2) Required under 5 U.S.C. 552;
(3) For a routine use of the record compatible with the purpose for which it was collected;
(4) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to title 13, United States Code;
(5) To a recipient who has provided the Inter-American Foundation with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable;
(6) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the U.S. Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of General Services or designee to determine whether the record has such value;
(7) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authority by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the Inter-American foundation specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought;
(8) To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if upon such disclosure notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual;
(9) To either House of Congress, or, to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee;
(10) To the Comptroller General, or any authorized representatives in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office; or
(11) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c) With respect to each system of records (i.e., a group of records from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual) under Inter-American foundation control the Inter-American Foundation will (except for disclosures made under paragraph (b) (1) or (2) of this section) keep an accurate accounting as follows:
(1) For each disclosure of a record to any person or to another agency made under paragraph (b) of this section, maintain information consisting of the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure, and the name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure is made;
(2) Retain the accounting made under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for at least 5 years or the life of the record, whichever is longer, after the disclosures for which the accounting is made;
(3) Except for disclosures made under paragraph (b)(7) of this section, make the accounting under paragraph (c)(1) of this section available to the individual named in the record at his or her request; and
(4) Inform any person or other agency about any correction or notation of dispute made by the agency of any record that has been disclosed to the person or agency if an accounting of the disclosure was made.
(d) The parent of any minor, or the legal guardian of any individual who has been declared incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction, may act on behalf of the individual.
(e) Section 552a(e), title 5, United States Code, provided that:
(1) Any officer or employee of the Inter-American Foundation, who by virtue of his or her employment or official position, has possession of, or access to, Inter-American Foundation records which contain individually identifiable information the disclosure of which is prohibited by 5 U.S.C. 552a and who knowing that disclosure of the specific material is so prohibied, willfully discloses the material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
(2) Any officer or employee of the Inter-American Foundation who willfully maintains a system of records without meeting the notice requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
(3) Any person who knowingly and willfully requests or obtains any record concerning an individual from the Inter-American Foundation under false pretenses shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
§ 1003.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply:
(a) The term
agency
includes any executive department, military department, Government corporation, Government controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the government (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
(b) The term
individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(c) The term
maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
(d) The term
record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, his or her educational, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his or her name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.
(e) The term
system of records
means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
(f) The term
statistical record
means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual except as provided by section 8 of title 13, United States Code.
(g) The term
routine use
means, with respect to the disclosure or a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.
§ 1003.3
Access to records.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation any individual upon request may gain access to his or her record or to any information pertaining to him or her which is contained in any system or records maintained by the Inter-American Foundation. The individual will be permitted, and upon his or her request, a person of his or her own choosing permitted to accompany him or her, to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to him or her. The Inter-American foundation will require, however, a written statement from the individual authorizing discussion of that individual's record in the accompanying person's presence.
(b) Any individual may request amendment of any Inter-American Foundation record pertaining to him or her. Not later than 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the date of receipt of such request, the Inter-American Foundation will acknowledge in writing such receipt. The Inter-American Foundation will also promptly either:
(1) Correct any part thereof which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete; or
(2) Inform the individual of the Inter-American Foundation's refusal to amend the record in accordance with his or her request, the reason for the refusal, the procedures by which the individual may request a review of that refusal by the Administrator or designee, and the name and address of such official.
(c) Any individual who disagrees with the Inter-American Foundation's refusal to amend his or her record may request a review of such refusal. The Inter-American Foundation will complete such review not later than 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) from the date on which the individual requests
such review and make a final determination unless, for good cause shown, the Administrator extends such 30-day period. If, after review, the Administrator or designee also refuses to amend the record in accordance with the request the individual will be advised of the right to file with the Inter-American Foundation a concise statement setting forth the reasons for his or her disagreement with the Inter-American Foundation's refusal, and also advised of the provisions for judicial review of the reviewing official's determination (5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A)).
(d) In any disclosure, containing information about which the individual has filed a statement of disagreement, occurring after the filing of the statement under paragraph (c) of this section, the Inter-American Foundation will clearly note any part of the record which is disputed and provide copies of the statement (and, if the Inter-American Foundation deems it appropriate, copies also of a concise statement of the Inter-American Foundation's reasons for not making the amendments requested) to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record has been disclosed.
(e) Nothing in 5 U.S.C. 552a, however, allows an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
[41 FR 19211, May 11, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 37368, July 21, 1977]
§ 1003.4
Inter-American Foundation system of records requirements.
(a) The Inter-American Foundation will maintain in its records any such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the Inter-American Foundation required to be accomplished by statute or Executive order of the President.
(b) The Inter-American Foundation will collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs.
(c) The Inter-American Foundation will inform each individual whom it asks to supply information, on the form which it uses to collect the information or on a separate form that can be retained by the individual of:
(1) The authority (whether granted by statute or Executive order of the President) which authorizes the solicitation of the information and whether disclosure of such information is mandatory or voluntary;
(2) The principal purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used;
(3) The routine uses which may be made of the information, as published pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section; and
(4) The effects on him or her, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information.
(d) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (k) of this section, the Inter-American Foundation will publish in the
Federal Register
at least annually a notice of the existence and character of its system of records. This notice will include:
(1) The name and location of the system or systems;
(2) The categories of individuals on whom records are maintained in the system or systems;
(3) The categories of records maintained in the system or systems;
(4) Each routine use of the records contained in the system or systems, including the categories of users and the purpose of such use;
(5) The policies and practices of the Inter-American Foundation regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention, and disposal of the records;
(6) The title and business address of the Inter-American Foundation official or officials responsible for the system or systems of records;
(7) The Inter-American Foundation procedures whereby an individual can be notified at his or her request if the system or systems of records contain a record pertaining to him or her;
(8) The Inter-American Foundation procedures whereby an individual can be notified at his or her request how he or she can gain access to any record pertaining to him or her contained in the system or systems of records, and how he or she can contest its content; and
(9) The categories of sources of records in the system or systems.
(e) All records used by the Inter-American Foundation in making any determination about any individual will be maintained with the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination.
(f) Before disseminating any record about any individual to any person other than an agency the Inter-American Foundation will make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely, and relevant for Inter-American Foundation purposes unless the dissemination is required pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552.
(g) The Inter-American Foundation will maintain no record describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained or unless pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.
(h) The Inter-American Foundation will make reasonable efforts to serve notice on an individual when any record on such individuals is made available to any person under compulsory legal process when such process becomes a matter of public record.
(i) The Inter-American Foundation will establish rules of conduct for persons involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any system of records, or in maintaining any record. Each such person will be instructed regarding such rules and the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a. The instruction will include any other rules and procedures adopted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a, and the penalties it provides for noncompliance.
(j) The Inter-American Foundation will establish appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to insure the security and confidentiality of records and to protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to their security or integrity which could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to any individual on whom information is maintained.
(k) At least 30 days prior to the publication of a notice in the
Federal Register
at least annually regarding the routine use of the records contained in the Inter-American Foundation system or systems of records including the categories of users and the purpose of such use, pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the Inter-American Foundation will also:
(1) Publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of any new use or intended use of the information in the system or systems; and
(2) Provide an opportunity for interested persons to submit written data, views, or arguments to the Inter-American Foundation.
§ 1003.5
Access to personal information from Inter-American Foundation records.
(a) The Inter-American Foundation will promulgate regulations, as necessary, to insure compliance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, developed in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, as applicable.
(b) Any individual will be notified upon request if any Inter-American Foundation system of records named contains a record pertaining to him or her. Such request must be in writing over the signature of the requester. The request must contain a reasonable description of the Inter-American Foundation system or systems of records meant, as described at least annually by notice published in the
Federal Register
describing the existence and character of the Inter-American Foundation's system or systems of records. The request should be made to the Executive Officer, Inter-American Foundation, 1515 Wilson Boulevard, Rosslyn, Virginia 22209. Personal contacts should normally be made during the regular duty hours of the office concerned, which are 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Identification of the individual requesting the information will be required consisting of name, signature, address, and claim, insurance or other identifying file number, if any, as a minimum.
(c) The department or staff office having jurisdiction over the records involved will establish appropriate disclosure procedures and will notify the
individual requesting disclosure of his or her record or information pertaining to him or her of the time, place and conditions under which the Inter-American Foundation will comply to the extent permitted by law and Inter-American Foundation regulation. Special procedures will be established by the department or staff office concerned governing the disclosure to an individual of medical records, including psychological records pertaining to him or her.
(d) The department or staff office having jurisdiction over the records involved will also establish procedures for reviewing a request from an individual concerning the amendment of any record or information pertaining to the individual for making a determination on the request, for an appeal within the Inter-American Foundation of an initial adverse Inter-American Foundation determination, and for whatever additional means may be necessary for each individual to be able to exercise fully his or her rights under 5 U.S.C. 552a.
(e) Fees to be charged, if any, to any individual for making copies of his or her record, excluding the cost of any search for and review of the record, will be as follows:
(1) Photocopy reproductions from all types of copying processes, each reproduction image, $0.05.
(2) Where the Inter-American Foundation undertakes to perform for a requester or for any other person services which are very clearly not required to be performed under section 552a, title 5, United States Code, either voluntarily or because such services are required by some other law (e.g., the formal certification of records as true copies, attestation under the seal of the Inter-American Foundation, etc.), the question of charging fees for such services will be determined by the official or designee authorized to release the information under § 1.556, in the light of the Federal user charge statute, 31 U.S.C. 483a, and any other applicable law.
§ 1003.6
Administrative review.
(a) Upon denial of a request, the responsible Inter-American Foundation official or designated employee will inform the requester in writing of the denial, cite the reason or reasons and the Inter-American Foundation regulations upon which the denial is based, and advise that the denial may be appealed to the Administrator.
(b) The final agency decision in such appeals will be made by the Administrator or Deputy Administrator.
§ 1003.7
Judicial review.
Any person may file a complaint against the Inter-American Foundation in the appropriate U.S. district court, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(g), whenever the Inter-American Foundation:
(a) Makes a determination not to amend an individual's record in accordance with his or her request, or fails to make such review in conformity with that section;
(b) Refuses to comply with an individual request;
(c) Fails to maintain any record concerning any individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is necessary to assure fairness in any determination relating to the qualifications, character, rights, or opportunities of, or benefits to the individual that may be made on the basis of such record, and consequently a determination is made which is adverse to the individual; or
(d) Fails to comply under any other provision of 5 U.S.C. 552a, or any Inter-American Foundation regulation promulgated thereunder, in such a way as to have an adverse effect on an individual.
§ 1003.8
Exemptions.
No Inter-American Foundation records system or systems as such are exempted from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a as permitted under certain conditions by 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) and (k).
§ 1003.9
Mailing lists.
An individual's name and address may not be sold or rented by the Inter-American Foundation unless such action is specifically authorized by law. This section does not require the withholding of names and addresses otherwise permitted to be made public.
§ 1003.10
Reports.
(a) The Administrator or designee will provide adequate advance notice to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget of any proposal to establish or alter any Inter-American Foundation system or systems of records, as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(o). This will permit an evaluation of the probable or potential effect of such proposal on the privacy and other personal or property rights of individuals or the disclosure of information relating to such individuals, and its effect on the preservation of the constitutional principles of federalism and separation of powers.
(b) If at any time an Inter-American Foundation system or systems of records is determined to be exempt from the application of 5 U.S.C. 552a in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) and (k), the number of records contained in such system or systems will be separately listed and reported to the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with the then prevailing guidelines and instructions of that agency.
Pt. 1004

# PART 1004—RULES FOR IMPLEMENTING OPEN MEETINGS WITHIN THE INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION
Sec.
1004.1
General policies.
1004.2
Definitions.
1004.3
Requirement of open meetings.
1004.4
Grounds on which meetings may be closed.
1004.5
Procedures for announcing meetings.
1004.6
Procedures for closing meetings.
1004.7
Reconsideration of opening or closing of meeting.
1004.8
Transcripts, recording of closed meeting.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
71 FR 63237, Oct. 30, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1004.1
General policies.
The Inter-American Foundation (IAF) will, in accordance with the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b, provide the public with the fullest practical information regarding its decisionmaking processes while protecting the rights of individuals and its ability to carry out its responsibilities.
§ 1004.2
Definitions.
The following definitions apply:
(a)
Agency
includes any executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation other establishment in the executive branch of the government (including the Executive Office of the President) or any independent regulatory agency, and is headed by a collegial body composed of two or more individual members, a majority of whom are appointed to such position by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, and any subdivision thereof authorized to act on behalf of the agency. The Inter-American Foundation is a government corporation headed by a nine-member Board of Directors, all of whom are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, and is therefore an “agency” under these terms.
(b)
Meeting
means the deliberation of this Board of Directors where such deliberation determines or results in the joint conduct or disposition of official IAF business, but does not include deliberations required or permitted by subsection 1004.6 or 1004.7.
(c)
Member
means an individual who belongs to the IAF Board of Directors.
(d)
Public Observation
means attendance at any meeting but does not include participation, or attempted participation, in such meeting in any matter.
§ 1004.3
Requirement of open meetings.
Members shall not jointly conduct or dispose of agency business other than in accordance with this section. Except as provided in § 1004.4 every portion of every meeting of the agency shall be open to public observation.
§ 1004.4
Grounds on which meetings may be closed.
The IAF shall open every portion of every meeting of the agency for public observation. Except in a case where the agency finds that the public interest requires otherwise, this requirement
does not apply where the agency determines that such portion or portions of its meeting or the disclosure of such information is likely to:
(a) Disclose matters that are:
(1) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense or foreign policy, and
(2) In fact, properly classified pursuant to such Executive order;
(b) Relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practice of the agency;
(c) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute, provided that such statute:
(1) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such manner as to have no discretion on the issue, or
(2) Establishes practical criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(d) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(e) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(f) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(g) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would:
(1) Interfere with enforcement proceedings,
(2) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial of an impartial adjudication,
(3) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy,
(4) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, information furnished by a confidential source,
(5) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or
(6) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(h) Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions;
(i) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action. This shall not apply in any instance where the IAF has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action or where the IAF is required by law to make such disclosure of its own initiative prior to taking final IAF action on such proposal;
(j) Specifically concern the IAF's issuance of subpoena, or the IAF's participation in a civil action or proceeding, an action in a foreign court or international tribunal, or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct, or disposition by the IAF of a particular case of formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in section 554 of this title or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing.

# Note to § 1004.4:
The requirements of §§ 1004.5 and 1004.6 shall not apply to any information pertaining to those meetings exempted under this section.
§ 1004.5
Procedures for announcing meetings.
(a) In the case of each meeting, the IAF shall make public, at least one week before the meeting, of the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open or closed to the public, and the name and phone number of the official designated by the IAF to respond to requests for information about the meeting. Such announcement shall be made unless a majority of the Board of Directors of the IAF determines by a recorded vote that the IAF requires that such a meeting be called at an earlier date, in which case the IAF shall make public announcement of the time, place and subject matter of such meeting and whether open or closed to the public, at the earliest practical time.
(b) Immediately following the public announcement, the IAF will submit notice for publication in the
Federal Register.
(c) The IAF shall also make public the announcement by other reasonable means, accessible to the public.
§ 1004.6
Procedures for closing meetings.
(a) The closing of a meeting or a portion of a meeting shall occur only when:
(1) A majority of the membership of the IAF Board votes to take such action. That vote shall determine whether or not any portion or portions of a meeting or portions of a series of meetings may be closed to public observation for any of the reasons provided in § 1004.4 and whether or not the public interest nevertheless requires that portion of the meeting or meetings remain open. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. The vote of each Board member participating in such vote shall be recorded and no proxies shall be allowed.
(2) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting requests that the IAF close such portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in § 1004.4 the IAF, upon request of any one of its Board members, shall take a recorded vote, whether to close such portion of the meeting.
(b) Within one day of any vote taken pursuant to this Section, the IAF shall make publicly available a written copy of such vote reflecting the vote of each member on the question and full written explanation of its action closing the entire or portion of the meeting together with a list of persons expecting to attend the meeting and their affiliation.
(c) The IAF shall, subject to change, announce the time, place and subject matter of the meeting at least 7 days before the meeting.
(d) For every closed meeting pursuant to § 1004.4, the General Counsel of the IAF shall publicly certify prior to a Board of Directors' vote on closing the meeting, that, in his or her opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting, and the persons present, shall be retained by the IAF.
§ 1004.7
Reconsideration of opening or closing of meeting.
The time or place of a Board meeting may be changed, without vote, following public announcement. The IAF will announce any such change at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of a meeting, or the determination of the agency to open or close a meeting, or portion of a meeting, to the public, may be changed only if a majority of the Board of Directors determines by a recorded vote that IAF business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible, and the IAF publicly announces such change and the vote of each member upon such change at the earliest practicable time.
§ 1004.8
Transcripts, recording of closed meetings.
(a) The IAF shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, except that in the case of a meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public pursuant to paragraph (d), (h), or (j) of § 1004.4, the IAF shall maintain either such a transcript or recording, or a set of minutes. Such records shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefore, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote (reflecting the vote of each member on the question). All documents considered in connection with any action shall be identified in such records.
(b) The IAF, after review by the General Counsel shall make promptly
available to the public, in a place easily accessible to the public, the transcript or electronic recording or minutes of the discussion of any time on the agenda, or any item of the testimony of any witness received at the Board meeting, except for such item or items of such discussion or testimony as the IAF determines to contain information which may be withheld under § 1004.4. Copies of such transcript, or a transcription of such recording disclosing the identity of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription. The IAF shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion or any IAF proceedings with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later.
Pt. 1005

# PART 1005—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION
Sec.
1005.101
Purpose.
1005.102
Application.
1005.103
Definitions.
1005.104-1005.109
[Reserved]
1005.110
Self-evaluation.
1005.111
Notice.
1005.112-1005.129
[Reserved]
1005.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
1005.131-1005.139
[Reserved]
1005.140
Employment.
1005.141-1005.148
[Reserved]
1005.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
1005.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
1005.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
1005.152-1005.159
[Reserved]
1005.160
Communications.
1005.161-1005.169
[Reserved]
1005.170
Compliance procedures.
1005.171-1005.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
51 FR 22890, 22896, June 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1005.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 1005.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 1005.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alocoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, a handicapped person who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency.
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can acheive the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 1005.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 1005.104-1005.109
[Reserved]
§ 1005.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by August 24, 1987, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 1005.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 1005.112-1005.129
[Reserved]
§ 1005.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangments, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination
under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 1005.131-1005.139
[Reserved]
§ 1005.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 1005.141-1005.148
[Reserved]
§ 1005.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1005.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 1005.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1005.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens
but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 1005.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to handicapped persons. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 1005.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide handicapped persons into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by October 21, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by August 22, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by February 23, 1987, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 1005.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 1005.152-1005.159
[Reserved]
§ 1005.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf person (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and adminstrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1005.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 1005.161-1005.169
[Reserved]
§ 1005.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The General Counsel, Inter-American Foundation, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to 901 N. Stuart St., 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 1005.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 22890, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22891, June 23, 1986; 71 FR 63236, Oct. 30, 2006]
§§ 1005.171-1005.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 1006

# PART 1006—GOVERNMENTWIDE DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION (NONPROCUREMENT)
Sec.
1006.25
How is this part organized?
1006.50
How is this part written?
1006.75
Do terms in this part have special meanings?

# Subpart A—General
1006.100
What does this part do?
1006.105
Does this part apply to me?
1006.110
What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?
1006.115
How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?
1006.120
May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
1006.125
Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?
1006.130
Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?
1006.135
May the Inter-American Foundation exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?
1006.140
How do I know if a person is excluded?
1006.145
Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1006.200
What is a covered transaction?
1006.205
Why is it important to know if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?
1006.210
Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?
1006.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
1006.220
Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?
1006.225
How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions

# Doing Business With Other Persons
1006.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?
1006.305
May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
1006.310
What Must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?
1006.315
May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?
1006.320
I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?
1006.325
What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?
1006.330
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants
1006.335
What information must I provide before a covered transaction with the Inter-American Foundation?
1006.340
If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 1006.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?
1006.345
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 1006.335?
1006.350
What must I do if I learn of the information required under § 1006.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the Inter-American Foundation?

# Disclosing Information—Lower Tier Participants
1006.355
What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?
1006.360
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 1006.355?
1006.365
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 1006.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Inter-American Foundation Officials Regarding Transactions
1006.400
May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
1006.405
May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?
1006.410
May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?
1006.415
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?
1006.420
May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?
1006.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
1006.430
How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
1006.435
What must I require of a primary tier participant?
1006.440
What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?
1006.445
What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?
1006.450
What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 1006.335?
1006.455
What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 1006.355 to the next higher tier?

# Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System
1006.500
What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?
1006.505
Who uses the EPLS?
1006.510
Who maintains the EPLS?
1006.515
What specific information is in the EPLS?
1006.520
Who places the information into the EPLS?
1006.525
Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?
1006.530
Where can I find the EPLS?

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
1006.600
How do suspension and debarment actions start?
1006.605
How does suspension differ from debarment?
1006.610
What procedures does the Inter-American Foundation use in suspension and debarment actions?
1006.615
How does the Inter-American Foundation notify a person of a suspension and debarment action?
1006.620
Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?
1006.625
What is the scope of a suspension or debarment action?
1006.630
May the Inter-American Foundation impute the conduct of one person to another?
1006.635
May the Inter-American Foundation settle a debarment or suspension action?
1006.640
May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?
1006.645
Do other Federal agencies know if the Inter-American Foundation agrees to a voluntary exclusion?

# Subpart G—Suspension
1006.700
When may the suspending official issue a suspension?
1006.705
What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?
1006.710
When does a suspension take effect?
1006.715
What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?
1006.720
How may I contest a suspension?
1006.725
How much time do I have to contest a suspension?
1006.730
What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?
1006.735
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?
1006.740
Are suspension proceedings formal?
1006.745
How is fact-finding conducted?
1006.750
What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?
1006.755
When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?
1006.760
How long may my suspension last?

# Subpart H—Debarment
1006.800
What are the causes for debarment?
1006.805
What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?
1006.810
When does a debarment take effect?
1006.815
How may I contest a proposed debarment?
1006.820
How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?
1006.825
What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?
1006.830
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the fact on which the proposed debarment is based?
1006.835
Are debarment proceedings formal?
1006.840
How is fact-finding conducted?
1006.845
What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?
1006.850
What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?
1006.855
Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?
1006.860
What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?
1006.865
How long may my debarment last?
1006.870
When do I know if the debarring official debars me?
1006.875
May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?
1006.880
What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?
1006.885
May the debarring official extend a debarment?

# Subpart I—Definitions
1006.900
Adequate evidence.
1006.905
Affiliate.
1006.910
Agency.
1006.915
Agent or representative.
1006.920
Civil judgment.
1006.925
Conviction.
1006.930
Debarment.
1006.935
Debarring official.
1006.940
Disqualified.
1006.945
Excluded or exclusion.
1006.950
Excluded Parties List System.
1006.955
Indictment.
1006.960
Ineligible or ineligibility.
1006.965
Legal proceedings.
1006.970
Nonprocurement transaction.
1006.975
Notice.
1006.980
Participant.
1006.985
Person.
1006.990
Preponderance of the evidence.
1006.995
Principal.
1006.1000
Respondent.
1006.1005
State.
1006.1010
Suspending official.
1006.1015
Suspension.
1006.1020
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded
Subpart J [Reserved]
Appendix to Part 1006—Covered Transactions

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note); E.O. 12549, 3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189; E.O. 12689, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235.
§ 1006.25
How is this part organized?
(a) This part is subdivided into ten subparts. Each subpart contains information related to a broad topic or specific audience with special responsibilities, as shown in the following table:
In subpart . . .
You will find provisions related to . . .
A
general information about this rule.
B
the types of Inter-American Foundation transactions that are covered by the Governmentwide nonprocurement suspension and debarment system.
C
the responsibilities of persons who participate in covered transactions.
D
the responsibilities of Inter-American Foundation officials who are authorized to enter into covered transactions.
E
the responsibilities of Federal agencies for the
Excluded Parties List System
(Disseminated by the General Services Administration).
F
the general principles governing suspension, debarment, voluntary exclusion and settlement.
G
suspension actions.
H
debarment actions.
I
definitions of terms used in this part.
J
[Reserved]
(b) The following table shows which subparts may be of special interest to you, depending on who you are:
If you are . . .
See subpart(s) . . .
(1) a participant or principal in a nonprocurement transaction
A, B, C, and I.
(2) a respondent in a suspension action
A, B, F, G and I.
(3) a respondent in a debarment action
A, B, F, H and I.
(4) a suspending official
A, B, D, E, F, G and I.
(5) a debarring official
A, B, D, E, F, H and I.
(6) a (n) Inter-American Foundation official authorized to enter into a covered transaction
A, B, D, E and I.
(7) Reserved
J.
§ 1006.50
How is this part written?
(a) This part uses a “plain language” format to make it easier for the general public and business community to use. The section headings and text, often in the form of questions and answers, must be read together.
(b) Pronouns used within this part, such as “I” and “you,” change from subpart to subpart depending on the audience being addressed. The pronoun “we” always is the Inter-American Foundation.
(c) The “Covered Transactions” diagram in the appendix to this part shows the levels or “tiers” at which the Inter-American Foundation enforces an exclusion under this part.
§ 1006.75
Do terms in this part have special meanings?
This part uses terms throughout the text that have special meaning. Those terms are defined in Subpart I of this part. For example, three important terms are—
(a)
Exclusion or excluded,
which refers only to discretionary actions taken by a suspending or debarring official under this part or the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4);
(b)
Disqualification or disqualified,
which refers to prohibitions under specific statutes, executive orders (other than Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689), or other authorities. Disqualifications frequently are not subject to the discretion of an agency official, may have a different scope than exclusions, or have special conditions that apply to the disqualification; and
(c)
Ineligibility or ineligible,
which generally refers to a person who is either excluded or disqualified.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1006.100
What does this part do?
This part adopts a governmentwide system of debarment and suspension for Inter-American Foundation nonprocurement activities. It also provides for reciprocal exclusion of persons who have been excluded under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and provides for the consolidated listing of all persons who are excluded, or disqualified by statute, executive order, or other legal authority. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 1006.105
Does this part apply to me?
Portions of this part (see table at § 1006.25(b)) apply to you if you are a(n)—
(a) Person who has been, is, or may reasonably be expected to be, a participant or principal in a covered transaction;
(b) Respondent (a person against whom the Inter-American Foundation has initiated a debarment or suspension action);
(c) Inter-American Foundation debarring or suspending official; or
(d) Inter-American Foundation official who is authorized to enter into covered transactions with non-Federal parties.
§ 1006.110
What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?
(a) To protect the public interest, the Federal Government ensures the integrity of Federal programs by conducting business only with responsible persons.
(b) A Federal agency uses the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system to exclude from Federal programs persons who are not presently responsible.
(c) An exclusion is a serious action that a Federal agency may take only
to protect the public interest. A Federal agency may not exclude a person or commodity for the purposes of punishment.
§ 1006.115
How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?
With the exceptions stated in §§ 1006.120, 1006.315, and 1006.420, a person who is excluded by the Inter-American Foundation or any other Federal agency may not:
(a) Be a participant in a(n) Inter-American Foundation transaction that is a covered transaction under subpart B of this part;
(b) Be a participant in a transaction of any other Federal agency that is a covered transaction under that agency's regulation for debarment and suspension; or
(c) Act as a principal of a person participating in one of those covered transactions.
§ 1006.120
May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
(a) The Inter-American Foundation Debarring Official may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the Inter-American Foundation Debarring Official grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the governmentwide policy in Executive Order 12549.
(b) An exception granted by one agency for an excluded person does not extend to the covered transactions of another agency.
§ 1006.125
Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?
If any Federal agency excludes a person under its nonprocurement common rule on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in Federal procurement transactions under the FAR. Therefore, an exclusion under this part has reciprocal effect in Federal procurement transactions.
§ 1006.130
Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?
If any Federal agency excludes a person under the FAR on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in nonprocurement covered transactions under this part. Therefore, an exclusion under the FAR has reciprocal effect in Federal nonprocurement transactions.
§ 1006.135
May the Inter-American Foundation exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?
Given a cause that justifies an exclusion under this part, we may exclude any person who has been involved, is currently involved, or may reasonably be expected to be involved in a covered transaction.
§ 1006.140
How do I know if a person is excluded?
Check the
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
to determine whether a person is excluded. The General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS
and makes it available, as detailed in subpart E of this part. When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.
§ 1006.145
Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?
Except if provided for in Subpart J of this part, this part—
(a) Addresses disqualified persons only to—
(1) Provide for their inclusion in the
EPLS;
and
(2) State responsibilities of Federal agencies and participants to check for disqualified persons before entering into covered transactions.
(b) Does not specify the—
(1) Inter-American Foundation transactions for which a disqualified person is ineligible. Those transactions vary on a case-by-case basis, because they depend on the language of the specific
statute, Executive order, or regulation that caused the disqualification;
(2) Entities to which the disqualification applies; or
(3) Process that the agency uses to disqualify a person. Unlike exclusion, disqualification is frequently not a discretionary action that a Federal agency takes.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1006.200
What is a covered transaction?
A covered transaction is a nonprocurement or procurement transaction that is subject to the prohibitions of this part. It may be a transaction at—
(a) The primary tier, between a Federal agency and a person (see appendix to this part); or
(b) A lower tier, between a participant in a covered transaction and another person.
§ 1006.205
Why is it important if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?
The importance of a covered transaction depends upon who you are.
(a) As a participant in the transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in Subpart C of this part. Those include responsibilities to the person or Federal agency at the next higher tier from whom you received the transaction, if any. They also include responsibilities if you subsequently enter into other covered transactions with persons at the next lower tier.
(b) As a Federal official who enters into a primary tier transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in subpart D of this part.
(c) As an excluded person, you may not be a participant or principal in the transaction unless—
(1) The person who entered into the transaction with you allows you to continue your involvement in a transaction that predates your exclusion, as permitted under § 1006.310 or § 1006.415; or
(2) A(n) Inter-American Foundation official obtains an exception from the Inter-American Foundation Debarring Official to allow you to be involved in the transaction, as permitted under § 1006.120.
§ 1006.210
Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?
All nonprocurement transactions, as defined in § 1006.970, are covered transactions unless listed in § 1006.215. (See appendix to this part.)
§ 1006.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
The following types of nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions:
(a) A direct award to—
(1) A foreign government or foreign governmental entity;
(2) A public international organization;
(3) An entity owned (in whole or in part) or controlled by a foreign government; or
(4) Any other entity consisting wholly or partially of one or more foreign governments or foreign governmental entities.
(b) A benefit to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted). For example, if a person receives social security benefits under the Supplemental Security Income provisions of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1301
et seq.,
those benefits are not covered transactions and, therefore, are not affected if the person is excluded.
(c) Federal employment.
(d) A transaction that the Inter-American Foundation needs to respond to a national or agency-recognized emergency or disaster.
(e) A permit, license, certificate, or similar instrument issued as a means to regulate public health, safety, or the environment, unless the Inter-American Foundation specifically designates it to be a covered transaction.
(f) An incidental benefit that results from ordinary governmental operations.
(g) Any other transaction if the application of an exclusion to the transaction is prohibited by law.
§ 1006.220
Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?
(a) Covered transactions under this part—
(1) Do not include any procurement contracts awarded directly by a Federal agency; but
(2) Do include some procurement contracts awarded by non-Federal participants in nonprocurement covered transactions (see appendix to this part).
(b) Specifically, a contract for goods or services is a covered transaction if any of the following applies:
(1) The contract is awarded by a participant in a nonprocurement transaction that is covered under § 1006.210, and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000.
(2) The contract requires the consent of a(n) Inter-American Foundation official. In that case, the contract, regardless of the amount, always is a covered transaction, and it does not matter who awarded it. For example, it could be a subcontract awarded by a contractor at a tier below a nonprocurement transaction, as shown in the appendix to this part.
(3) The contract is for federally-required audit services.
§ 1006.225
How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?
As a participant in a transaction, you will know that it is a covered transaction because the agency regulations governing the transaction, the appropriate agency official, or participant at the next higher tier who enters into the transaction with you, will tell you that you must comply with applicable portions of this part.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions

# Doing Business With Other Persons
§ 1006.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?
When you enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier, you must verify that the person with whom you intend to do business is not excluded or disqualified. You do this by:
(a) Checking the
EPLS;
or
(b) Collecting a certification from that person if allowed by this rule; or
(c) Adding a clause or condition to the covered transaction with that person.
§ 1006.305
May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
(a) You as a participant may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person, unless the Inter-American Foundation grants an exception under § 1006.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you have obtained an exception under the disqualifying statute, Executive order, or regulation.
§ 1006.310
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?
(a) You as a participant may continue covered transactions with an excluded person if the transactions were in existence when the agency excluded the person. However, you are not required to continue the transactions, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, unless the Inter-American Foundation grants an exception under § 1006.120.
§ 1006.315
May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?
(a) You as a participant may continue to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction if you were using the services of that person in the transaction before the person was excluded. However, you are not required to continue
using that person's services as a principal. You should make a decision about whether to discontinue that person's services only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not begin to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction unless the Inter-American Foundation grants an exception under § 1006.120.
§ 1006.320
Must I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?
Yes, you as a participant are responsible for determining whether any of your principals of your covered transactions is excluded or disqualified from participating in the transaction. You may decide the method and frequency by which you do so. You may, but you are not required to, check the
EPLS.
§ 1006.325
What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?
If as a participant you knowingly do business with an excluded person, we may disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, debar or suspend you, or take other remedies as appropriate.
§ 1006.330
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
Before entering into a covered transaction with a participant at the next lower tier, you must require that participant to—
(a) Comply with this subpart as a condition of participation in the transaction. You may do so using any method(s), unless § 1006.440 requires you to use specific methods.
(b) Pass the requirement to comply with this subpart to each person with whom the participant enters into a covered transaction at the next lower tier.

# Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants
§ 1006.335
What information must I provide before entering into a covered transaction with the Inter-American Foundation?
Before you enter into a covered transaction at the primary tier, you as the participant must notify the Inter-American Foundation office that is entering into the transaction with you, if you know that you or any of the principals for that covered transaction:
(a) Are presently excluded or disqualified;
(b) Have been convicted within the preceding three years of any of the offenses listed in § 1006.800(a) or had a civil judgment rendered against you for one of those offenses within that time period;
(c) Are presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses listed in § 1006.800(a); or
(d) Have had one or more public transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated within the preceding three years for cause or default.
§ 1006.340
If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 1006.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?
As a primary tier participant, your disclosure of unfavorable information about yourself or a principal under § 1006.335 will not necessarily cause us to deny your participation in the covered transaction. We will consider the information when we determine whether to enter into the covered transaction. We also will consider any additional information or explanation that you elect to submit with the disclosed information.
§ 1006.345
What happens if I fail to disclose information required under § 1006.335?
If we later determine that you failed to disclose information under § 1006.335 that you knew at the time you entered into the covered transaction, we may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 1006.350
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 1006.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the Inter-American Foundation?
At any time after you enter into a covered transaction, you must give immediate written notice to the Inter-American Foundation office with which you entered into the transaction if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 1006.335; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 1006.335.

# Disclosing Information—Lower Tier Participants
§ 1006.355
What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?
Before you enter into a covered transaction with a person at the next higher tier, you as a lower tier participant must notify that person if you know that you or any of the principals are presently excluded or disqualified.
§ 1006.360
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 1006.355?
If we later determine that you failed to tell the person at the higher tier that you were excluded or disqualified at the time you entered into the covered transaction with that person, we may pursue any available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 1006.365
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 1006.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?
At any time after you enter into a lower tier covered transaction with a person at a higher tier, you must provide immediate written notice to that person if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 1006.355; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 1006.355.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Inter-American Foundation Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1006.400
May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
(a) You as an agency official may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person unless you obtain an exception under § 1006.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.
§ 1006.405
May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?
As an agency official, you may not enter into a covered transaction with a participant if you know that a principal of the transaction is excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 1006.120.
§ 1006.410
May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?
After entering into a covered transaction with a participant, you as an agency official may not approve a participant's use of an excluded person as a principal under that transaction, unless you obtain an exception under § 1006.120.
§ 1006.415
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?
(a) You as an agency official may continue covered transactions with an excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, if the transactions were in existence when the person was excluded. You are not required to continue the transactions,
however, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, unless you obtain an exception under § 1006.120.
§ 1006.420
May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?
If a transaction at a lower tier is subject to your approval, you as an agency official may not approve—
(a) A covered transaction with a person who is currently excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 1006.120; or
(b) A transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.
§ 1006.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
As an agency official, you must check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified before you—
(a) Enter into a primary tier covered transaction;
(b) Approve a principal in a primary tier covered transaction;
(c) Approve a lower tier participant if agency approval of the lower tier participant is required; or
(d) Approve a principal in connection with a lower tier transaction if agency approval of the principal is required.
§ 1006.430
How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
You check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified in two ways:
(a) You as an agency official must check the
EPLS
when you take any action listed in § 1006.425.
(b) You must review information that a participant gives you, as required by § 1006.335, about its status or the status of the principals of a transaction.
§ 1006.435
What must I require of a primary tier participant?
You as an agency official must require each participant in a primary tier covered transaction to—
(a) Comply with subpart C of this part as a condition of participation in the transaction; and
(b) Communicate the requirement to comply with Subpart C of this part to persons at the next lower tier with whom the primary tier participant enters into covered transactions.
§ 1006.440
What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?
To communicate the requirements to participants, you must include a term or condition in the transaction requiring the participant's compliance with Subpart C of this part and requiring them to include a similar term or condition in lower tier covered transactions.
§ 1006.445
What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?
If a participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person, you as an agency official may refer the matter for suspension and debarment consideration. You may also disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, or take any other appropriate remedy.
§ 1006.450
What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 1006.335?
If you as an agency official determine that a participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 1006.335, at the time it entered into a covered transaction with you, you may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 1006.455
What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 1006.355 to the next higher tier?
If you as an agency official determine that a lower tier participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 1006.355, at the time it entered into a covered transaction with a participant at the next higher tier, you may pursue any remedies available to you, including the initiation of a suspension or debarment action.

# Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System
§ 1006.500
What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?
The
EPLS
is a widely available source of the most current information about persons who are excluded or disqualified from covered transactions.
§ 1006.505
Who uses the EPLS?
(a) Federal agency officials use the
EPLS
to determine whether to enter into a transaction with a person, as required under § 1006.430.
(b) Participants also may, but are not required to, use the
EPLS
to determine if—
(1) Principals of their transactions are excluded or disqualified, as required under § 1006.320; or
(2) Persons with whom they are entering into covered transactions at the next lower tier are excluded or disqualified.
(c) The
EPLS
is available to the general public.
§ 1006.510
Who maintains the EPLS?
In accordance with the OMB guidelines, the General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS.
When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.
§ 1006.515
What specific information is in the EPLS?
(a) At a minimum, the
EPLS
indicates—
(1) The full name (where available) and address of each excluded or disqualified person, in alphabetical order, with cross references if more than one name is involved in a single action;
(2) The type of action;
(3) The cause for the action;
(4) The scope of the action;
(5) Any termination date for the action;
(6) The agency and name and telephone number of the agency point of contact for the action; and
(7) The Dun and Bradstreet Number (DUNS), or other similar code approved by the GSA, of the excluded or disqualified person, if available.
(b)(1) The database for the
EPLS
includes a field for the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (the social security number (SSN) for an individual) of an excluded or disqualified person.
(2) Agencies disclose the SSN of an individual to verify the identity of an individual, only if permitted under the Privacy Act of 1974 and, if appropriate, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, as codified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a).
§ 1006.520
Who places the information into the EPLS?
Federal officials who take actions to exclude persons under this part or officials who are responsible for identifying disqualified persons must enter the following information about those persons into the
EPLS
:
(a) Information required by § 1006.515(a);
(b) The Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of the excluded or disqualified person, including the social security number (SSN) for an individual, if the number is available and may be disclosed under law;
(c) Information about an excluded or disqualified person, generally within five working days, after—
(1) Taking an exclusion action;
(2) Modifying or rescinding an exclusion action;
(3) Finding that a person is disqualified; or
(4) Finding that there has been a change in the status of a person who is listed as disqualified.
§ 1006.525
Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?
If you have questions about a person in the
EPLS,
ask the point of contact for the Federal agency that placed the person's name into the
EPLS.
You may find the agency point of contact from the
EPLS.
§ 1006.530
Where can I find the EPLS?
(a) You may access the
EPLS
through the Internet, currently at
http://epls.arnet.gov.
(b) As of November 26, 2003, you may also subscribe to a printed version. However, we anticipate discontinuing the printed version. Until it is discontinued, you may obtain the printed version by purchasing a yearly subscription from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, or by calling the Government Printing Office Inquiry and Order Desk at (202) 783-3238.

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
§ 1006.600
How do suspension and debarment actions start?
When we receive information from any source concerning a cause for suspension or debarment, we will promptly report and investigate it. We refer the question of whether to suspend or debar you to our suspending or debarring official for consideration, if appropriate.
§ 1006.605
How does suspension differ from debarment?
Suspension differs from debarment in that—
A suspending official . . .
A debarring official . . .
(a) Imposes suspension as a temporary status of ineligibility for procurement and nonprocurement transactions, pending completion of an investigation or legal proceedings
Imposes debarment for a specified period as a final determination that a person is not presently responsible.
(b) Must—
(1) Have
adequate evidence
that there may be a cause for debarment of a person; and
(2) Conclude that
immediate action
is necessary to protect the Federal interest
Must conclude, based on a
preponderance of the evidence,
that the person has engaged in conduct that warrants debarment.
(c) Usually imposes the suspension
first,
and then promptly notifies the suspended person, giving the person an opportunity to contest the suspension and have it lifted
Imposes debarment
after
giving the respondent notice of the action and an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.
§ 1006.610
What procedures does the Inter-American Foundation use in suspension and debarment actions?
In deciding whether to suspend or debar you, we handle the actions as informally as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness.
(a) For suspension actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart G of this part.
(b) For debarment actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart H of this part.
§ 1006.615
How does the Inter-American Foundation notify a person of a suspension or debarment action?
(a) The suspending or debarring official sends a written notice to the last known street address, facsimile number, or e-mail address of—
(1) You or your identified counsel; or
(2) Your agent for service of process, or any of your partners, officers, directors, owners, or joint venturers.
(b) The notice is effective if sent to any of these persons.
§ 1006.620
Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?
Yes, when more than one Federal agency has an interest in a suspension or debarment, the agencies may consider designating one agency as the lead agency for making the decision. Agencies are encouraged to establish methods and procedures for coordinating their suspension and debarment actions.
§ 1006.625
What is the scope of a suspension or debarment?
If you are suspended or debarred, the suspension or debarment is effective as follows:
(a) Your suspension or debarment constitutes suspension or debarment of all of your divisions and other organizational elements from all covered transactions, unless the suspension or debarment decision is limited—
(1) By its terms to one or more specifically identified individuals, divisions, or other organizational elements; or
(2) To specific types of transactions.
(b) Any affiliate of a participant may be included in a suspension or debarment action if the suspending or debarring official—
(1) Officially names the affiliate in the notice; and
(2) Gives the affiliate an opportunity to contest the action.
§ 1006.630
May the Inter-American Foundation impute conduct of one person to another?
For purposes of actions taken under this rule, we may impute conduct as follows:
(a)
Conduct imputed from an individual to an organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with an organization, to that organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with the individual's performance of duties for or on behalf of that organization, or with the organization's knowledge, approval or acquiescence. The organization's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
(b)
Conduct imputed from an organization to an individual, or between individuals.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any organization to an individual, or from one individual to another individual, if the individual to whom the improper conduct is imputed either participated in, had knowledge of, or reason to know of the improper conduct.
(c)
Conduct imputed from one organization to another organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of one organization to another organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with a partnership, joint venture, joint application, association or similar arrangement, or when the organization to whom the improper conduct is imputed has the power to direct, manage, control or influence the activities of the organization responsible for the improper conduct. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
§ 1006.635
May the Inter-American Foundation settle a debarment or suspension action?
Yes, we may settle a debarment or suspension action at any time if it is in the best interest of the Federal Government.
§ 1006.640
May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?
Yes, if we enter into a settlement with you in which you agree to be excluded, it is called a voluntary exclusion and has governmentwide effect.
§ 1006.645
Do other Federal agencies know if the Inter-American Foundation agrees to a voluntary exclusion?
(a) Yes, we enter information regarding a voluntary exclusion into the
EPLS.
(b) Also, any agency or person may contact us to find out the details of a voluntary exclusion.

# Subpart G—Suspension
§ 1006.700
When may the suspending official issue a suspension?
Suspension is a serious action. Using the procedures of this subpart and subpart F of this part, the suspending official may impose suspension only when that official determines that—
(a) There exists an indictment for, or other adequate evidence to suspect, an offense listed under § 1006.800(a), or
(b) There exists adequate evidence to suspect any other cause for debarment listed under § 1006.800(b) through (d); and
(c) Immediate action is necessary to protect the public interest.
§ 1006.705
What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?
(a) In determining the adequacy of the evidence to support the suspension, the suspending official considers how much information is available, how credible it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations are corroborated, and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as a result. During this assessment, the suspending official may examine the basic documents, including grants, cooperative agreements, loan authorizations, contracts, and other relevant documents.
(b) An indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other official findings by Federal, State, or local bodies that determine factual and/or legal matters, constitutes adequate evidence for purposes of suspension actions.
(c) In deciding whether immediate action is needed to protect the public interest, the suspending official has wide discretion. For example, the suspending official may infer the necessity for immediate action to protect the public interest either from the nature of the circumstances giving rise to a cause for suspension or from potential business relationships or involvement with a program of the Federal Government.
§ 1006.710
When does a suspension take effect?
A suspension is effective when the suspending official signs the decision to suspend.
§ 1006.715
What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?
After deciding to suspend you, the suspending official promptly sends you a Notice of Suspension advising you—
(a) That you have been suspended;
(b) That your suspension is based on—
(1) An indictment;
(2) A conviction;
(3) Other adequate evidence that you have committed irregularities which seriously reflect on the propriety of further Federal Government dealings with you; or
(4) Conduct of another person that has been imputed to you, or your affiliation with a suspended or debarred person;
(c) Of any other irregularities in terms sufficient to put you on notice without disclosing the Federal Government's evidence;
(d) Of the cause(s) upon which we relied under § 1006.700 for imposing suspension;
(e) That your suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or resulting legal or debarment proceedings;
(f) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, Subpart F of this part, and any other Inter-American Foundation procedures governing suspension decision making; and
(g) Of the governmentwide effect of your suspension from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
§ 1006.720
How may I contest a suspension?
If you as a respondent wish to contest a suspension, you or your representative must provide the suspending official with information in opposition to the suspension. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.
§ 1006.725
How much time do I have to contest a suspension?
(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make rrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the suspending official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Suspension.
(b) We consider the notice to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.
§ 1006.730
What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?
(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the suspending official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Suspension. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, state, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Suspension that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the Inter-American Foundation may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.
§ 1006.735
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?
(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) Your suspension is based upon an indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other finding by a Federal, State, or local body for which an opportunity to contest the facts was provided;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Suspension;
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the suspension are not factual in nature, or are not material to the suspending official's initial decision to suspend, or the official's decision whether to continue the suspension; or
(4) On the basis of advice from the Department of Justice, an office of the United States Attorney, a State attorney general's office, or a State or local prosecutor's office, that substantial interests of the government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced by conducting fact-finding.
(b) You will have an opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the suspending official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.
§ 1006.740
Are suspension proceedings formal?
(a) Suspension proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The suspending official may use flexible procedures to allow you to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the suspending official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base a final suspension decision.
(b) You as a respondent or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the suspending official to consider.
§ 1006.745
How is fact-finding conducted?
(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the Inter-American Foundation agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.
§ 1006.750
What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?
(a) The suspending official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the suspending official's initial decision to suspend you;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or opposition to, the suspension; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(b) The suspending official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any resulting findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
§ 1006.755
When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?
The suspending official must make a written decision whether to continue, modify, or terminate your suspension within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the suspending official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The suspending official may extend that period for good cause.
§ 1006.760
How long may my suspension last?
(a) If legal or debarment proceedings are initiated at the time of, or during your suspension, the suspension may continue until the conclusion of those proceedings. However, if proceedings are not initiated, a suspension may not exceed 12 months.
(b) The suspending official may extend the 12 month limit under paragraph (a) of this section for an additional 6 months if an office of a U.S. Assistant Attorney General, U.S. Attorney, or other responsible prosecuting official requests an extension in writing. In no event may a suspension exceed 18 months without initiating proceedings under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The suspending official must notify the appropriate officials under paragraph (b) of this section of an impending termination of a suspension at least 30 days before the 12 month period expires to allow the officials an opportunity to request an extension.

# Subpart H—Debarment
§ 1006.800
What are the causes for debarment?
We may debar a person for—
(a) Conviction of or civil judgment for—
(1) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public or private agreement or transaction;
(2) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes, including those proscribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of customers between competitors, and bid rigging;
(3) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, receiving stolen property, making false claims, or obstruction of justice; or
(4) Commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects your present responsibility;
(b) Violation of the terms of a public agreement or transaction so serious as to affect the integrity of an agency program, such as—
(1) A willful failure to perform in accordance with the terms of one or more public agreements or transactions;
(2) A history of failure to perform or of unsatisfactory performance of one or more public agreements or transactions; or
(3) A willful violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction;
(c) Any of the following causes:
(1) A nonprocurement debarment by any Federal agency taken before October 1, 1988, or a procurement debarment by any Federal agency taken pursuant to 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, before August 25, 1995;
(2) Knowingly doing business with an ineligible person, except as permitted under § 1006.120;
(3) Failure to pay a single substantial debt, or a number of outstanding debts (including disallowed costs and overpayments, but not including sums owed the Federal Government under the Internal Revenue Code) owed to any Federal agency or instrumentality, provided the debt is uncontested by the debtor or, if contested, provided that the debtor's legal and administrative remedies have been exhausted;
(4) Violation of a material provision of a voluntary exclusion agreement entered into under § 1006.640 or of any settlement of a debarment or suspension action; or
(5) Violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701); or
(d) Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects your present responsibility.
§ 1006.805
What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?
After consideration of the causes in § 1006.800 of this subpart, if the debarring official proposes to debar you, the official sends you a Notice of Proposed Debarment, pursuant to § 1006.615, advising you—
(a) That the debarring official is considering debarring you;
(b) Of the reasons for proposing to debar you in terms sufficient to put you on notice of the conduct or transactions upon which the proposed debarment is based;
(c) Of the cause(s) under § 1006.800 upon which the debarring official relied for proposing your debarment;
(d) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, Subpart F of this part, and any other Inter-American Foundation procedures governing debarment; and
(e) Of the governmentwide effect of a debarment from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
§ 1006.810
When does a debarment take effect?
